                               Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR00001930



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (IDA-H1960 and IDA-44230)



                                 ON A

                                GRANT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.5 MILLION
                     (US$ 60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  FOR

              EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                 AND

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.1 MILLION
                     (US$ 10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  FOR

    ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
                            PROJECT

                                TO THE

            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                           December 19, 2011



Human Development Sector
South Asia Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2011)

                         Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupees (LKR)
                                 LKR 100.00 = US$ 0.91
                                 US$ 1.00 = LKR 109.50
                                  XDR 1.00 = US$ 1.60

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 - December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asian Development Bank                     MoE      Ministry of Education
BMZ     German Federal Ministry for Economic       NEREC    National Education Research and
        Cooperation and Development                         Evaluation Center
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                NIE      National Institute of Education
DFID    Department for International Development   PAD      Project Appraisal Document
DPL     Development Policy Lending                 PDO      Project Development Objective
DPs     Development Partners                       PEAs     Provincial Education Authorities
EMIS    Education Management Information           PEQETS   Public Expenditure and Quality
        System                                              Education Tracking System
ESDFP   Education Sector Development Framework     PSI      Program for School Improvement
        and Program
ESDP    Education Sector Development Project       QER      Quality Enhancement Review
FC      Finance Commission                         SIDA     Swedish International Development
                                                            Cooperation Agency
GEP2    Second General Education Credit            SIL      Specific Investment Loan
GOSL    Government of Sri Lanka                    SLIDA    Sri Lanka Institute of Development
                                                            Administration
HRD     Human Resource Development                 SWAp     Sector Wide Approach
HIES    Household Income and Expenditure Survey    TETD     Teacher Education and Teacher
                                                            Deployment Credit
IDA     International Development Association      TIMs     Teacher Instructional Manuals
ISAs    In-Service Advisors                        TSU      Technical Support Unit
JBIC    Japan Bank for International Cooperation   UNICEF   The United Nations Children's Fund
JICA    Japan International Cooperation Agency

                         Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                       Country Director: Diarietou Gaye
                        Sector Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
                        Sector Manager: Amit Dar
                   Project Team Leader: Harsha Aturupane
                      ICR Team Leader: Hiroshi Saeki

                   ICR Team Members: Deepa Sankar, Upul Sonnadara, and Alejandro Welch
                                           SRI LANKA
                                    EDUCATION SECTOR REPORT




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Theme ......................................................................................... 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 41
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 44
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 46
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 46
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 47
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 50
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
  MAP IBRD 33485




                                                              i
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Sri Lanka Education
Country:               Sri Lanka                Project Name:             Sector Development
                                                                          Project
Project ID:            P084580                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44230,IDA-H1960
ICR Date:              12/09/2011               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                          SRI LANKA
Original Total
                       XDR 41.50M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 47.33M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        XDR 47.60M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
 The Finance Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date           Process               Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/29/2004    Effectiveness:              02/21/2006        02/21/2006
Appraisal:            09/19/2005    Restructuring(s):                             05/06/2008
Approval:             12/15/2005    Mid-term Review:            12/31/2008        10/10/2008
                                    Closing:                    06/30/2011        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                      Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                               ii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                                     6                    6
General public administration sector                                    6                    6
Primary education                                                      45                   45
Secondary education                                                    35                   35
Tertiary education                                                      8                    8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                      100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Diarietou Gaye                        Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:            Amit Dar                              Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:       Harsha Aturupane                      Harsha Aturupane
ICR Team Leader:           Hiroshi Saeki
ICR Primary Author:        Hiroshi Saeki

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed Sri Lanka Education Sector Development Project (ESDP) will support Sri
Lanka's Education Sector Development Framework and Program (ESDFP) 2006-2010 to:
(a) promote equitable access to basic education (grades 1-9) and secondary education
(grades 10-13), (b) improve the quality of education, (c) enhance the economic efficiency
and equity of resource allocation and distribution within the education system, and (d)
strengthen education governance and service delivery.



                                                iii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
  (a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Net Enrolment Rates, ages 6-14 years
Value
quantitative or 81                        83                                  N/A
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  06/30/2011
                NER data cannot be accurately calculated at this point of the time as the
Comments
                population data have not been collected for a decade due to prolonged conflicts.
(incl. %
                The next census is expected to be conducted in 2012, based on which MoE will
achievement)
                calculate NER.
Indicator 2 : Survival rate through grade 9
Value
quantitative or 78                        88                                  91
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (103%): All provinces exceeded the targets.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Cognitive achievement scores in first language (Sinhalese or Tamil) Grade 4
Value
quantitative or 69                        73                                  83
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (114%): All provinces exceeded the targets.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Cognitive achievement scores in mathematics
Value
quantitative or 67                        71                                  82
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (115%): All provinces exceeded the targets.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                     Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
                The number of out-of-school children decreased (Number and percentage of
Indicator 1 :   children aged 6-14 enrolled in the education system and completing the basic
                education (grade 1-9) cycle)

                                               iv
Value
(quantitative     0                         50,000                             67,708
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                  Achieved (135%): In particular, the special target province, the Eastern province,
(incl. %
                  showed substantial improvements (264% of the target)
achievement)
                  Percentage of schools having teaching plans (Learning competencies over the
Indicator 2 :     basic and secondary education cycles clearly specified and communicated to
                  schools)
Value
(quantitative     0                         50%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                  Both Syllabi and Teacher Instructional Manuals (TIMs) were all revised and
(incl. %
                  updated at all specified grades accordingly to the plans specified in PAD.
achievement)
                  Percentage of schools staffed with graduates or certified teachers, and supported
Indicator 3 :
                  by a high quality teacher development system
Value
(quantitative   80%                         90%                               95%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (106%)
achievement)
                Percentage of textbook delivered to school on time (Quantity, on time delivery
Indicator 4 :
                and quality of available to children)
Value
(quantitative   0                           60%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments        Achieved (167%): Defects in textbooks were identified and factual errors of
(incl. %        textbooks were collected. All textbooks are now delivered on time, January every
achievement) year when the new session starts.
                An examination item bank developed and examination guidelines specified and
Indicator 5 :
                communicated to schools and stakeholders
Value
(quantitative   0                           100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments
                Achieved (100%): Examination item bank was fully developed. Examination
(incl. %
                guidelines were specified and distributed to schools and stakeholders.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Recurrent education budget allocated to higher order process and inputs
Value
(quantitative   0.5%                        3%                 3.2%           3.3%
or Qualitative)

                                                  v
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   06/30/2011          06/30/2011     06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (103%): Many provinces met the annual targets throughout the project.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Capital education budget allocated to higher order process and inputs
                Capital education budget
Value
                not prioritized for higher
(quantitative                              40%                 42%            43%
                order learning spaces and
or Qualitative)
                assets.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   06/30/2011          06/30/2011     06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (102%): Many provinces met the annual targets throughout the project.
achievement)
                Resources allocated for maintenance, repair and replacement of the education
Indicator 8 :
                capital stock
Value
(quantitative   5%                         15%                                18%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (120%): All provinces, except for Uva, met the targets of the project.
achievement)
                The Program for School Improvement (PSI) pilot tested and evaluated, and
Indicator 9 :
                established country-wide after incorporating lessons from the pilot programs
Value
(quantitative   0                          93                                 93
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments        Achieved (100%):The Program for School Improvement (PSI) pilot tested and
(incl. %        evaluated, and established country-wide after incorporating lessons from the pilot
achievement) programs: The project reached 100% target covering all zones in the country.
                Organizational capacity review of the Ministry of Education, provincial, zonal
Indicator 10 :
                and divisional education authorities completed
Value
(quantitative   No                         Completed                          Completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                The review was successfully completed with follow up actions. (More detail
(incl. %
                information is provided in Annex 2)
achievement)
                A long-term human resource development plan produced and forms the basis for
Indicator 11 : staff development in the national Ministry of Education and among the
                Provincial Education Ministries.
                                           (i) 80% of national
Value                                      MOE HRD plan
(quantitative   No plan available          implemented and                    Fully achieved
or Qualitative)                            completed and (ii)
                                           60% of provincial


                                               vi
                                            Ministries of
                                            Education HRD
                                            plan implemented
                                            and completed
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments        “Report on the Preparation of HRD Plans for the Provincial Education
(incl. %        Authorities? was delivered by Sri Lanka Institute of Development
achievement) Administration in 2010. Relevant authorities were trained accordingly.
Indicator 12 : Expand Access to Bilingual (English medium) education
Value
(quantitative   0                           1,000                             867
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
                Partially achieved (86.7%): MOE decided in 2010 that it would not expand the
Comments
                bilingual education. The main reason for this was that there was not adequate
(incl. %
                number of teachers who could support the system and expand beyond what was
achievement)
                achieved in 2010.
                Increase Category 2, Category 3 and conflict affected schools with essential
Indicator 13 :
                school facilities, such as water and sanitation
Value
(quantitative   0                           750                               4,029
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments        Achieved (537%): The school environment in student health has dramatically
(incl. %        improved and far exceeded the targets. Number of schools provided with water
achievement) & sanitation increased from 695 to 1,984.
Indicator 14 : Cognitive achievement scores in English language
Value
(quantitative   32                          35                                58
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2008                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (167%): All provinces exceeded the targets.
achievement)
                Teacher Centers conducted multi-ethnic teacher training (Promoting a multi-
Indicator 15 :
                ethnic and multi-cultural society through the school curriculum)
Value
(quantitative   0                           60                                78
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
                NIE established multi ethnic & cultural committees and developed tasks for
Comments
                promotion of a multi ethnic & cultural society. Two review reports on civics and
(incl. %
                history curricula for secondary education were produced. All agreed activities
achievement)
                were completed.




                                               vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                        Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                      IP             Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                    (USD millions)
 1     06/13/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   6.00
 2     11/07/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 12.00
 3     05/25/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 18.00
 4     11/28/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 18.00
 5     05/14/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 24.00
 6     11/13/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 30.00
 7     04/30/2009        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 34.50
 8     10/27/2009        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 45.70
 9     04/19/2010        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 60.81
 10    11/15/2010        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 67.30
 11    05/22/2011        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 72.74

H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Additional Financing (improve
                                                     the educational opportunities of
                                                     children living in poor rural,
 05/06/2008       N       S       S          24.00   estate and conflict affected
                                                     regions and to promote multi-
                                                     cultural and multi-ethnic
                                                     society.)




                                        viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. In 2005 Sri Lanka was a developing country with a per capita income of US$1,030 per
person. About 23 percent of the population lived below the poverty line. There were also high
regional variations in poverty mainly due to a separatist conflict beginning in 1983 that had
constrained the progress of the country. A tentative ceasefire between the government and the
separatist forces held, for the most part, in 2001. As a result, the integration of the North Eastern
Province with the rest of the country improved. The economy was expanding at a trend growth
rate of about 4.5 percent per annum. However, the conflict resumed after the project appraisal in
2005.

2. Sri Lanka had about 4 million school children enrolled in approximately 9,800 public
schools and 300 private and international schools. Investment in education was, and is, at the
heart of the development strategy of the country, and a prominent focus of public policy. Primary
education (grades 1-5) participation was high. Net primary enrolment rate was 96 percent among
both boys and girls, and the net primary completion rate was 95 percent for both genders.

3. Despite the high participation rates in primary education, Sri Lanka faced new challenges,
Cognitive achievement tests in primary education showed substantial shortfalls in language and
numeracy skills. Learning achievements also showed high regional variations. In addition,
participation rates and learning needed to increase in basic education (grades 1-9) and in
secondary education (grades 10-13), especially in poorer regions. The net enrollment in basic
education (grades 1-9) was only 81 percent and the survival rate to grade 9 was only 78 percent.

4. The rationale for Bank’s assistance to the project included the following. First, given that
IDA was the largest education donor in Sri Lanka, its financial support to the Sri Lanka’s basic
and secondary school system was critical for continuing and consolidating the gains of
investments in two previous IDA’s general education projects closed in 20051. Second, IDA was
already assisting the tertiary education sector through another credit, and assistance to the general
education system was needed to ensure holistic support to develop the entire Sri Lanka education
system. Third, the international knowledge of good practices in education policy formulation and
strategy development was highly demanded to strengthen the government program of Education
Sector Development Framework and Program (ESDFP). Fourth, the project was included in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and was one of the flagship operations to promote its
objectives of equity, growth and peace in the country.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
5. The proposed Sri Lanka Education Sector Development Project (ESDP) will support Sri
Lanka's Education Sector Development Framework and Program (ESDFP) 2006-2010 to: (a)
promote equitable access to basic education (grades 1-9) and secondary education (grades 10-13),
(b) improve the quality of education, (c) enhance the economic efficiency and equity of resource
allocation and distribution within the education system, and (d) strengthen education governance
and service delivery.



1
    Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Credit, and Second General Education Credit.

                                                    1
6. The following long-term outcome indicators (both Project Development Outcome and
Intermediate Outcome indictors) were selected to monitor the project and evaluate its
achievements:

        Education participation and survival rates in the age range 6-14 years;
        Learning achievements in basic and secondary education;
        The proportion of the education budget allocated for higher order spaces and processes
         and assets to promote competencies and skills that enjoy high economic returns; and
        Favorable stakeholder assessments of education management arrangements.

7. In order to evaluate the progress of the achievement of the above long-term outcome
indicators, intermediate indicators related to policy, results and monitoring were established. This
will be discussed in detail in the section 2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design,
Implementation and Utilization.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
8. No revision was made for PDO. Additional Financing expanded the project activities to
further improve the economic opportunities of children and youth in poor households and lagging
regions, and to promote a multi-cultural and multi-ethnic society.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9.   The project had identified the followings as main beneficiaries:
     Primary beneficiaries
         About 4 million children in the basic and secondary education age groups from all
          ethnic groups and religious communities. This included out-of-school children and
          children with special learning needs.
         Approximately 10,000 schools under Program for School Improvement;
         Around 200,000 school teachers, including head masters, through teacher development
          program; and
         Officials at the central, provincial and zonal levels through the human resource
          development strategy that aimed to improve administrative, technical and operational
          skills.

     Indirect beneficiaries
         Contractors involved in the construction, renovation and refurbishment of civil works
          under the project, firms supplying equipment and goods to the education system with
          project resources, universities and research institutions which undertook monitoring,
          evaluation and research studies, and employers getting better trained students.

10. As a spillover effect, the communities participating in School Management Committee were
strengthened by providing them direct voice in school management. Further, communities across
the provinces were also benefited through multi-ethnic and multi-culture activities which were
added under the additional financing.

1.5 Original Themes (as approved)
11. The project was organized according to four themes, reflecting the cardinal development
initiatives of the Government’s ESDFP.



                                                 2
Theme 1. Promoting Equitable Access to Basic and Secondary Education: Under this theme,
there were four key development initiatives for all children aged for basic and secondary
education: (i) Providing demand side incentives for school attendance, (ii) Upgrading the network
of schools to relax constraints on geographically equitable access to good quality basic and
secondary education, (iii) Strengthening special education programs for children with special
learning needs, and (iv) Strengthening non-formal education programs for non school-going
adolescents.

Theme 2. Improving the Quality of Education: This theme aimed to improve learning outcomes
by developing generic skills, such as creativity, communication, problem solving, and non-
cognitive achievements. The theme was supported by three policy initiatives: (i) Re-structuring
and upgrading curriculum, (ii) Teacher development, and (iii) Modernizing examinations and
testing.

Theme 3. Enhancing the Economic Efficiency and Equity of Resource Allocation: The
objective of the third theme was to improve the economic efficiency and equity of resource
allocation. There were three policy initiatives under this theme: (i) Establishing a medium-term
budget framework for education (MTBF), (ii) Developing an overarching education sector
development plan, and (iii) Establishing a public expenditure and quality education tracking
system (PEOETS).

Theme 4. Strengthening Education Governance and Service Delivery: The fourth theme was
comprised of three policy initiatives to improve governance and strengthen capacity at all levels
of the government education system: (i) Establishing a balanced control model of school based
management, the Program for School Improvement, (ii) Conducting organizational analysis for
capacity building, and (iii) Implementing a human resource development strategy.

1.6 Revised Themes
12. There was no change in the agreed themes during the project life.

1.7 Other significant changes
13. The project was scaled up by the Additional Financing (USD 10 million) in 2008 because
significant achievements had been already made by the second year of the project. Disbursement
reached 40 percent, and some of the indicators already exceeded targets. The additional financing
was expected to be fully disbursed within the original project life.

14. The additional financing added new policy initiatives under the existing four themes. The
added initiatives were consistent with the CAS, addressing causes of the conflict and also
mitigating the consequences. Therefore, it expanded the activities to improve the educational
opportunities of children living in poor rural, estate, and conflict affected regions, and to promote
social cohesion. Further, it supported the national ten year development framework 2006 to 2016
(Mahinda Chintana: Vision for A New Sri Lanka) that aims to elevate Sri Lanka to a middle
income country, and put more emphasis on English skills and higher-order thinking skills. Below
are the added initiatives under the themes.

Theme 1: Promoting Equitable Access to Basic and Secondary Education
  Developing and implementing a master plan for Bilingual (English medium) education




                                                 3
  Expanding the number of Category 2 and Category 3 schools with safe drinking water and
   clean sanitation, supported by a process of certifying schools as health promoting schools2
Theme 2: Improving the Quality of Education
  Increasing support for the development of English as a second language
  Improving the curriculum material in civics and history to promote a multi-ethnic and
    multicultural society
Theme 3: Enhancing the Economic Efficiency and Equity of Resource Allocation
  Increasing the resources available for higher-order assets and spaces, such as ICT equipment
    and centers, and library equipment and material, in Category 2 and Category 3 schools
Theme 4: Strengthening Education Governance and Service Delivery
  Promoting multi-ethnic teacher education and training program
  Human resource development of civics and history curriculum developers
  Promotion of co-curricular activities among children of different ethnic communities

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
15. Project Preparation and Design. Comprehensive SWAp with the strong government
leadership at preparation and design stage. The government decided to introduce a SWAp, for
the first time in its history, with a multi-year education expenditure framework and streamlined
management systems at central, provincial and school levels. Given that there was already a
comprehensive national education framework to strengthen basic and secondary education in Sri
Lanka, this approach was adopted to further strengthen the entire basic and secondary education
system, rather than to have another ring-fenced project. Since this was the first SWAp in the
country, some of the education reforms supported through the ESDFP were to be pilot-tested
during the early years of the project and scaled up nationwide after proper evaluations. In order to
carefully implement such reforms with a new approach of a SWAp, organizational capacity
development was embedded in the project design, with a strong focus at provincial levels.

16. The project preparation and design was carefully undertaken with a wide range of
consultations with the government counterparts, stakeholders and Bank technical experts. More
specifically, the project design was based on: (i) dialogue and support for the policy development
process, culminating in Proposals for a National Policy Framework on General Education in Sri
Lanka [NEC (2003)], from which policies have been prioritized, strategies selected and the
ESDFP developed; (ii) the findings and recommendations of a comprehensive study, the World
Bank Education Sector Report Treasures of the Education System in Sri Lanka (2005); and (iii)
the lessons learned from past IDA education credits, especially Teacher Education and Teacher
Deployment Credit (TETD) and Second General Education Credit (GEP2).

17. Several alternatives to a SWAp were considered. They were a traditional Specific
Investment Loan (SIL) supporting specific activities, not the entire sector, and Development
Policy Lending (DPL). These two alternatives were rejected for the following reasons. The ring-
fenced SIL was not appropriate to supporting the entire education system as the Government
needed sector wide support. The DPL was not appropriate either considering that the complex
education development initiatives such as curriculum reform, teacher development,
modernization of examinations, etc required long-term and incremental development measures.


2
  Category 2 schools run from grades 1 – 11, and Category 3 schools are usually primary schools, running
from grades 1 – 5 with a few exceptions running upto grade 8.

                                                    4
18. The Sector wide approach was also supported by other Development Partners (DPs),
including ADB, BMZ, DFID, JBIC, JICA, SIDA, and UNICEF during the project preparation.
Their financial support (parallel financing) and technical assistance were expected to be gradually
integrated into the SWAp.

19. The project identified risks during the project preparation. One of the critical risks was the
resistance to the Program for School Improvement (PSI) due to incorrect understanding of it
among social groups. Some of them were concerned that giving the powers to school
communities to raise resources would result in the state ceasing to fund public schools, which was
not PSI’s intent. The MoE managed to get the PSI approved by the Cabinet, the highest level of
approval, before the Negotiations between GOSL and World Bank. The Cabinet approval
substantially mitigated the risk to the PSI and led it to be the main vehicle with public support to
improve the education quality in basic and secondary education in Sri Lanka. Another risk was
the potential resistance to the organization analysis. However, it turned out to be successfully
conducted before the appraisal, and it concluded that the MoE has adequate capacity to
commence implementation of the ESDFP. Further, the organizational capacity review of
provincial education agencies, originally scheduled for 2006, had commenced ahead of schedule
in 2005.

20. Project at Entry. A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was held at the pre-appraisal stage.
The panel assessed the project preparation to be satisfactory. The panel endorsed the PDO and
acknowledged the high quality of the preparatory work, sound project concept and well thought
through design. The project design was further strengthened by incorporating the suggestions of
the QER, such as the introduction of IT in secondary education and capacity development at
central and provincial levels. The team identified risks discussed above (PSI and organizational
analysis), and developed mitigating measures accordingly.

21. In addition, there was significant evidence showing the implementation readiness of the
government at project entry. First, the education budget for 2006 increased by 53% compared to
that for 2005. Second, almost all the MOE agencies and the eight Provincial Education
Authorities (PEAs) had completed the drafts of their ESDFP implementation plans for 2006-2010
with budget heads, targets, outputs, activities, responsible agencies, and time frame. Third, the
National Education Research and Evaluation Center (NEREC) had already gained the baseline
data of learning achievements in Grade4, 8 and 10 for first language, mathematics and science,
and commenced data analysis. This provided a strong foundation to rigorously evaluate learning
outcomes of the project. Fourth, all financial management and procurement actions needed for
negotiations were fully completed.

2.2 Implementation
22. Implementation was rated satisfactory during the entire project life. The main factor
that contributed to the successful implementation of the project was strong ownership both at
central and provincial levels. The building of strong ownership was made possible by the
adoption of the SWAp. The funds were directly distributed to the central Ministry of Education
(MOE) and the Provincial Councils through the government budget channels. Both MoE and the
Finance Commission (FC) collaboratively played an important role to facilitate the SWAp. MOE
formulated the national education policy, developed teacher education and training, and
established the national quality standards. The FC, on the other hand, focused on implementation,
monitoring, and evaluation of the project and assisted in preparing budget estimates at provincial
and zonal levels.


                                                 5
23. In order to fully exercise the Government’s and FC’s strong ownership, the Bank team
continuously supported capacity development both at central and provincial levels. The Bank, for
instance, provided technical assistance for human resource development of education officials,
with a focus on improving their planning, budgeting, administration and monitoring skills,
including the system development on performance based budgeting at the Finance Commission.
It also helped MOE and provincial Ministries to develop the fiduciary system that automatically
recorded procurement and financial information, including personnel information. Further, the
Bank supported efforts to strengthen the capacity of MOE to manage research and studies, and
consultant services. As a result, many research papers were jointly published. These included, to
name a few, an impact evaluation of PSI, a study in the National Assessments of Learning
Outcomes, and Quality Development of The Process of School System of Education III. The
findings from these studies were substantially reflected in the national educational policies that
helped achieve the project objectives, and fed back into improving project design.

24. In the same year of the Mid-Term Review, the additional financing was approved due to the
successful implementation as there were opportunities to expand the horizon of the project by
adding new initiatives discussed in Section 1.7.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
25. Monitoring and Evaluation in the project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The
project had a strong focus on the monitoring and evaluation of results and outcomes during the
entire project period. Reliable data are available for most indicators. However, Net Enrolment
Rates (ages 6-14), one of the outcome indicators, cannot be accurately calculated at the project
completion as the population data have not been collected for a decade due to prolonged conflicts.
Therefore, M&E is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. The next census is expected to be conducted
in 2012, based on which MoE will be able to calculate accurate the NER.

26. M&E Design: The QER panel considered the M&E design “very thorough and
comprehensive?. The formal correspondence between the PAD text and Annex 3A (Results
Framework and Monitoring) was evaluated as “perfect? by the panel. Yet, the design was further
refined, incorporating the panel’s suggestions. All baseline data, wherever applicable, were in
place in the Results Framework of the PAD. Some public independent research institutions, e.g.
National Education Research and Evaluation Center (NEREC), National Institute of Education
(NIE), etc, were involved in data collection and analysis so that the collected data can be
objective and credible.

27. M&E Implementation: The required data were periodically collected and reflected in all
Aide Memoire (AM) and Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) to facilitate the project
implementation. The collected data were utilized to have evidence based policy dialogues among
MoE, FC, Provincial Councils, and the Bank team during the all implementation support missions.

28. M&E Utilization: The government and the Bank team fully utilized the periodically
collected data to monitor the progress of the project. It is noteworthy that a high-level monitoring
and implementation support meeting was monthly held and chaired by the Secretary of MOE and
attended by additional secretaries, heads of MOE departments and the Director-General, NIE,
senior officials of the MOE, representatives from the FC, and with participation from the Bank.
The monthly monitoring meetings assessed the progress of the project, identified areas of issues,
and provided mitigation measures against the issues. The official missions were used to boost the
implementation of the mitigation measures and evaluate the outcomes.


                                                 6
29. For further improvement of the M&E system, efficiency of data collection and data
verification could be improved. In a few cases (e.g., financial management report at provincial
level), data collection format was not uniformed at local level. Hence, consolidation of the data
took some time. Further, strengthening the data verification mechanism would further enhance
the credibility of the data. MoE should also proactively collaborate with relevant departments to
periodically and accurately calculate the key indicator of NER.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
30. Safeguard compliance is rated as satisfactory. There were no major environmental issues.
One Safeguard Policy, OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, was triggered, but no significant
environment and social impact was anticipated by the project. The construction of new school
buildings and renovation of existing school buildings took place in accordance with the Bank
Operational Policies. In addition, a new warehouse complex for textbooks was built, fulfilling the
criteria of environment checklist with a detailed environmental management plan.

31. Fiduciary compliance of the project is rated as satisfactory. During the entire project
cycle, both procurement and financial management were rated as satisfactory in ISRs without
major issues.

32. The public sector procurement framework was found satisfactory at project entry,
based on two studies on the country’s capacity to implement procurement: Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR, 2002) and Education Sector Procurement Assessment (ESPA 2005).
Further, the revised Procurement Guidelines were approved by the President Office and Cabinet
before the project approval. Two implementing units were established for managing procurement
activities: Procurement Cell at the MOE and Technical Support Unit (TSU) at the Finance
Commission.3 These two units closely worked on project procurement during implementation.
During the initial years of the project, there were some delays in staff appointments and monthly
reporting. The joint Government and World Bank mission pointed out the issues and paid special
attention to strengthening the operations of the Procurement Cell and TSU to manage the
procurement process more effectively and efficiently. The situation improved as the project
moved forward. Continued capacity development through training programs helped improve the
government procurement system. It was recommended at a final phase of the project that further
capacity building would be of more help to strengthen the procurement implementation, in
particular the areas of staffing at Procurement Cell and precise delegation of duties to the staff.

33. It should be noted that there was no major issue found during the post review and ex-post
audit.

34. There was no major issue in Financial Management (FM). The project directly
supplemented the budgets of the central Ministry of Education and the eight Provincial Ministries
of Education through the SWAp. Hence, overall FM arrangements focused on the capacity
building of the existing government financial management system. During project
implementation, there were several minor delays in transferring funds and errors in recording in
the areas of flow of funds and internal controls in the payment process. These issues were not
systemic, and measures against them were taken in an adequate and prompt manner.



3
 The TSU was established not only to manage procurement but oversees the overall project
implementation at provincial level from governance to monitoring, education planning and management,
and public expenditure management.

                                                  7
35. One minor issue was the fixed asset management. The audit opinion was qualified mainly
because of the weak asset management system in provinces. The capacity of internal audit was
not adequate due to lack of staff. The weaknesses remained until the final phase of the project.
Although the FM capacity at the central level is, in general, adequate and this minor issue had
little impact on the project implementation, there is room for further improvement, particularly at
provincial and zonal levels.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
36. Building upon the achievements made by ESDFP, the government has prepared the second
national Education Sector Development Framework and Program (ESDFP-II) for 2012-2016. It
puts more emphasis on secondary education, given the significant achievements in primary
education under ESDFP-I. The Bank will support the program through “Transforming the School
Education System as The Foundation of a Knowledge Hub Project? (TSEP) approved by the
Board in November, 2011. The project incorporates the lessons learned from its predecessor.

37. TSEP will continue to put emphasis on, through ESDFP-II, equitable access, quality of
education, and governance and service delivery. ESDFP-II and TSEP are in alignment with the
national vision, Mahinda Chintana (MC): Vision for the Future (2010). Policy makers seek to
accelerate economic growth and enable Sri Lanka to become a high-middle income country.
Developing the nation as a knowledge hub within the South Asia region is one of the main
strategic policy visions. The knowledge hub is considered central to the transformation of the
economy, as knowledge is the key ingredient of growth in the modern global economy. Hence,
building upon the successful achievements in ESDFP-I, ESDFP-II will strengthen key skills for a
knowledge hub, such as English language, information and communications technology (ICT),
science and mathematics, taking into account wide regional disparities. These areas will also be
supported by TSEP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
38. The project remains highly relevant. The project development objectives are still relevant
and consistent with both Mahinda Chintana: Vision for the Future (Ministry of Financing and
Planning, 2010) and Country Assistant Strategy (CAS) 2009-12.

39. The Mahinda Chintana shows five policy directions in the education sector: (i) Successful
completion of primary and secondary education across socio-economic backgrounds, gender, and
ethnicities, (ii) Improvement of learning outcomes, (iii) Development of functional skills in
English, mathematics, and higher-order thinking, (iv) Teacher development, and (v) Quality
improvement in the teaching and learning process. The four project themes discussed in Section
1.5 and 1.7 are fully consistent with these five policy directions.

40. The CAS under which the ESDP was prepared had three central themes to support the
country’s Poverty Reduction Strategy: Peace, Growth and Equity. More specifically in the
education sector, the CAS addressed two focus education areas: (i) addressing regional inequities
in the provision of quality basic education; (ii) improving the curricula in secondary education.
These are in alignment with the project theme one and two, respectively. Further, the additional
financing strengthened the peace building of the country under the project theme two focusing on
promoting multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society.



                                                8
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
41. All key performance indicators, except for bilingual education, have either met their
proposed targets or, in some cases, even exceeded targets. The project made substantial
progress towards the Project Development Objectives. There are four key themes laid out under
the government’s ESDFP. This section will first examine the achievements of the outcomes and
then assess the causal relationships between the Bank’s intervention and the outcomes under the
four themes. Detail project outcomes are listed in Annex 2.

Achievements
42. Theme 1. Promote equitable access to basic education (grades 1-9) and secondary
education (grades 10-13): The project helped the government ESDFP to significantly expand
the access to the compulsory basic education (primary and lower secondary). The number of
out-of-school children reduced approximately by 68,000 against the target of 50,000 (146%
achievement). Further, the survival rate of students through the compulsory basic education cycle
also continuously improved from 78% in 2005 to 91% in 2010, against the project target of 88%.
The improvement in survival rates can be seen across all provinces, particularly in weaker
provinces such as Northern and Eastern provinces (See Annex 2). The significant improvements
in these provinces are mainly due to the strategic emphasis on such provinces in the project. The
Additional Financing targeted conflict affected schools and improved their essential facilities
such as water and sanitation in more than 4,000 schools against the target of 750.

43. While the access to basic education shows significant improvement, the progress of
education access to secondary education has been modest. The pass rates for GCE O/L and A/L
in 2005 were 48 and 60 percents respectively. Those rates have been constant for both levels at 49
and 60 percent respectively in 2009. Therefore, there is still room for further improvement in the
access to secondary education. The next phase of the government program will consider having
an indicator of education access at senior secondary education level.

44. Theme 2: Improve the quality of education: The second objective is achieved through
significant improvements in the test scores. Test scores are often used as a proxy to measure
quality of education. The project used three test scores to assess the quality of education at grade
4. Table 1 shows significant improvements in all three subjects.4

              Table 1: Proportion of Students Achieving Higher than 50% in Grade 4
                                         Baseline      2009    Target   Achievement
                         First Language     69          83      73         114%
                         Mathematics        67          82      71         115%
                         English            32          58      35         167%
                     Source: NEREC, various years

45. The government collected additional data, which are not required for the project evaluation,
on learning outcomes at grade 8 that also show significant improvements during the project
period (Table 2). Further, the test scores improved in all sub-skills in both mathematics and
science in Grade 8 (Figure 1).




4
    The indicator for English test scores was added in the Additional Financing.

                                                       9
            Table 2: Proportion of Students Achieving Higher than 50% in Grade 8
                                            2005 2008 Improvement
                               Mathematics   33     45        136%
                               Science       53     59        113%
                                 Source: NEREC, various years

       Figure 1: National Achievement at Grade 8 in Mathematics and Science
                   Mathematics                              Science




    Source: NEREC, various years

46. The national and provincial Ministries of Education started using results of these student
learning achievements to inform planning and implementation at the early stage of the project
implementation. Based on the data assessed, they specifically addressed the learning needs in
rural and estate areas that initially showed relatively lower achievements in learning outcomes.
This initiative led to significantly improve learning outcomes in Northern and Eastern provinces
(See Annex 2).

47. Quality of education should not be measured only by test scores. Education plays an
important role to create social harmony, which was in high demand at the approval of the
Additional Financing in 2008 when the country was still in conflict. The 1997 Education Reforms
put the emphasis on the importance of the idea that teaching and learning environment “will
inculcate justice and fair play in pupils regardless of caste, creed or social class? [Presidential
Task Force (1997), p26]. MoE took a vital step of preparing a national policy identifying seven
strategic areas on promoting social cohesion through education [MoE (2008)]. 5 Co-curriculum
activities, one of the seven strategic areas in the national policy, among children of different
ethnic communities were conducted across all provinces, and the number of such activities
increased from 355 in 2009 to 629 in 2011, against the target of 360.6 Further, curricula of civics
and history were revised in 2011 and distributed to all schools as planned.

48. Achievements in inter-ethnic trust and respect for cultural diversity are hard to be quantified.
However, given the current peaceful environment in the country, it can be assumed that these




5
  Seven strategic areas are (a) curriculum, (b) teacher education, (c) second national language, (d) whole
school culture, (e) integrated school, (f) co-curricular activities, and (g) research.
6
  This indicator was added as part of the Additional Financing. In 2008 prior to the Additional Financing,
there were few such activities. However, the activity immediately picked the pace in the first year of the
implementation in 2009 and steadily increased till 2011.

                                                    10
project activities may have been deepening mutual understanding among different ethnicities and
contributing to keep the current peace, to some extent.

49. Theme 3: Enhance the economic efficiency and equity of resource allocation and
distribution within the education system: The third theme was most likely satisfactorily
achieved. The MoE, FC, PEAs, and MFP made satisfactory progress on budget formulation in
the context of the medium-term budget framework (MTBF) for basic and secondary education.
Although the percentages of the current and capital budgets for higher-order processes and spaces
at national level are not available due to lack of the actual amounts allocated to higher-order
processes and spaces at provincial level, most of the provinces exceeded their targets in 2011 (See
Annex 2).7 Therefore, it is very likely that the targets were achieved at nationally aggregated level.
Similarly, another indicator, “resources allocated for replacement of the education capital stocks?
also most likely achieved the target at national level. In the next phase of the project, the MoE
should pay more attention to collecting the actual detail budget figures at provincial level.

50. The Public Expenditure and Quality Education Tracking System (PEQETS) has been
established, and it produced a useful data set for the MOE, FC, MFP, and PEAs. The objective of
the PEQETS was to promote equity and transparency in resource distribution by tracking the flow
of expenditures to, and through, the various levels of the central and provincial education system
down to schools. The first round of the PEQETS in 2006-07 produced a high quality report
showing considerable differences between the resources received by national Schools and those
by Provincial Schools (Table 3).

Table 3: Average per pupil and per school budget 2006-07
       Province No. of students No. of schools Per student total exp. Per school total exp.
        Western           681,617             1,288            Rs 14,153               Rs7,489,948
         Central          419,314             1,413                  16,195               4,805,857
        Southern          354,714             1,032                  17,931               6,163,073
        Northern          244,888               881                  16,341               4,542,359
         Eastern          325,040               944                  12,562               4,325,524
  North Western           385,617             1,187                  17,239               5,600,248
   North Central          224,680               772                  15,576               4,533,276
            Uva           223,919               795                  17,434               4,910,398
 Sabaragamuwa             300,598             1,076                  16,129               4,506,000
        National          676,127               326                  19,313             40,056,743
     SriSchools
          Lanka         3,836,514             9,714                  16,380               6,469,121
Source: Budget Estimates, Ministry of Finance and Planning (2007) and School Census, Ministry of
Education (2006)

51. Based on the results above, the MoE, FC, MFP and PEAs decided to increase resources for
provincial school by re-allocating funds from the national schools budget. The second round of
the PEQETS has been completed, and a summary report is currently work in progress.

52. Theme 4: Strengthen education governance and service delivery. The education
governance and service delivery has been strengthened particularly at school level. The
impact evaluation of the Program for School Improvement (PSI) clearly shows the improvement
of cognitive abilities of primary school students among the schools with the PSI intervention.


7
 Higher-order processes include teacher development and capacity building of principals and education
officials. Higher-order spaces include activity rooms, computer centers, libraries, science laboratories,
workshops, home science rooms.

                                                     11
Math and English scores increased by 0.20 and 0.18 standard deviations, respectively, among
grade 4 students from the PSI schools. According to the report, discussions with stakeholders also
suggested that a range of processes, covering better teacher and parental involvement with
children, both at school and in the home, are likely to have contributed to the improvement in
cognitive abilities. The PSI has been implemented nation-wide after incorporating lessons learned
from the pilot in 2007.

53. At central and provincial levels, there is a clear improvement in capacity, particularly in the
accounting and payment work of the MOE and FC, compared to the earlier years of the project
(University of Colombo, 2010). A significant number of key staff in different departments under
MOE and across all provinces participated in short term and long term (one year) training in both
Sri Lanka and foreign countries (See Annex 2). Although there were several cases where trained
staff were not deployed to appropriate positions, most of them utilized their new skills and
knowledge in their positions.8 It is likely that achievements in the project indicators were related
to the capacity development through short and long term training for the staff.

54. The Additional Financing proposed ambitious but highly demanded activities. Under the
fourth theme, the project aimed to support social cohesion/harmony through facilitating the
integrations between two ethnic groups that had been fighting for decades. For that, three
additional indicators were added, and all of them met the targets by the end of the project. First,
the number of Teacher Centers conducting multi-ethnic teacher training programs increased to 78
against the target of 60 (130% achievement). Second, two key technical staff of Department of
Social Science were provided a training on curriculum and instruction development for civics and
history at a Master’s level. Third, 605 co-curricular activities among children of different ethnic
communities have been successfully conducted across all provinces against the target of 360.
Such activities were aimed at positively impacting young people’s attitudes towards others of
different ethnic and cultural backgrounds.

Linkages
55. Theme 1. The significant achievements under the theme 1 are highly likely due to the
project interventions and outputs. First, the project assisted the government to facilitate school
attendance committees. The activation of school attendance committees promoted school
attendance among children up to age 14, and it helped increase the survival rates. The committees
periodically monitored and promoted school attendance and discussed measures with parents to
bring back the out-of-school children into the education system. Second, school feeding programs
were also supported by the project. They were targeted towards areas of sever malnourishment
and were particularly attractive in encouraging children from poor communities to attend school.
Schools in the programs showed increased attendance in the years following the implementation
of school feeding [MoE 2007a and 2007b]. Third, the project helped special education and non-
formal education programs strengthen for children with special learning needs. Many out-of-
school children were identified and brought back to formal, special, and non-formal education.
The number of such children is available in Annex 2.

56. There may be external factors that might have contributed to the improvement of education
access, such as free tuition, free uniforms and textbooks, an enacted compulsory education
legislation and automatic progression from grades1 to 11. However, these policies had existed



8
  Finding of such cases is also an indication of the commitment to fully utilize the improved human
resources by central and provincial ministries.

                                                    12
before the project. Therefore, it is most likely that the project interventions significantly
contributed to the progress of the education access in the country.

57. Theme 2. The project interventions are likely to have significantly contributed to the
improvement of education quality. It can be reasonably assumed that the increase in test scores
in three subjects were mainly due to a series of the project interventions and improvement of
output indicators during the project life.

58. First, learning competencies in both basic and secondary education were fully specified.
Syllabi and Teacher Instructional Manuals (TIMs) were revised in all grades from 1 to 13 and
distributed to all schools. All schools had teaching plans by 2010, and the number of In-Service
Advisors trained increased 3,265 to 21,779 in 2005 and 2010 respectively. Second, the quality of
teacher improved. By 2010, 95% of schools were staffed with graduates or certified trained
teachers, as compared to 80% in the baseline year. Third, the quality of textbooks has improved
since 2006 by correcting factual errors, and the revised textbooks were distributed to all schools.
All schools have received textbooks on time since 2009 while only 75% of them received them
prior to the school year in 2007, and it was even worse before 2007.9 Fourth, examination and test
systems were modernized by developing an examination item bank. The examination item bank
for O/L and A/L was developed by 2010 in all subjects (core and non-core). Examination
guidelines for O/L were specified and distributed to schools and stakeholders in 2008, and A/L in
2011.

59. Theme 3. The capacity development designed by the project at provincial and zonal
levels helped achieve economic efficiency and equity of resource allocation. The
achievements were due to continued support from the MoE, FC, PEAs, and MFP. They
conducted field visits and held workshops to improve the understanding of classification of
higher-order assets and spaces, and of essential learning facilities, among provincial and sub-
provincial officials. Further, they provided lucid explanations of the relationship between
budgetary inputs, implementation process, outputs and final outcomes in the results framework to
provincial and zonal officials.

60. Theme 4. The impact evaluation shows strong correlations between the Bank
interventions and the outcomes. Through the rigorous impact evaluation of PSI, which was the
major intervention of the project under the fourth themes, it clearly shows that schools with PSI
improved student learning outcomes, compared to those without PSI.

3.3 Efficiency
61. The high efficiency of the project investment is endorsed by the following factors. First,
internal efficiency improved by increasing the survival rates from 78 percent in 2005 to 91
percent in 2010 and decreasing the percentage of repeaters in primary (all grades) from 0.95
percent in 2006 to 0.87 percent in 2009. Second, external efficiency was also improved.
Employment rates increased from 65 percent to 68 percent, from 57 percent to 59 percent, and
from 50 percent to 52 percent among basic education, O/L and A/L completers, respectively,
from 2004 to 2008. Third, a cost-benefit analysis shows the internal rate of returns to the project
was 16 percent, and the net present value was approximately US$ 785 million (taking in to


9
  Before 2007, the situation was even severer particularly in the Northern and the Eastern provinces. Due to
the conflicts in these provinces, the land routes were closed, and the Education Publication Department had
to use ships to deliver textbooks. Despite this extremely difficult situation, the project set an ambitious
target of 100% delivery and achieved it.

                                                    13
account Government and IDA contributions). These results compare favorably with the
prospective cost-benefit analysis conducted at the project appraisal. Fourth, fiscal sustainability
will most likely to be maintained as the government has already started budgeting the second
phase of ESDFP with an expanded scope of activities under a similar implementation scheme.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
62. The rating is justified given that all development objectives (themes) were successfully
achieved. Indeed, many of the project outcomes and outputs were achieved beyond project targets,
some of which were even ambitiously increased at the time of the additional financing. The
relevance of the project remains very high, and many activities, therefore, will be taken over to
the second phase of the ESDFP. The efficiency of the project was found to be high based on the
improved internal and the external efficiencies and the positive results of the cost-benefit analysis.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development:
63. Education is closely related to poverty reduction. Among household heads without any
education in Sri Lanka, the incidence of poverty is almost 46% while it is only 18% for those
with secondary education (World Bank 2011). The project identified 68,000 out-of-school
children and brought them back into formal, non-formal, or special education system. If they
were not brought back to school but completed only primary education, their future earnings
would be estimated to be approximately 30% lower than those who completed Grade 9. Further,
many of the indicators show more substantial achievements in poorer provinces, such as Northern
and Eastern provinces. Thus, it can be plausibly assumed that the project had a positive impact on
poverty reduction.

64. The project directly addressed social development aspects through the revision of textbooks
in civics and history, multi-ethnic teacher education and training programs, and co-curricular
activities among children of different ethnic communities. The fact that two ethnic groups
fighting for decades participated in the same activities and expanded them is a remarkable and
commendable achievement for social development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
65. Institutional strengthening was realized mainly by capacity development of central and
provincial officers and strengthening of school management through PSI. The project was
designed to holistically strengthen the capacity of the education system from the central and
provincial officers to school levels. As discussed above, a series of capacity development
programs for officers has had a positive impact on service delivery in the education sector. With
the programs, decentralization and empowerment of local governments (provinces and zones)
were gradually implemented, clarifying roles and responsibilities at different levels. At school
level, PSI has been playing an important role to improve school management. Overall, PSI has
changed the nature of school management involving local communities and stakeholders,
including parents, past pupils and well-wishers, with various aspects of school administration
through School Development Committees. As a result, PSI helped schools to improve the
governance, accountability, and service delivery through the community participation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
66. As the PAD discussed, there is a correlation between education and health outcomes. In
particular, maternal and child health and nutrition outcomes and child, infant and maternal
mortality outcomes are strongly associated with female education. During the project, these

                                                 14
health indicators, too, improved. Teenage (below twenty years old) pregnancy rates in Eastern
province significantly decreased from 17.6 percent in 2005 to 10.8 percent in 2010 (Eastern
Provincial Council, Department of Health, various years). Infant mortality rates decreased from
14.6/1,000 live births to 12.7/1,000 in 2005 and 2009 respectively. Under-five mortality rates also
decreased from 17.1/1,000 to 14.7/1,000 during the same period. Life expectancy at birth
increased from 73.7 to 74.3 between 2005 and 2009. Of course, these positive results primarily
resulted from interventions in health sector by the Government of Sri Lanka with some external
support.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
67. The overall risk to development outcome is rated as “Moderate?. It is highly likely that
the project will not only sustain and maintain all successful outcomes but also strengthen and
build on the achievements, and expand the scope of the operational areas focusing more on
secondary education. In parallel with this evaluation, the government has prepared the second
phase of ESDFP with the Bank team. Given the significant achievements made in the first phase
of ESDFP, the government will continue to use the four themes in ESDFP-I with the same SWAp
modality and aim to further improve the current achievements. The ESDFP-II is currently
prepared to be more results-based, and the third theme of the ESDFP-I, particularly education
sector development plan, will be used as one of the triggers to disburse the funding in the ESDFP-
II. If the current modality, in particular decentralization, continued without major changes in
policy and strengthened the overall capacity in the education sector, the project outcomes would
be most likely sustained and further improved.

68. Nonetheless, the current achievements are not risk free. Although envisaged risks are very
low and unlikely to be triggered, there are several potential risks to be carefully monitored and
mitigated in advance. First, policy support from the central government on decentralization is
crucial for sustainability of the project outcomes. The Finance Commission and the provincial
governments play a crucial role to the project success, particularly on the flow of funds and the
service delivery. In order to maintain the decentralization momentum, the Bank team will
continue to have a high level dialogue and make an advocacy effort, including with the Ministry
of Finance and Planning. The second concern is capacity in the weaker provinces - Northern and
Eastern provinces. Although significant achievements were made by the two provinces,
continuous capacity building efforts are needed to maintain the current trend of development, in
particular in the area of planning, budgeting, administration and monitoring. The ESDFP-II will
continue to pay special attention to the two provinces and invest enough resources on
organizational strengthening. The last potential risk is the complex center-province division of
roles and responsibilities. The ESDFP-I clarified the division of roles and responsibilities, but
there is room for further improvement in implementation. The ESDFP-II will provide technical
support in project management, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and research at all levels,
from the central, to the province, to the zonal, and to the divisional levels.




                                                15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
69. The project followed an ideal preparation process. The project design was partly based
on the Bank’s sector review report in Sri Lanka published in 2005, prior to the project approval. It
served as a guiding principle for the project preparation, covering the entire basic and secondary
education system of the country. Based on the report and lessons learned from the previous two
education projects, project preparation was conducted. Further, the executive summary of the
report was disseminated in three languages, English, Tamil, and Sinhala so that it could reach
many stakeholders. As a result, the project gained public support.

70. In addition to the technical report, there were five other studies conducted during preparation.
These were on: (i) the examination system, (ii) human resource development, (iii) teacher
development, (iv) procurement assessment, and (v) monitoring and evaluation. The flow of funds
for SWAp was separately and intensively discussed, and its modality was fully agreed with the
government.

71. The QER panel acknowledged the high quality of the preparatory work and assessed the
draft PAD as excellent. Therefore, the rating of Satisfactory for Bank performance in ensuring
quality at entry is justifiable.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
72. The Bank team focused on the project outcomes and their impacts on the project
objectives during the project implementation. In order to obtain reliable data, a series of
surveys and studies were embedded in the project design. These were undertaken and produced
reliable information (Annex 2, a list of studies). In some cases, the Bank and international
consultants led the studies, but in many cases, national research institutions and universities
played an important role as a credible third party to monitor and evaluate the project. The Bank’s
main role was to assess the methodologies of the studies and surveys and verify the data on a
sample basis. The results of these studies were used to further improve project implementation.

73. Given the close monitoring of the project progress, the Bank team anticipated the need of
Additional Financing, and it was able to prepare the needful in well advance.

74. At provincial, zonal and school levels, the Bank team played an important role, helping the
central government to provide technical support to provincial governments, verifying the data
provided through the government surveys and studies, and identifying areas for improvement.
Each of four local professionals (professors and ex-government official) was assigned to two
provinces, and they visited their assigned provinces every two months with relevant MOE
officers. The gathered information was brought to the discussion in the joint missions, or earlier if
urgent, that were held twice a year.

75. Implementation support in fiduciary areas was also periodically provided and found no
major issues. However, the audit opinion was qualified for a long period till the end of the last
ISR, due to the weakness in asset management. Although the Bank team continuously followed
up the counterpart, more support to this area could have improved the situation earlier.


                                                 16
76. As part of project transition arrangement, the Bank team prepared another education sector
report, “Transforming School Education in Sri Lanka? in a timely manner. The objectives of the
report were to evaluate overall sector achievements and find room for further improvement, just
as done for the project preparation of ESDFP-I. Indeed, many of the findings from the report were
fed into the design of the ESDFP-II.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
77. Both the Bank performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry and the Quality of Supervision is
rated Satisfactory. Hence, Overall Bank Performance is also rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

78. The government commitment to the project had been consistently strong both at Central
and Provincial levels through the project period, and it was underpinned by the fact that all
outcomes, except for bilingual education, were fully achieved. One of the salient features of the
Government’s strong commitment was that it supported decentralization of some of its
administrative power to Provinces through the Finance Commission. This has created strong
ownership at provincial levels and increase efficiency in fund flows and service delivery.

79. The government also effectively exercised its leadership to hold a series of consultative
meetings with a wide range of stakeholders. This helped the government realize education
policies such as PSI which was initially opposed by several groups but eventually fully supported
by all stakeholders.

80. The government has a long term vision in education sector, and it helped the transition
arrangements. Transition arrangements were conducted with the Bank team. The government and
the Bank team prepared a sector review report, based on which the government started designing
the second phase of ESDFP.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
81. Rigorous and regular monitoring of the project indicators by implementing agencies
(MoE and FC) significantly contributed to the project success. A salient feature of the strong
commitment to the project objectives was the monthly high level monitoring meeting chaired by
the Secretary, Ministry of Education. The meeting was attended by all relevant high government
officials. Taking into account project progress and targets, the meetings identified issues, and the
agreed measures were implemented at both Central and Provincial levels in a timely manner. The
issues discussed at the high level monitoring meetings were based on the information gathered
during periodic visits (every two months) to provinces, zones, and schools by the MoE and the
Bank team. As discussed in the section on Bank Performance, the rigorous monitoring enabled
the MoE to timely anticipate the need of Additional Financing and prepare the needful for it.

82. Continued improvement in human resources at implementing agencies significantly
supported the project implementation. Human Resource Development initially started slowly.
However, it gradually improved as the project moved forward. By the time of the Mid Term
Review, the implementation of the Human Resource Development Plan had commenced with key
staff in NIE and MOE trained in their professional areas, e.g., curriculum design and evaluation,

                                                17
research and planning, EMIS, school based management, etc, in foreign countries. The
operational aspects of the project, particularly in the accounting and payment work at both MoE
and FC have been also considerably strengthened. This is mainly due to hiring senior
procurement officers and consultants. One year before the project closure, five-year HRD plans
had been already prepared by all the provinces based on needs analysis. Hence, decentralization
has been further accelerated, and the zonal and divisional capacity was strengthened with the
technical assistant provided by the TSU of the FC.

83. Overall, despite the expansion of the project scope by Additional Financing, the MoE was
able to timely and successfully complete the project meeting or exceeding most targets without
any major issues. Further the transaction arrangement for the second phase of the ESDFP was
very smooth, and it was already approved by the Bank Board in November, 2011.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
84. The overall rating for borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory above.

6. Lessons Learned
85. There are many critical lessons learned from this successful project. This section highlights
five key ingredients for successful project.

    i. SWAp – using a country system: If a sector capacity allows, the SWAp is a powerful
       instrument to increase the ownership of the program and improve the overall sector
       capacity. Since the Bank funds in SWAps are fungible, the focus of the Bank support was
       to monitor and evaluate the overall education outcomes and the consistency of fiduciary
       activities. Hence, a strong monitoring and evaluation mechanism is a prerequisite for a
       SWAp.

    ii. Decentralization: The capacity of the provincial education authorities was substantially
        strengthened by the TSU of the FC. More responsibilities and administrative powers were
        given to provinces. At the same time, the TSU clarified their key responsibilities.
        Provincial education authorities were supported through bi-monthly visit by the TSU,
        MoE officials, and the Bank team. This decentralization enhanced the ownership and
        efficiency of project implementation.

   iii. Empowering Schools: The impact evaluation clearly shows that the quality and
        efficiency of the service delivery has been enhanced through the PSI. Involving the
        parents, graduates, local communities, etc in the school administrative management can
        improve the accountability and the transparency of the school management, which can
        result in improving efficiency of service delivery.

   iv. Monitoring and Evaluation: A strong monitoring and evaluation mechanism is a key for
       project success. The high level monthly monitoring meeting was possible because of the
       robust data monitoring systems with the strong support from high officials of the
       government. The high level government officials were able to make a strategic decision
       based on the evidence, which were rigorously evaluated by technical staff in the
       government as well as external professionals.

   v. Consolidation of facts: The project is sandwiched by two education sector review reports.
        These two reports served as an intensive evaluation of the past performance of the
        education sector in the country and as a guiding principle for the country’s education

                                               18
        sector in coming years. Both reports were completed not only by the Bank staff but also
        contributions from the government officials and national and international experts. This
        creates a virtuous circle in country’s education program, periodically monitoring and
        evaluating the progress of the sector and feeding the findings to strengthening education
        policy framework.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
86. The borrower’s ICR (attached in Annex 7) rightly pointed out room for improvement
particularly in fiduciary aspects, e.g., lengthy procedures of procurement, accounting system and
audit issues, some of which were also raised in this ICR. The issues were gradually remedied
during the project implementation period. The second phase of the Education Sector
Development Program (Transforming School Education as the Foundation of a Knowledge Hub)
is expected to pay special attention to the fiduciary aspects.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                               19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Theme (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                  Appraisal
                                  Appraisal      Estimates for              Actual/Latest
                                                                                                 Percentage of
             Themes             Estimate (USD Additional                    Estimate (USD
                                                                                                Both Appraisals
                                   millions)      Financing                    millions)
                                                (USD millions)
Promoting Equitable Access to Basic
                                                15.00               2.50             18.19              104%
and Secondary Education
Improving the Quality of Education              15.00               2.50             18.19              104%
Enhancing the Economic Efficiency
                                                15.00               2.50             18.18              104%
and Equity of Resource Allocation
Strengthening Education Governance
                                                15.00               2.50             18.18              104%
and Service Delivery
             Total Baseline Cost               60.00              10.00              72.74              104%
Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                 0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00
              Total Project Costs              60.00              10.00              72.74              104%
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00               0.00              0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00               0.00              0.00               .00
      Total Financing Required                 60.00              10.00              72.41              104%
Note: Cost estimates and actual costs by themes are indicative. The project used SWAp. Hence, the IDA
funding was integrated into the government expenditures, which cannot be distinguishable by themes.

(b) Financing
       Source of Funds               Type of Appraisal Add. Fin Actual/Late Percentage
Borrower                           Cofinancin Estimate
                                                    0.00            0.00     st Estimate
                                                                                 0.00           of
                                                                                               .00
IDA Grant                               g          (USD
                                                   60.00           10.00        (USD
                                                                                72.41       Appraisal
                                                                                              104%
                                                 millions)                    millions)
Note: As the program is SWAp, the government funding, i.e., the government expenditures for general
education, was the major source for the ESDFP. USD 2.41 million (4% difference) is due to fluctuated
exchange rates between USD and SDR.




                                                   20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Theme

 This annex presents detailed information on outcomes and outputs under the four themes. It first
 provides outcomes and outputs from the original PAD and then shows additional achievements
 from the additional financing. Further, other supplemental project outcomes are provided in the
 last section. While the achievements are aggregated at national level, they also show, whenever
 applicable, the outcomes/outputs disaggregated by provincial level.

I. OUTCOME INDICATORS (Original PAD)
  1. Net Enrolment Rates (Ages 6-14): NER data cannot be accurately calculated at this point of
     the time as the population data have not been collected for a decade due to prolonged
     conflicts. The next census is expected to be conducted in 2012, based on which MoE will be
     able to calculate NER.

 2. Survival rates through grade 9: The survival rates through the end of grade 9 dramatically
     increased from the baseline (2005). Further, all provinces exceeded their targets in survival
     rates through grade 9. The main reasons for this sharp increase in the survival rates include
     the activation of school attendance committee monitoring students’ attendance at school level,
     the introduction of school feeding programs to attract poor children, and the strengthening
     special education and non-formal education programs embedded in this project.

     Figure 2.1: Survival Rates
                                             95
        Survival Rates through Grade 9 (%)




                                                                    91
                                             90


                                             85
                                                                          Actual
                                             80
                                                                          Target
                                                        78
                                             75


                                             70
                                                  Baseline   2010

     Source: School Census, Ministry of Education

     Table2.1: Survival rates through grade 9 by province
      Province         Baseline 2010 Target Achievement
      Western                85     93        92   101%
      Central                77     94        88   107%
      Southern               84     94        91   103%
      North Western          78     91        88   103%
      Nothern                66     83        80   104%
      Eastern                66     87        80   109%
      North Central          81     90        89   101%
      Uva                    72     90        84   107%
      Sabaragamuwa           79     91        88   103%
      Sri Lanka              78     91        88  103%
     Source: School Census, Ministry of Education



                                                                     21
3. Cognitive achievement scores in first language (Sinhalese or Tamil) Grade 4: The target
   was successfully achieved. All provinces exceeded the targets. Especially, the post conflicted
   areas in Northern and Eastern provinces showed the remarkable progress.

       Figure2.2: Cognitive achievement scores in first language
                        90
                        80                             83
                        70         69
                        60
          Test Scores




                        50
                                                                     Actual
                        40
                        30                                           Target
                        20
                        10
                         0
                             Baseline           2009

       Source: NEREC

       Table 2.2 Cognitive achievement scores in first language (Sinhalese or Tamil) by
       province10
        Province              Baseline   2009   Target      Achievement
        Western                     82     86       86             100%
        Central                     67     79       73             108%
        Southern                    72     86       76             113%
        North Western               75     87       79             110%
        Northern                    61     84       66             127%
        Eastern                     58     74       64             115%
        North Central               71     83       75             111%
        Uva                         64     80       70             114%
        Sabaragamuwa                71     87       76             114%
        Sri Lanka                   69     83       73             114%
       Source: NEREC




10
     Proportion of students achieving higher than 50%

                                                            22
4. Cognitive achievement scores in mathematics: Learning outcomes in mathematics also
   improved overall by 15% in achievement scores. As in the case of first language, the
   Northern and the Eastern provinces showed significant improvements in mathematics.

       Figure 2.3: Cognitive achievement scores in mathematics
                        90
                        80                             82
                        70
                                   67
                        60
          Test Scores




                        50
                                                                      Actual
                        40
                        30                                            Target
                        20
                        10
                        0
                             Baseline           2009

       Source: NEREC

       Table 2.3: Cognitive achievement scores in mathematics by province11
        Province             Baseline   2009   Target       Achievement
        Western                    81     86       85             102%
        Central                    64     77       69             111%
        Southern                   71     85       75             114%
        North Western              74     86       78             111%
        Northern                   53     79       59             135%
        Eastern                    52     70       59             119%
        North Central              72     82       76             108%
        Uva                        63     81       68             119%
        Sabaragamuwa               69     87       74             118%
        Sri Lanka                  67     82       71             115%
       Source: NEREC




11
     Proportion of students achieving higher than 50%

                                                            23
II. RESULTS INDICATORS BY THEME (Original PAD)
   A. Theme One: Increase Equitable Access to Basic and Secondary Education
   5. Number and percentage of children aged 6-14 enrolled in the education system and
      completing the basic education (grade 1-9) cycle: This indicator was evaluated by the
      number of out-of-school children reduced, as indicated in the PAD. The number exceeded the
      target by more than 35%. As shown in the graph below, the number of out-of-school children
      going back to school has been continuously increasing. In particular, the special target
      province, the Eastern province, showed substantial improvements.

      Figure 2.4: Number of Out-of-School Children Reduced 2006-2010
                                            80,000

                                            70,000
         Number of Out-of-School Children




                                                                                                        67,708
                                            60,000
                                                                                             57,024
                                            50,000                                                      50,000

                                            40,000                                41,006                          Actual

                                            30,000                                                                Target
                                                                       24,073
                                            20,000

                                            10,000          11,234

                                                0
                                                     2006       2007       2008       2009       2010

      Source: Provincial Education Authorities, various years

      Table 2.4: The number of out-of-school children decreased by province
       Province          Target     2006      2007      2008   2009                                                2010     Total   Achievement
       Western            8,472    2,452     1,559     2,066  2,598                                               2,372    11,047          130%
       Central            6,156    1,390     1,290     1,056  1,117                                                 751     5,604           91%
       Southern           4,704    2,108     1,764     2,332  2,252                                               1,054     9,510          202%
       North Western      5,662      574       880     1,574  1,381                                                 567     4,976           88%
       Northern           6,063      693       674     1,799  1,696                                               1,437     6,299          104%
       Eastern            6,064      693     3,966     4,778  4,521                                               2,023    15,981          264%
       North Central      2,988      432       285     1,132    615                                                 845     3,309          111%
       Uva                5,034    1,336       861     1,137    938                                                 663     4,935           98%
       Sabaragamuwa       4,857    1,556     1,560     1,059    900                                                 972     6,047          125%
       Sri Lanka         50,000 11,234 12,839 16,933 16,018                                                      10,684    67,708         135%
      Source: Provincial Education Authorities, various years




                                                                                           24
  B. Theme Two: Improve the Quality of Basic and Secondary Education
  6. Learning competencies over the basic and secondary education cycles clearly specified
     and communicated to schools: Both Syllabi and Teacher Instructional Manuals (TIMs) were
     all revised and updated at all specified grades accordingly to the plans specified in PAD. The
     TIMs were distributed to all schools. Further, since the project initiation, the number of In-
     Service Advisor (ISAs) trained dramatically increased. They helped teachers at school to
     provide practical guidance on pedagogy.

      Figure 2.5: Syllabi Completed 2006-10




Source: National Institute of Education, various years

      Figure 2.6: Teacher Instructional Manuals (TIMs) Completed 2006-10




Source: National Institute of Education, various years

      Table 2.5: Schools with Teaching Plans
         Province      2008 2009 2010
       PAD Target      30% 40%          50%
       Achievement 62% 77% 100%
      Source: National Institute of Education

      Table 2.6: Number of In-Service Advisors (ISAs) Trained
       Province                   2005        2006          2007     2008     2009     2010
       Western                     659       2,766         2,256    2,548    4,968    4,937
       Central                     451       2,337         2,394    2,491    3,220    3,065
       Southern                    459       2,286         2,403    2,435    3,755    2,476
       North Western               462       2,513         2,320    2,322    3,771    2,490
       Nothern                      28       1,484         1,327    1,463    2,642    3,134
       Eastern                      17       1,585         1,476    1,798    2,839    1,123
       North Central               436       2,326         2,249    2,156    2,835    1,467
       Uva                         381       2,324         2,035    2,196    3,097    1,454
       Sabaragamuwa                372       2,315         2,245    2,260    3,285    1,633
       Sri Lanka                 3,265      19,936        18,705   19,669   30,412   21,779
     Source: National Institute of Education




                                                         25
7. Schools staffed with graduates or certified teachers, and supported by a high quality
   teacher development system

   Figure 2.7: Schools staffed with graduates or certified teachers 2006 -2010
                                                     120
       Schools Staffed eith graduates or certified


                                                     100                               97
                                                                           97                      96          96          95
                                                                                                                           90
                  trained teachers (%)




                                                     80         80

                                                     60                                                                         Actual
                                                                                                                                Target
                                                     40


                                                     20


                                                      0
                                                           Baseline 2006        2007        2008        2009        2010

   Source: Provincial education authorities, various years
   Table 2.7: Schools staffed with graduates or certified teachers, and supported by a high
   quality teacher development system by province
    Province          Baseline 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Target achievement
    Western             N/A        99      99      99      99 98     N/A           N/A
    Central             N/A        97      91      92      93 92     N/A           N/A
    Southern            N/A        98      99      99      99 99     N/A           N/A
    North Western       N/A        98      99      98      95 95     N/A           N/A
    Nothern             N/A        91      95      97      97 94     N/A           N/A
    Eastern             N/A        93      96      97      95 95     N/A           N/A
    North Central       N/A        98      99      88      92 93     N/A           N/A
    Uva                 N/A        98      95      90      90 90     N/A           N/A
    Sabaragamuwa        N/A        98      97      97      96 96     N/A           N/A
    Sri Lanka            80        97      97      96      96 95      90          106%
   Source: Provincial education authorities, various years
   Note: Since NP&EP was considered as one unit in 2006, NP data was unable to be separated.

8. Quantity, on time delivery and quality of textbooks available to children: The Education
   Publications Department organized a series of workshops to improve the quality of the
   textbooks in 2008 and 2009. In total, 38 workshops took place, inviting all relevant
   stakeholders, including professors, teachers, subject directors, NIE officers, and media. In
   2009, textbook writers were selected through written exams and interviews. They also
   participated in training workshops. As a result, defects in textbooks were identified and
   factual errors of textbooks were corrected.

   On time delivery of textbooks reached 100% and exceeded the target. There used to be a
   large disparity across the country in receiving textbooks on time. All textbooks are now
   delivered on time, in January every year when the new session starts. This is mainly because
   of effective government interventions. First, the government developed land routes for
   textbook delivery to the Northern and the Eastern provinces where textbooks had been
   delivered by ship due to conflicts. Textbooks are now more efficiently distributed to the two
   provinces. Second, re-use policy is effective. While the percentage in reusing textbooks was
   about 8-12% before 2008, that increased to approximately 23-25%. Third, the physical

                                                                                                         26
condition of the textbook distribution system has improved by building a new store complex
which is funded by the project. This makes the distribution of textbooks more efficient.

Figure 2.8: Quantity, on time delivery and quality of textbook available to children
2007-2010
                                       100.0                                    100           100
                                        90.0                        90
   On-time delivery of textbooks (%)




                                        80.0
                                                        75
                                        70.0
                                        60.0
                                        50.0                                                              Actual
                                        40.0                                                              Target
                                        30.0
                                        20.0
                                        10.0
                                         0.0
                                                 2007        2008        2009          2010

Source: Education Publications Department, various years

Table 2.8: Procedures adopted to improve on time delivery of text books
                                               Main activities                  2005   2006         2007 2008 2009 2010
                                                                                       8
                                                                                       Provin
 Establishing Provincial level text book store                                         cial
                                                                                       stores

 Developing new text book order registers

 Introducing text book distribution centers to
 streamline the distribution process

 Conducting Zonal level awareness
 programmes

 Department coordinating officer for each
 province

 Mobile distribution service to complete the
 shortages
Source: Education Publications Department, 2011




                                                                           27
   Table 2.9: Procedures adopted to improve the content quality of text books
      Main activities       2005         2006          2007            2008            2009            2010
     Introducing and   Gr.6-9 text   For Gr.6 and For Gr.7 and    For Gr.8 text    For Gr.9 text Continuation
     dissemination of books          10 text      11 text         books (In        books (In     of quality
     Text book quality (MBO)         books (SBO) books (In        house            house         standards
     standards                                    house           Publications)    Publications)
                                                  Publications)
                                                                  01 day           2 day           2 day
     Training
                                                                  training         training        training
     workshops for
                                                                  session (250     session (250    session (300
     writers
                                                                  participants)    participants)   participants)
     Workshops to edit                                            13 two day       24 two/three    22
     the text books                                               workshops        day             workshops
     with teachers,                                               350              workshops       760
     subject specialists                                          participants     2600            participants
     and university                                               (320             participants
     lecturers , to                                               teachers , 22
     improve the                                                  subject
     content quality of                                           specialists, 8
     text books                                                   university
                                                                  personnel )
    Final approval by                              One day        One day          Two day          Two day
    university                                     session        session          session         session
    professors
    Workshops to edit                                                                              10
    grade 6 and 10                                                                                 workshops
    text books with                                                                                60
    special reference                                                                              participants
    to English
    medium books
    Introducing                                                                    circular
    school level text                                                              no.EPD/a
    book evaluation                                                                /01
    boards
   Source: Education Publications Department, 2011

9. Examination item bank developed: This sub-indicator was fully achieved. DoE developed
   two sets of documents: Part I. Structure and Prototype and Part II. Guidelines. For O/L, the
   Part I document was developed for all subjects (core and non-core) and disseminated to 100%
   schools in 2008. For A/L, it was developed for core subjects and disseminated to 100%
   schools in 2011.

   Table 2.10 Examination Item Bank Developed 2007-2010
    YEAR          2007 2008 2009        2010
    PAD Target 25% 50% 75%             100%
    O/L           21% 49% 78%          100%
    A/L           27% 57% 82%          107%
   Source: Department of Examination




                                                28
Examination guidelines specified: This sub-indicator was fully achieved. The Part II
document (Guidelines) was developed under this sub-them. The guidelines were developed
for all O/L core subjects and distributed in 2008 and 2009 for 100% schools. (This was not
required for A/L)

Table 2.11: Examination Guidelines Specified
 Sinhala        8/30/08
 Tamil          8/30/08
 English       10/15/09
 Science        8/30/08
 Mathematics    8/30/08
 History        7/15/09
 5 religions     7/6/09
Source: Department of Examination

(e) Examination guidelines communicated (distributed) to schools and stakeholders:
This sub-indicator was fully achieved. All O/L subjects (core & non-core) were distributed in
June 2008. A/L core subjects in 7 volumes were distributed in 2011. This slight delay was
mainly because it had to wait for the new curriculum changes to take place.




                                           29
C. Theme Three: Enhance the Efficiency and Equity of Resource Allocation and Distribution in the Education Sector

10. All three indicators under the Theme three reached the targets. Although nationally aggregated data are not available, the three indicators
     under Theme three seem to have reached the targets given the fact that most of the provinces met or exceeded their targets in 2011.
     Table 2.12: Targets and Budgets under Theme Three
        Policy target            Agency                                    Targets and performance (achievements) as a percentage
                                 /Prov.         2006                2007                 2008                 2009                 2010                2011
                                          Target    Budget    Target    Budget     Target    Budget    Target     Budget     Target    Budget    Target    Budget
 The recurrent education         MoE         2.00      2.85      2.20      7.69       2.40      2.49       2.70       3.15      3.00      4.55     3. 20      4.60
 budget prioritized to support   WP          2.00      3.70      2.20      2.30       2.40      3.40       2.70       3.50      3.00      4.60     3. 20      4.50
 higher-order processes (i.e.    CP          2.00      2.50      2.20      2.50       2.40      2.50       2.70       2.70      3.00      3.00     3. 20      3.00
 teacher development and         SP          2.00      2.30      2.20      3.30       2.40      3.10       2.70       2.80      3.00      3.00     3. 20      3.20
 capacity building of school     NP          2.00         -      2.20      3.70       2.40      4.10       2.70       4.20      3.00      4.30     3. 20      4.00
 principals and education
                                 EP          2.00      3.70      2.20      3.90       2.40      3.40       2.70       3.40      3.00      2.90     3. 20      3.00
 officials), and higher-order
 inputs (i.e. consumables,       NWP         2.00      2.50      2.20      2.50       2.40      2.40       2.70       3.10      3.00      3.50     3. 20      2.20
 teaching and learning           NCP         2.00      2.20      2.20      3.50       2.40      2.40       2.70       2.70      3.00      3.00     3. 20      3.10
 materials):                     UP          2.00      2.00      2.20      2.20       2.40      2.40       2.70       2.40      3.00      3.00     3. 20      2.70
                                 SaP         2.00      2.10      2.20      2.20       2.40      2.60       2.70       2.70      3.00      3.00     3. 20      3.20
 The capital education           MoE       30.00      35.00    32.00      55.11      35.00     40.60      37.00      39.59     40.00     45.00    42.00     45.50
 budget prioritized to support   WP        30.00      17.20    32.00      50.00      35.00     37.10      37.00      46.70     40.00     45.00    42.00      41.50
 the development of: (a)         CP        30.00      30.00    32.00      31.70      35.00     35.00      37.00      40.00     40.00     40.00    42.00       9.00
 higher-order learning           SP        30.00      28.50    32.00      19.80      35.00     20.10      37.00      36.90     40.00     44.20    42.00      45.10
 spaces, and (b) higher-order    NP        30.00          -    32.00      78.50      35.00     73.80      37.00      71.00     40.00     67.00    42.00      65.40
 capital assets:
                                 EP        30.00      39.20    32.00      77.90      35.00     49.40      37.00      38.60     40.00     42.00    42.00      41.40
                                 NWP       30.00      33.30    32.00      32.60      35.00     33.10      37.00      36.10     40.00     42.00    42.00      47.50
                                 NCP       30.00      31.70    32.00      36.50      35.00     35.10      37.00      32.10     40.00     43.90    42.00      40.30
                                 UP        30.00      30.00    32.00      32.00      35.00     35.00      37.00      29.50     40.00     26.40    42.00       N/A
                                 SaP       30.00      31.90    32.00      48.80      35.00     39.80      37.00      66.10     40.00     40.00    42.00      51.50
 Resource allocated for          MoE       10.00      15.00    12.00      24.04      14.00     18.96      15.00      17.00     15.00    15.30     15.00     15.15
 replacement of the              WP        10.00       4.00    12.00      11.30      14.00     13.90      15.00      18.20     15.00     18.70    15.00      24.10
 education capital stocks        CP        10.00      10.00    12.00      11.80      14.00     14.00      15.00      15.00     15.00     14.50    15.00      15.00
                                 SP        10.00      20.90    12.00      14.90      14.00     23.90      15.00      14.90     15.00     16.30    15.00      15.40
                                 NP        10.00          -    12.00      10.70      14.00     29.00      15.00      21.10     15.00     37.80    15.00      28.50
                                 EP        10.00      12.30    12.00      12.90      14.00     15.30      15.00      18.30     15.00     31.80    15.00      17.90
                                 NWP       10.00       9.60    12.00      14.20      14.00     19.80      15.00      15.40     15.00     17.00    15.00      15.70
                                 NCP       10.00      14.30    12.00      15.10      14.00     15.60      15.00      14.70     15.00     13.90    15.00      16.90
                                 UP        10.00      10.00    12.00      12.00      14.00     20.20      15.00      10.60     15.00     10.60    15.00       4.40
                                 SaP       10.00      30.10    12.00      21.80      14.00     21.20      15.00      22.10     15.00     14.90    15.00      20.60
Source: Ministry of Education, various years.
Note: 2006 allocation provided for both NP and EP together.




                                                                                      30
D. Theme Four: Strengthen Education Service Delivery

11. The Program for School Improvement (PSI) pilot tested and evaluated, and established
    country-wide after incorporating lessons from the pilot programs: The project reached
    100% target covering all zones (93zones) in the country. Further, an impact evaluation of
    PSI was conducted by the Bank team and professors in economics in the US and Sri Lanka.
    The report shows positive impacts of PSI (World Bank, 2011).

    Figure: 2.9: Number of Zones Implemented PSI Pilot 2006-2011
                                          100
                                           90                                                                     93
        Number of Zones Implemented PSI




                                           80
                                           70                                                         72

                                           60
                                           50                                                                                 Actual
                                                                                          44
                                           40                                                                                 Target
                                                                              35
                                           30
                                           20
                                                                  17
                                           10          8
                                           0
                                                2006       2007        2008        2009        2010        2011

    Source: Finance Commission, various years

   The Program for School Improvement pilot tested and evaluated, and established
   country-wide after incorporating lessons from the pilot programs by province (Number
   of zones)
   Table 2.13: Number of Zones Implemented PSI Pilot 2006-2011 by Province
    Province         Target 2006 2007 2008                                                      2009        2010       2011    Total   Achievement
    Western              11      1       1    2                                                    1           2          4      11       100%
    Central              15      1       1    2                                                    1           7          3      15       100%
    Southern             11      1       1    2                                                    1           4          2      11       100%
    North Western         8      1       1    2                                                    1           3                   8      100%
    Nothern              12      1       1    2                                                    1           2         5       12       100%
    Eastern              13      0       1    2                                                    1           2         7       13       100%
    North Central         8      1       1    2                                                    1           3                   8      100%
    Uva                   8      1       1    2                                                    1           3                   8      100%
    Sabaragamuwa          7      1       1    2                                                    1           2                   7      100%
    Sri Lanka            93      8       9   18                                                    9          28         21      93       100%
   Source: Finance Commission, various years

12. Organizational capacity review of the Ministry of Education, provincial, zonal and
    divisional education authorities completed.

   The review was successfully completed with follow up actions. The Sri Lanka Institute of
   Development Administration (SLIDA) carried out the assessment of the human resource




                                                                                           31
       capacity at provincial and zonal levels, requested by the Finance Commission (FC).12 The
       report candidly pointed out the constraints of human resources and administrative difficulties.
       Based on the findings, SLIDA provided the FC with practical advice for capacity
       development for provincial and zonal officers, and they were provided trainings for capacity
       building.

       The main findings include, inter alia, (i) ambiguity of functions and responsibilities between
       national and provincial authorities, and between provincial institutions, (ii) weak capacity in
       developing strategies at the high level of the provincial governments, (iii) duplications in
       functions between provincial and zonal levels, (iv) weak capacity of staff particularly in the
       North and the East provinces, (v) lack of human resource development plan and its budget at
       provincial level, and (vi) lack of proper policies and procedures.

13. A long-term human resource development plan produced and forms the basis for staff
    development in the national Ministry of Education and among the Provincial Education
    Ministries. Core skills to be emphasized are: planning, budgeting, administration and
    monitoring.

Table 2.14: Training and workshops
                                                                          Number        Actual exp. Rs.
     Year                          Programme.
                                                                          trained          Million
              ISAA and Subject Directors, Principals Mentors and
     2006     teachers training programme.                                 19,936            140
              ISAA and Subject Directors, Principals Mentors and
     2007     teachers training programme.                                 18,705             13
              ISAA and Subject Directors, Principals Mentors and
     2008     teachers training programme.                                 19,669            13.7
     2009     ISAA and A/L Teachers training programme.                    30,412            21.2
     2010     ISAA and A/L teachers training programme.                    21,779            15.2
                               TOTAL                                      110,501            203.1
Source: National Institute of Education, 2011

Table 2.15: Long term training programs attended
                                                                                    Number of
       Year                      Programme.                        Duration                          Country
                                                                                    participants
       2009        Advanced training programme in
                   Educational Planning and Management             09 months            01            France
       2010        (i) On-line Postgraduate Certificate
                                                                   12 months            12            USA
                   Course in learning and Development
                   (ii) Master of Science Programme in
                                                                   12 months            02           Malaysia
                   Curriculum and Instruction
                   (iii) M.Phil Programme in English
                                                                   11 months            01            India
                   Education
                   (iv) Advanced training programme in
                                                                   09 months            01            France
                   Educational Planning and Management



12
  The full report, “Report on the Preparation of HRD Plans for the Provincial Education Authorities? (Sri
Lanka Institute of Development Administration 2010) is available from this ICR’s authors upon request.
The contents of the short-term and long term trainings taken by staff in all provinces are also available
upon request.


                                                      32
 2010/2011     Master of Science program in curriculum
                                                             12 months           01           France
               and instruction
Source: National Institute of Education, 2011

Table 2.16: Short term training programs/study visits attended
                                                                            Number of
   Year                        Programme.                    Duration                        Country
                                                                            Participants
    2008      (i) Leadership Development and Financial
                                                              12 days            10          Thailand
              Management
              (ii) Curriculum, Research and Evaluation        12 days            11           Korea
              (iii) Competency Based Curriculum
                                                              12 days            18          Malaysia
              Design and Evaluation
              (iv) Leadership Development and
                                                              12 days            14          Thailand
              Financial Management
   2009       (i) Leadership Development and Financial
                                                              12 days            14          Thailand
              Management
              (ii) Curriculum Design Development and
                                                              10 days            14            India
              Evaluation
Source: National Institute of Education, 2011

Table 2.17: Short term training programs by Education Publications Department

                                                                                           Actual exp.
           Programme                Duration   Year      Country         Institute
                                                                                             (Rs.m)

Intensive course on book editing


                                                                    Institute of book
                                      7 days   2008       India                               0.36
                                                                       publishing




Training programme on Network
security                                                            Asian Institute of
                                     3 weeks   2009      Thailand      technology             0.82
                                                                          (AIT)
2nd Intensive course on book
editing
                                                                    Institute of book
                                      7 days   2009       India                               0.40
                                                                       publishing

22nd Condensed course for
publishing professionals
                                                                    Institute of book
                                     10 Days   2009       India                               0.51
                                                                       publishing

Source: Educational Publications Department, 2011




                                                    33
   Table 2.18: Human Resources Development (foreign) by Department of Examinations
               Course                      Institution                                       Participants        Duration       Year
    Item Writing                   ETS-USA                                                      6                3 weeks     2006
    Guidelines                     AUC- Canada                                                  6                3 weeks     2006
    Online Exams                   Singapore                                                    1                5 Days      2007
    M.Sc                           Canada                                                       2                1 ½ years   2007- 2008
    M.Sc                           Australia                                                    1                1 ½ years   2007-2008
    Pre-Press & Printing           LCC-UK                                                      5                 3 weeks     2008
    Computer Branch                OUM- Malaysia                                                4                3 weeks     2009
    Test development & Reporting (completed)
                                   OUM- Malaysia                                                8                3 weeks     2009
    Online Examinations            ETI- Australia                                               4                3 weeks     2009
    M.Sc                           Canada                                                       2                1 years     2010-2011
    Item Scaling and Item Banking Melbourne Uni. Australia                                      6                3 weeks     2011
   Source: Department of Examinations, 2011

   Table 2.19: Local Training by Department of Examinations
                     Course                                                  Institution         2006    2007      2008   2009    2010 Total
    Diploma in English                                                      SLIDA                 01      09        01                  11
    Diploma in ICT                                                          SLIDA/IBM             02      02         -                  04
    Basic Statistics                                                        SLIDA                 02       -         -                  02
    Diploma in ICT                                                          SLIDA                                            01         01
    Training Programme in Graphic Designing                                 ACTA                                                  05      05
   Source: Department of Examinations, 2011

III. RESULTS INDICATORS BY COMPONEN (Additional Financing)
    A. Theme One: Increase Equitable Access to Basic and Secondary Education
    14. Expand Access to Bilingual (English medium) education: The target was partially
        achieved. Until 2010, the annual target was met each year of the project. However, MOE
        decided in 2010 that it would not expand the bilingual education to originally targeted 1,000
        schools. The main reason for this was that there was not adequate number of teachers who
        could support the system and expand beyond what was achieved in 2010. This was a strategic
        decision made by MOE, and the Bank team endorsed it.

       Figure 2.10: Number of Secondary Schools with Bilingual Education 2008-2011
                                           1000                                                  1,000
                                            900
           providing bilingual education
           Number of secondary school




                                                                                                 867
                                            800                                     800
                                            700
                                            600                       601
                                            500                                                                 Actual
                                            400          428
                                                                                                                Target
                                            300
                                            200
                                            100
                                              0
                                                  2008         2009          2010         2011

       Source: Ministry of Education, various years




                                                                                    34
    Table 2.20: Expand Access to Bilingual (English medium) education by province
     Province          Target 2008 2009 2010                                       2011    Achievement
     Western            N/A      137     172     206                                233        N/A
     Central            N/A        47      63     99                                139        N/A
     Southern           N/A        42      62     81                                 76        N/A
     North Western      N/A        45      62     94                                 94        N/A
     Nothern            N/A        32      49     75                                 80        N/A
     Eastern            N/A        31      60     67                                 60        N/A
     North Central      N/A        25      36     43                                 26        N/A
     Uva                N/A        32      42     58                                 50        N/A
     Sabaragamuwa       N/A        37      55     77                                109        N/A
     Sri Lanka           1,000   428     601     800                                867       87%
    Source: Ministry of Education, various years

15. Increase Category 2, Category 3 and conflict affected schools with essential school
    facilities, such as water and sanitation. The school environment in student health has
    dramatically improved and far exceeded the targets.

    Figure 2.11: Number of schools certified as health promoting schools
                                               4,500
       Number of schools certified as health




                                               4,000                                             4,029
                                                                           3,728
                                               3,500
              promoting schools




                                               3,000
                                               2,500
                                                                                                              Actual
                                               2,000
                                                                                                              Target
                                               1,500
                                               1,000
                                                                                                 750
                                                500           606

                                                  0
                                                       2009         2010                  2011

    Source: Ministry of Education, various years

    Table 2.21: Number of schools certified as health promoting schools by province
     Province             Target         2009                                   2010          2011       Achievement
     Western              N/A              63                                    372           574          N/A
     Central              N/A              56                                  1,180         1,191          N/A
     Southern             N/A              20                                    573           607          N/A
     North Western        N/A             276                                    405           405          N/A
     Nothern              N/A              20                                     92            92          N/A
     Eastern              N/A             136                                    620           620          N/A
     North Central        N/A                0                                   242           264          N/A
     Uva                  N/A              30                                    163           170          N/A
     Sabaragamuwa         N/A                5                                    81           106          N/A
     Sri Lanka               750          606                                  3,728         4,029             537%
    Source: Ministry of Education, various years




                                                                             35
   Figure 2.12: Number of schools provided with water & sanitation
                                                     2,500


       Number of schools provided with water &       2,000                                              1,984

                                                                                     1,673
                                                     1,500
                     sanitation



                                                                                                                         Actual
                                                     1,000                                                               Target
                                                                        695                             750
                                                      500


                                                        0
                                                                2009          2010               2011

   Source: Ministry of Education, various years

   Table 2.22: Number of schools provided with water & sanitation by province
    Province          Target 2009 2010 2011                                                   Achievement
    Western             N/A       29      94     10                                                   N/A
    Central             N/A       50      92      0                                                   N/A
    Southern            N/A       65     100     26                                                   N/A
    North Western       N/A     109       85      0                                                   N/A
    Nothern             N/A       20     119    125                                                   N/A
    Eastern             N/A       62      47      5                                                   N/A
    North Central       N/A       99      98      2                                                   N/A
    Uva                 N/A       97      65     10                                                   N/A
    Sabaragamuwa        N/A     164      278    133                                                   N/A
    Sri Lanka            750    695 1,673 1,984                                                     265%
   Source: Ministry of Education, various years

B. Theme Two: Improve the Quality of Basic and Secondary Education
16. Cognitive achievement scores in English language
    The target was successfully achieved, and learning outcomes in English has significantly
    improved.

17. Figure 2.13: Cognitive achievement scores in English language
                                         70

                                         60                                              58
                                         50
       Test Scores




                                         40
                                                                   32                                           Actual
                                         30
                                                                                                                Target
                                         20

                                         10

                                                 0
                                                             Baseline            2009

   Source: NEREC




                                                                                       36
   Table 2.23: Cognitive achievement scores in English language by province
    Province           Baseline       2009   Target   Achievement
    Western                  53         74       56         132%
    Central                  32         56       35         160%
    Southern                 36         62       39         160%
    North Western            32         65       35         185%
    Nothern                  23         54       26         208%
    Eastern                  22         42       25         168%
    North Central            29         51       32         158%
    Uva                      27         52       30         173%
    Sabaragamuwa             33         64       36         178%
    Sri Lanka                32         58       35         167%
   Source: NEREC

18. Promoting a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society through the school curriculum
    In 2009, the National Institute of Education established multi-ethnic and multi-cultural
    committees and developed strategic tasks for promotion of a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural
    society. In 2010, two review reports on civics and history curricula for secondary education
    were produced. Although the initial implementation was delayed for a year, all agreed
    activities were completed, and all schools tried to promote the cohesion among different
    ethnicities through the revised curricula.

   Table 2.24: Review and distribution of civics and history curriculum materials to
   secondary schools: 2009-2011
                                                             Preparation of           Number of
                                        Review               civics and history       secondary schools
     Year    Target activity
                                        Completed            curricular               distributed
                                                             completed
             Establish two              Committee
                                                                                                -
     2009    evaluation                 established and                 -
             committees.                arranged the task.
             Preparation of two         Two review
                                                                                                -
     2010    review reports.            reports                         -
                                        completed.
             Preparation of                                  Two revised              Distribution of
             revised curricular for                          curricular for history   curricular material to
             history and civic                               and civic subjects       schools was done by
     2011                                       -
             subjects.                                                                the Dept. of Education
                                                                                      Publications

     Source: National Institute of Education, 2011

C. Theme Three: Enhance the Economic Efficiency and Equity of Resource Allocation
19. The recurrent education budget prioritized to support high-order process
    The additional financing set a higher target. (See paragraph 11 in this annex)

20. The capital education budget prioritized to support the development of higher order
    spaces and assess.
    The additional financing set a higher target. (See paragraph 12 in this annex)

D. Theme Four: Strengthening Education Governance and Service Delivery
21. Promoting multi-ethnic teacher education and training programs



                                                      37
      Table 2.25: Teacher Centers conducted multi-ethnic teacher training
            YEAR              2009          2010       2011
           Actual               41           76           78
           Target               30           45           60
           Achievement          137%         169%       130%
      Source: Provincial education authorities
      Note: The total number of Teacher Centers is100.

   22. Human resource development of civics and history curriculum developers for multi-
       ethnic and multi-cultural social contexts. The National Institute of Education had planned
       human resource development of civics and history. The plan was to improve the capacity of
       two officers in Department of Social Sciences (DoSS) by sending them to a Master’s level
       program focusing on curriculum and instruction development in education sector. Two
       officers at DoSS were sent to University of Putra, Malaysia, and they attended a Master of
       Science Programme in curriculum and instruction and fully completed the program in 2011.

   23. Promoting co-curricular activities among children of different ethnic communities

      Figure 2.14: Number of co-curricular activities among children of different ethnic
      communities 2009-2011
                                               700
          among children of different ethnic




                                                                                            629
            No. of Co-curricular activities




                                               600                       583
                                               500
                    communities




                                               400
                                                            355                             360   Actual
                                               300
                                                                                                  Target
                                               200

                                               100

                                                0
                                                     2009         2010               2011

      Source: Provincial Education Authorities

      Table 2.26: Number of co-curricular activities among children of different ethnic
      communities by province
       Province          Target 2009 2010                                 2011      Achievement
       Western            N/A        2        9                             19          N/A
       Central            N/A       57      74                              74          N/A
       Southern           N/A       11      62                              62          N/A
       North Western      N/A       68      92                              92          N/A
       Nothern            N/A       40      75                              75          N/A
       Eastern            N/A        8      16                              32          N/A
       North Central      N/A       18      28                              28          N/A
       Uva                N/A       36      71                              91          N/A
       Sabaragamuwa       N/A      115     156                             156          N/A
       Sri Lanka            360    355     583                             629            175%
      Source: Provincial Education Authorities

IV. OTHER OUTCOME INDICATORS
   24. Number and percentage of children aged 6-14 years enrolled in formal schooling,
       special education, and non-formal education program



                                                                               38
   There were a significant number of children identified and brought back to school. The table
   below shows the number of out-of-school children back to respective types of schools.

   Table: 2.27: Number and Percentage of Out-of-School Children Back to School
              Formal      Non-Formal        Special
    2006 3,943 35.1 6,830 60.8              461 4.1
    2007 5,906        46 6,638 51.7         295 2.3
    2008 7,738 45.7 8,382 49.5              813 4.8
    2009 6,744 42.1 7,785 48.6 1,490 9.3
    2010 4,103 38.4 5,727 53.6              865 8.1
   Source: Provincial Education Authorities

25. Table 2.28: List of Research Studies Supported by the ESDP
                 Name of Study                                    Institution              Year     Status
National Assessments of Learning Outcomes in            National Education Research and    2006   Completed.
Grade 8 & 10                                            Evaluation Centre
Baseline Survey on PSI schools - A qualitative          National Institute of Education    2006   Completed.
study
National Assessments of Learning Outcomes in            National Education Research and    2007   Completed.
Grade 4                                                 Evaluation Centre
Principals’ School Management and Leadership            Faculty of Education,              2007   Completed.
Capacity                                                The Open University of Sri
                                                        Lanka
A study on instructional strategies used by teachers    Faculty of Education, The Open     2007   Completed.
for development of higher order cognitive skills in     University of Sri Lanka
students
A study on School Based teacher development             Faculty of Education, University   2007   Completed.
programmers                                             of Peradeniya
Options for Expanding Access to Higher Education        National Education Commission      2007   Completed.
for GCE A/L Completers
Relevance of foreign degrees and their contribution     National Education Commission      2007   Completed.
to the socio economic development in Sri Lanka
A Study to design a Credit transferring Mechanism       National Education Commission      2007   Completed.
in the University System in Sri Lanka
Case studies on 7 selected PSI schools                  National Institute of Education    2007   Completed.
Study of the implementation of Mathematics and          National Institute of Education    2007   Completed.
Science Curriculum in Grades 6 & 10
Monitoring & Evaluation of the Gr. 6 &10 new            National Institute of Education    2007   Completed.
curriculum
Review of Examination and Assessment Guidelines         Department of Examinations         2007   Completed.
for GCE O/L Mathematics, Science & First
Language
Island-wide survey to identify non-school going         Non Formal & Special Education     2007   Completed.
children aged 5-14 years                                Branch, Ministry of Education             (Sinhala)
Human Resource Development Policy and Five              Human Resources Development        2007   Completed.
Year Plan for MoE (2007 - 2011)                         Branch, Ministry of Education
Public Expenditure and Quality Education Tracking       Planning and Performance           2007   Completed.
System (PEQETS)                                         Review, Ministry of Education
Identification of training needs of graduate teachers   Management & Quality               2008   Completed.
                                                        Assurance Unit, Ministry of
                                                        Education
A survey on In Service Advisers                         Management & Quality               2008   Completed.
                                                        Assurance Unit, Ministry of
                                                        Education
A survey on timely delivery of free textbooks           Management & Quality               2008   Completed.
                                                        Assurance Unit, Ministry of
                                                        Education



                                                        39
                 Name of Study                                   Institution               Year       Status
Issues related to linkages between University–         National Education Commission       2008    Completed.
Industry partnership programmes
Socio Political impact on the students and staff in    National Education Commission       2008    Completed.
relation to violence and indiscipline in Tertiary
Education Institutes and Universities.
Issues relating to linkages between Technical          National Education Commission       2008    Completed.
Institutions and Industry partnership programmes
National Assessments of Learning Outcomes in           National Education Research and     2009    Completed.
Grade 8.                                               Evaluation Centre
Monitoring & Evaluation of the Grade 7 & 11            National Institute of Education     2009    Completed.
curriculum
An Action Research Approach to Improve Practice        Faculty of Education, The Open      2009    Completed.
of Distance Education                                  University of Sri Lanka
Building an Online Learning Community among            Faculty of Education, The Open      2009    Completed.
Teacher Educators                                      University of Sri Lanka
Action research for school improvement                 Faculty of Education, University    2009    Completed.
                                                       of Peradeniya
National Assessments of Learning Outcomes in          National Education Research and     2009    Completed.
Grade 4                                               Evaluation Center
Survey on Attending Tuition Classes of School         National Education Commission       2010    Completed.
Children in Sri Lanka                                 (NEC)                                       (Sinhala)
A National Study on Student Achievement in            Faculty of Education, Open          2010    Completed
English at Grade 10                                   University of Sri Lanka
Improving the Health, Nutrition and Learning           MOE (SHNU), MOH (FHB),              2010    Completed.
Achievement of Primary School Children in Sri          University of Kelaniya, PCD,
Lanka                                                  Imperial College.
A Situation Analysis of Health and Nutrition           MOE (SHNU), MOH (FHB),              2010    In progress
Problems Affecting School Age Children in Sri          University of Kelaniya, PCD,
Lanka                                                  Imperial College.

Development of a Cognitive Impact Assessment           MOE (SHNU), MOH (FHB),              2010    In progress
Tool for the National School Health and Nutrition      University of Kelaniya, PCD,
Programme in Sri Lanka.                                Imperial College.
Reforming of the Finance Commission in the             Independent Consultants (Local      2011    Completed
Context of Rational Devolution                         Professors)




                                                       40
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Internal Efficiency
1. Overall, the internal efficiency of the basic education (Grades 1 to 9) improved. Many
indicators of the basic education in Sri Lanka were already very good in 2005. Despite “the last
mile problem?, the project helped the country continue to improve the internal efficiency. The
survival rate through grade 9 increased from 78 percent to 91 percent from 2005 to 2010,
respectively. Further, the percentage of repeaters in primary (all grades) decreased from 0.95% in
2006 to 0.87% in 2009 (UNESCO Institute of Statistics, 2011). The downside of the internal
efficiency is that the student-teacher ratio remains low at 18:1. This is a low student-teacher ratio
which is expensive to maintain.

2. Public recurrent costs per student in basic education increased in real terms (Constant 2002)
from Rs. 7,168 to Rs. 8,719 in 2006 and 2009 respectively. This is not unusual when virtually all
children go to primary education and complete it. Most of the students continued their study after
primary education and moved to secondary (grades 6 to 13), which is more costly than primary
education but more profitable in later years. A cost benefit analysis in a later section shows the
benefits of the public investment of the project.

External Efficiency
3. External efficiency of education can be evaluated by the degree of the relevance of education
to the socio-economic conditions. There was an improvement in employment rates at all
education levels between 2004 and 2008. Employment rates were computed using Labor Force
Survey (LFS) in various years (Table 3.2). The increase in employment rates between 2004 and
2008 may not have accrued entirely because of the project intervention. However, the
improvements do not seem to be a natural trend, either. From 2000 to 2004, the employment rates
only marginally increased or even slightly decreased. It is only after 2004 that employment rates
increased at all education levels. Given the significant improvement in almost all project
indicators (access, quality, relevance, service delivery, etc), the improvements of the employment
rates are, to some extent, attributable to the project.

Table 3.2: Employment Rates by Level of Education 200, 2004 and 2008
         Education Level              2000       2004        2008
 Primary (1-5)                       66.7%        64.8%      67.8%
 Lower Secondary (6-9)               56.6%        56.9%      58.7%
 O/L and AL (10-13)                  51.3%        49.9%      52.4%
Source: Labor Force Survey, various years

Cost-Benefit Analysis
4. A cost-benefit analysis was conducted during the project appraisal, and internal rates of
returns (IRR) and net present values (NPV) were calculated under different scenarios. IRR
estimates from the analysis ranged from a low of 14% to a high of 34%. Similarly, NPV estimates
ranged from approximately US$ 315 million to US$ 791 million, depending on duration of job
search.13




13
     The NPV figures take into account the government funding of USD 3.3 billion over the project period.


                                                      41
5. Benefit streams used at the appraisal stage were (a) increased wage incomes resulting from
larger numbers of children completing basic and secondary schooling; (b) enhanced labor
earnings flowing from the higher quality of basic and secondary education; and (c) reductions in
job search duration and employment among school completers due to the rise in education quality.
The same benefit streams were applied to the new cost benefit analysis, except for job search
duration. The question was changed in the recent LFS, and such information is no longer
available. The benefit streams were computed again using newly available Labor Force Survey
data in various years.

6. For the benefit stream (a), the project produced approximately additional, compared to the
base year, 11,000 basic education, 12,000 O/L and 63,000 A/L completers per annum during the
project period. It is assumed that these additional completers would not have completed their
respective education levels, had there been no project. The benefit of the additional basic
education completers is estimated to be the differential of the wage incomes of those who
completed basic education and those who did not. The benefits of the O/L and AL completes are
calculated in the same way.

7. The quality premium in the benefit stream (b) above increased due to more learning and
learning more relevant to the labor market. This benefit applied not only additional completers,
but in fact to all students who completed basic education, O/L and A/L education during the
project period. There is approximately a total of 1.5 million basic education, 1.5 million O/L and
1.1 million A/L completes during the project period. Differences in wage incomes in the same
education level between LFS 2004 and 2008 was used as an indirect measure of the quality
premium.

8. The benefit stream (c), the detail information of job search duration, is no longer available in
the LFS 2008. Hence, the same proportion in the PAD is used for the sensitivity analysis.

9. The original cost streams constituted: (a) total public expenditure on basic and secondary
education 2006 – 2010; (b) estimated private education expenditure during the same period; and
(c) the opportunity cost of earnings forgone resulting from the higher enrolment rates and grade
cycle completion rates of the school aged population (6-18 years). The new cost benefit analysis
used the updated data of the above cost streams, using LFS and Household Income and
Expenditure Survey (HIES) in various years.

10. Based on the above benefit and cost streams, the cost-benefit analysis was conducted again to
estimate the IRR and the NPV with similar assumptions and newly available data. Table 3.3
summarizes assumptions used at the appraisal stage and at the ICR stage.

Table 3.3: Assumptions for the IRR analysis
                  Items                               Appraisal Stage                 ICR Stage
Net Survival Rates (Grades 1 – 9)                       78% → 88%                        91%
Pass rates at GCE OL (net survival rates)               29% → 35%                        49%
Pass rates at GCE AL (net survival rates)               29% → 35%                        60%
Learning outcomes (math)                                61% → 70%
Learning outcomes (first language)                       62% →70%              Increased wages during
                                                                                  the project period
Learning outcomes (English)                             42% → 50%




                                                42
Economic growth                                              5-6%                         5-6%
An active work cycle                                        40 years                     40 years
US dollar exchange rates                                   $1=Rs.100                $1=Rs. 104 - 113
Discount rates                                                15%                          15%

11. The project was worth investing. The cost benefit analysis shows 16 percent of the IRR and
US$ 785 million of the NPV in base case scenario (accounting for the GOSL investments along
with IDA’s). The figures would vary depending on job search duration. If the job search duration
decreased by 5 months (the best case scenario), the IRR and the NPV would increase to
approximately 25 percent and US$ 1,176 million, respectively. The NPV is in the high bound or
goes beyond the original estimates even under the best scenario in PAD. This is probably partly
due to the significant achievement in the survival rates of basic education that resulted in a larger
number of the students completed O/L and A/L education. While the rates of return to basic
education remain constant at 8-10% before and after the project, those to O/L and A/L education
significantly increased from 9% to 17% during the same period. Hence, the significant increase
in the wage incomes of O/L and A/L completers positively influenced the NPV.

Fiscal Sustainability
12. Fiscal sustainability of the project depends largely on the government’s willingness to
continuously support the ESDFP. The government has already shown a strong commitment to the
program and now is finalizing the preparation of the second phase of the program. The
government budget for the second phase of the program is being approved to keep up the current
momentum.

13. One concern that the next phase of the program should pay attention to is the high share of
recurrent expenditures. While the share of capital expenditures is low at 8 percent, that of
recurrent expenditures is high at 92 percent in 2009. The pattern of a large share of the public
education expenditures devoted to recurrent expenditures was also seen in 2007 and 2008. This is
mainly due to the low student teacher ratio resulting in a heavy expenditure on teacher force. The
overall student-teacher ratio for the country was 21:1 in 2002. It was further exacerbated to 18:1
in 2009. Hence, the second ESDFP would need to pay special attention to the student-teacher
ratio to avoid the high recurrent expenditures.




                                                 43
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)Task Team members
               Names                            Title               Unit         Responsibility/
Lending                                                                            Specialty
Harsha Aturupane               Senior Economist                    SASHD Team Leader
Helen Craig                    Senior Education Specialist         SASHD Co-Team Leader
Asoka Perera                   Consultant                                Construction Management
Sara Gonzales Flavell          Senior Counsel                      LEGMS   Legal
Miriam Witana                  Operations Officer                  SACSL   Operations
Wendy Fernandez                Team Assistant                      SACSL   Administration
Jiwaka Wickremasinghe          Finance Specialist                  SARFM   Financial Management
Eashwary Ramachandran          Operations Analyst                  SASES   Operations
Sumith Pilapitiya              Senior Environmental Specialist     SASES   Environment
Annemarie Mtonyi Mecca         Consultant                          SASHD   Counsel
Audrey Aarons                  Consultant                          SASHD   Education
Corinne Perera                 Team Assistant                      SASHD   Administration
Elfreda Vincent                Program Assistant                   SASHD   Administration
Hiran Herat                    Consultant                          SASHD   Finance
Mohamed Allak                  Consultant                          SASHD   Education
Paul Glewwe                    Consultant                          SASHD   Research and Evaluation
Qaiser Khan                    Lead Social Protection Specialist   SASHD   Social protection
Tahseen Sayed                  Senior Education Specialist         SASHD   Education
Thomas Kellaghan               Consultant                          SASHD   Education
Tikiri Seneviratne             Operations Officer                  SASHD   Operations
Upul Sonnadara                 Consultant                          SASHD   Education Statistician
Hong Tan                       Lead Economist                       WBI    Economics
Supervision/ICR
Harsha Aturupane               Lead Education Specialist           SASHD   Team Leader
Helen J. Craig                 Lead Human Development Special      AFTED   Co-Team Leader
Eliezer Orbach                 Consultant                          ECSPE   Organization
Hiran Herat                    Consultant                          OPCFC   Implementation
Shenuka Perera                Team Assistant                       SACSL   Administration
Bernadeen Enoka               Financial Management Specialist      SARFM   Financial Management
Wijegunawardene
Enoka Wijegunewardena         Financial Management Specialist      SARFM   Financial Management
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe     Sr Financial Management Specialist   SARFM   Financial Management
Dhimant Jayendraray Baxi      Sr Procurement Spec.                 SARPS   Procurement
Sunethra Chandrika Samarakoon Procurement Specialist               SARPS   Procurement
Eashwary Ramachandran          Operations Analyst                  SASDI   Environment
Nadeera Rajapakse              Consultant                          SASDI   Environment
Sumith Pilapitiya              Lead Environmental Specialist       SASDI   Environment
Samantha Prasada Wijesundera   Water & Sanitation Specialist       SASDU   Procurement



                                                44
Angela W. Little            Consultant                         SASED Education Planning
Damaris Wikramanayake       Consultant                         SASED Education
Deepa Sankar                Senior Economist                   SASED   Economics/Education
Hiroshi Saeki               Operations Analyst                 SASED   Economics/Education
Laura M. Kiang              Consultant                         SASED   Operations
Mari Shojo                  Consultant                         SASED   Education
Romaine Jayewardena         Consultant                         SASED   Education
R.S. Medagama               Consultant                         SASED   Education
Uditha Palihakkara          Consultant                         SASED   Institutional Development
Upul J. Sonnadara           Consultant                         SASED   M&E
Visaka Dissanayake          Consultant                         SASED   Science
Alejandro Welch             Program Assistant                  SASHD   Administration
Anita Lakshmi Fernando      Team Assistant                     SASHD   Administration
Audrey Aarons               Consultant                         SASHD   Education
Elfreda Vincent             Program Assistant                  SASHD   Administration
Thomas Kellaghan            Consultant                         SASHD   Education
Tikiri Kumari Seneviratne   Operations Officer                 SASHD   Operations
Venita Kaul                 Consultant                         SASHD   Education
Krishna Pidatala            Senior Operations Officer          TWICT   Information Technology

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks     USD (including travel and
  Lending                                                           consultant costs)
     FY04                                                12                     22,770
     FY05                                                44                    182,091
     FY06                                                36                    137,978
     FY07                                                 0                          0
     FY08                                                 0                      1,095
     TOTAL:                                              92                   343,933
  Supervision/ICR
      FY04                                                0                          0
      FY05                                                0                          0
      FY06                                               13                     56,907
      FY07                                               31                    108,042
      FY08                                               22                    150,655
      FY09                                               29                    139,432
      FY10                                               30                    153,451
      FY11                                               15                     48,280
      FY12                                                7                     32,846
      TOTAL:                                            146                   689,613




                                             45
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                      46
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. The ESDFP is the medium-term sector-wide programme of the Government of Sri Lanka
(GoSL) for the general education sector which has been implemented through the national-level
education agencies [i.e. Ministry of Education (MoE), National Institute of Education (NIE),
Department of Examinations (DoE), Department of Education Publications (DEP)], the
provincial-level education agencies [i.e. Provincial Ministries of Education (PME), Provincial
Departments of Education (PDE), Zonal Education Offices (ZEO)] and schools as well as the
other national-level agencies such as the National Education Commission (NEC), Finance
Commission (FC) and the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP).

2. Development partners and the government have assessed the overall performance of the
ESDFP as satisfactory in terms of the progress of implementation and the achievements of
anticipated development objectives. The key outcomes supported by the programme have all been
either achieved or exceeded during the programme period. The development partners assisted the
ESDFP through Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) has also adhered to the GoSL’s education policy
framework and have supported disbursement of funds efficiently with minimal transaction costs.
The World Bank as the principal development partner in education in Sri Lanka provided
financial assistance through the Education Sector Development Grant (ESDG) of US$ 60.00
million and an Additional Financing Credit (AF) of US$ 10 million for the period 2006-2011
through the SWAp. According to the financial records maintained by the World Bank, the MoE
and the Department of Treasury Operation (DTO), ESDFP has successfully utilised the entire
amount of foreign assistance received through the World Bank during the programme period.
Therefore, from the point of economic efficiency, this could be noted as an outstanding
performance of the programme which was lacking in the traditional, ring-fenced project-based
modalities.

3. Further, ESDFP has been a successful programme being an outcome-oriented programme
with results targets defined for the national and provincial levels for a medium-term period. The
Key outcomes of the ESDFP are briefly stated below.

4. In terms of the results achieved, it is evident that the measures to ensure equitable access to
basic education continue to demonstrate strong progress. The survival rate in the compulsory
basic education cycle (grades 1-9) has increased from the baseline of about 78 per cent in year
2005 to 91 per cent by the end of year 2010 exceeding the pre-programmed target of 88 per cent
for year 2010.

5. The quality of education, as measured through cognitive achievement scores, is also
improving. An increasing pattern of cognitive achievement scores is reported for First Language
(Sinhala and Tamil), English and Mathematics in the grade 4 national assessment of learning
outcomes, and for First Language (Sinhala and Tamil), Mathematics, and Science and
Technology at grade 8, between the period 2005 and 2009. The improvements in learning
outcomes have also exceeded the targets.

6. The upgrading of the school curriculum has been completed according to the plan. The
revised curricula for grades 1-9 and 10-13 have been introduced during the period 2006-2010
achieving 100 per cent of the target on schedule. As a main advantage of implementation of the
ESDFP, gaps of physical infrastructure at provincial schools were completed.

7. Examination guidelines have been distributed to schools for First Language (Sinhala and
Tamil), English, Mathematics, Science, History and the four major Religions for the GCE OL,


                                               47
and for 59 subjects in the GCE AL. All targets have been met. Key reforms supported by the
ESDFP, such as the promotion of ICT-based education, the promotion of bilingual education
programme and the promotion of school library development and the improvement of reading
habits, are proceeding satisfactorily. The content and physical quality and on-time delivery of
textbooks to schools has improved to a greater extent. In 2007 only 89 per cent of textbooks
reached schools on time while during recent years they reach nearly all schools on-time.

8. The Programme for School Improvement (PSI) has also made good progress. The PSI is a
reform programme which supports balanced-control model of school-based management (SBM)
by enabling the participation of local school communities, such as parents, alumni and well-
wishers in school development. It has become popular among provincial education authorities
(PEAs) and schools. At present, PSI is being implemented in schools in all educational zones.
Empirical evidence show that PSI has impacted on improving learning achievements of primary
students in Sri Lanka and efficacy of the school management practices.

9. It has to be noted that there are certain reasons behind these successes and it is worth
mentioning some of them in this paper. The policy framework of the ESDFP was followed by the
national and the provincial educational agencies as well as by the development partners. This
agreement has made a greater impact in identifying priorities of the medium-term and annual
implementation plans. A strong planning culture with collaborative planning processes between
all national and provincial educational agencies has been established from 2006. Planning process
was a blend of bottom-up, to-down and horizontal approaches to planning. Also, from 2006, the
plan-based budgeting practices were chiefly applied to address sector priorities in the general
education sector. It was absent in the past since planning and budgeting activities were carried out
as two separate operations. Further, instead of the traditional input-oriented approach, the ESDFP
followed outcome-oriented approaches to planning and budgeting. The planning and budgeting
processes brought a learning experience to national and provincial planners on formulation of
education plans based on the national policy framework and the pre-defined, intended educational
outcomes and related performance indicators. Therefore, the involvement in those processes
helped development of the knowledge, understanding and the capacity of the officials.

10. Commitment of the officers at national and provincial levels was remarkable in the
implementation of the components of the ESDFP. The participatory manner the ESDFP was
planned and the organisation structure at the provinces and zones with Chief Theme Coordinator
and Coordinators of each Theme of the ESDFP caused to increase the ownership of the
responsible government officials. This in turn resulted to increase the performance. At the
national-level also, the academic coordination and operational and technical directions provided
by the Policy, Planning and Performance Review Division and the commitment of the officers of
the Education Quality Development Division of the MoE towards strengthening implementation
of the ESDFP were outstanding factors caused for the success of the ESDFP. The NIE, DoE and
the DEP also were exceptionally committed to implement the components of the ESDFP. In the
implementation of ESDFP, no any additional payments were made to the GoSL officials at
national and provincial level for coordination and provision of leadership for implementation of
the components funded by the World Bank. Also, no additional project staff and additional
supportive staff were recruited for managing the World Bank-funded components. Activities
funded by the World Bank and many other development partners except those who assisted the
GoSL through ring-fenced project mode, were carried out by the existing government officials
and that could be considered as a good lesson for other service sectors which implement special
development programmes.




                                                48
11. Nevertheless, as common to all service sectors, several constraints affected the
implementation of this programme. For example, lengthy procedures of procurement and civil
works, mismatch between the existing accounting systems and expected accounting systems by
the SWAps, inadequate understanding of audit personnel and some other key counterparts on
SWAp, frequent changes of provincial staff, role of some consultants who do not necessarily bear
direct responsibilities, and negative attitudes of very few officials in the system etc. However,
much of these constraints were addressed and operational caveats were remedied as the system
got familiarised with the sector-wide programmatic approach. At the implementation stage,
number of technical sessions, progress review sessions, high-level monitoring meetings and
follow-up sessions were conducted frequently, monthly, quarterly and annually in support of the
implementation. The annual plan was not considered a rigid document but a dynamic document
and as and when the progress was reviewed on the basis of the plans, necessary changes were
incorporated taking into consideration the reasons and justifications and in agreement with all
respective parties.




                                               49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aturupane, Harsha. 2009. The Pearl of Great Price: Achieving Equitable Access to
      Primary and Secondary Education and Enhancing Learning in Sri Lanka,
      CREATE, U.K.

Central Bank of Sri Lanka. Annual Reports, various years

Government of Sri Lanka. 2002. Regaining Sri Lanka: Vision and Strategy for
      Accelerated Development

__________. 2005. Mahinda Chintana - towards a new Sri Lanka

__________. 2010. The Emerging Wonder of Asia Mahinda Chintana Vision for the
      Future 2010

__________. Department of Census and Statistics, Household Income and Expenditure
      Surveys, various years, Sri Lanka

__________. Department of Census and Statistics, Labor Force Surveys, various years,
      Sri Lanka

Ministry of Education. School Census, various years, Sri Lanka

__________. 2007a. School Health Promotion Program., Impact Study Results, Colombo,
      Sri Lanka

__________. 2007b. Study on the Impact of the Food for Education Programme of the
      World Food Programme, School Health and Nutrition Unit, MOE, Sri
      LankaMinistry of Finance. 2010. Department of National Planning, Impact of
      External Assistance Programmes on Education, Sri Lanka

Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. 2010. Report on the Preparation of
       HRD Plans for the Provincial Education Authorities, Sri Lanka

World Bank. 2003 and 2006. Country Assistance Strategy

__________. 2004 – 2011. Aide Memoire

__________. 2005. Project Appraisal Document for Education Sector Development
      Project (Report No: 33481 – LK)

__________. 2005. Treasures of the Education System in Sri Lanka: Restoring
      Performance, Expanding Opportunities and Enhancing Prospects, Washington
      D.C., USA

__________. 2006 – 2011. Implementation Status and Results Report




                                          51
__________. 2006. Implementation Completion Report for Second General Education
      Project

__________. 2006. Implementation Completion Report for Teacher Education and
      Teacher Deployment Project

__________. 2008. Project Paper on Additional Financing for Education Sector
      Development Project (Report No: 43198 – LK)

__________. 2011. An Impact Evaluation of Sri Lanka’s policies to Improve the
      Performance of Schools and Primary School Students through its School
      Improvement and School Report Card Programs, Washington D.C., USA

__________. 2005. Quality Enhancement Report (a World Bank internal document)

__________. 2011. Transforming School Education in Sri Lanka, From Cut Stones to
      Polished Jewels, Washington D.C., USA




                                         52
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33485
                                                         80°E                                                                                 81°E

I N DIA                                                                                                                                                                                                    SRI LANKA
10°N                                                                                                                                                                               10°N                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS
                               it
                      r    a                                                      Point Pedro                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                   St

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS
                k




                                                  Jaffna                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
              Pal




                            Delft                                                               Elephant Pass                                                                                                     RAILROADS
                          Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                Palk Bay                                        Killinochchi                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                  Iranamadu
                                                                                                  Tank                       Mullaittivu

                          Ferr y
                   Ad                   Talaimannar                              Manakulam
                      am
                        's B
                             ridge
9°N
                                     Mannar
                                      Island        Mannar                      NORTHERN
                                                                                                                                                       Pulmoddai



                                                         Aruvi A                       Vavuniya
                                                                ru

                                                                                                                                                                                                       SRI LANKA
                                                                                                                                                                              Trincomalee

  Gulf of                       Karaitivu                              NORTH CENTRAL
                                  Island                                                             Rambewa                                                                        Mutur
 Mannar                                                             Anuradhapura
                                                                                                                  Yan Oya




                                                                                                    Galkulama
                               Kalpitiya
                                                                   Ka                                                                   Kaud
                                                                      la   Oya                                                                         ulla Oya
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bay of Bengal
                                     Puttalan                                                          Habarane
8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8°N

                                                 NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                      Madura Oya




                                                 WESTERN                              Maho
                                                              Oya                                                                                                                                           Batticaloa
                                                        uru
                                                      ed                                                                                                                                                          Kattankudi
                                                                                                                                      Mahaweli Ganga
                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                                                     EASTERN
                                     Chilaw                                                                                                                                Madura Oya
                                                                     Kurunegala                                                                                             Reservoir

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kalmunai
                                                                                                      CENTRAL
                                                        ha O y a
                                                      Ma                                                                                                                                          Ampara

                                    Negombo                                                                 Kandy                                                                                          Gal Oya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                y
                                                                                        Kegalla
                                                                                                           Victoria Falls
                                                                                                             Reservoir                                      U VA
                                                                                                                   Pidurutalagala                                                    Senanayake
                                                WESTERN                                                            (2,524 m)                                                          Samudra
                                                                       g                                                          Badulla
7°N
                                                         Kelan     Gan                                                                                                                                                                                 7°N
                               COLOMBO
                    Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte                                                                                                                                                                          Pottuvil
                                                                                                                                                                                          Monaragala
                                      Moratuwa
                                                                                               Ratnapura
                                                                           lu                                                                                Wellawaya
                                                                     Ka
                                                                                                                                                              Kirin




                                                                                     SABARAGAMUWA
                                                                                                                                                                 in d




                                              Kalutara
                                                                                                                                                                  i Oya




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kumana
                                                                                                                                                                     ya




  Laccadive
                                                                                                                             Wala




                                                                                                                                                                                          Kataragama
                                                                                                                               l aw




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INDIAN
                                                                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                eG




          Sea
                                                                                                                                      an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OCEAN
                                                                                                                                         g
                                                                                                                                         g  a




                                                                                                  SOUTHERN
                                                                                                                                                              Hambantota
                                                                                 Galle
6°N                                                                                                                         Tangalla                                                               0         20            40          60 Kilometers   6°N
                                                                                                     Matara
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                         Dondra Head
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                      0        10        20          30     40 Miles
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                         80°E                                                                                 81°E                                                                              82°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SEPTEMBER 2004
