                                                                                                  93578
Sri Lanka: Helping Children Get and Finish a Better Education
                                                                                                  May 10, 2012




 The Sri Lanka Education Sector Experience


Overview
A World Bank project in Sri Lanka helped a greater number of boys and girls complete their
basic education by the end of the last decade, with students scoring better in mathematics and
English across all nine provinces.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
Sri Lanka’s general education sector faced
challenges in expanding equitable access to
primary and secondary schooling and
establishing a high quality education system.
The government needed to substantially boost
participation in basic education to achieve the
target of universal completion, as well improve
the quality of education. Cognitive achievement
tests showed substantial shortfalls in language
and numeracy skills. Schools had little voice in
the delivery of education services, with nearly all
management decisions being taken at higher            MORE
levels of the education administration. The
                                                        Community Development in Sri Lanka
allocation of resources for education was
inadequately prioritized towards higher-order           Sri Lanka Roads to Development
processes, assets and spaces, and towards
maintenance and replacement.

                                                                    More Results
Approach
The Bank’s Education Sector Development Program for Sri
Lanka promoted equitable access to basic and secondary
education through the creation of school attendance
committees, and the expansion of basic facilities such as
classrooms, water and sanitation, school health and nutrition
                                                                    93%
                                                                    of girls now complete basic
programs for poor children, and special and non-formal              eduction
education. The Program improved the quality of education
through curriculum modernization, teacher development, and
the on-time delivery of textbooks. This initiative, by setting
explicit budget targets, also helped increase resources for
the training of teachers and principals, and for new or better      2,825
libraries, science laboratories, multi-purpose rooms,               school faciliites were
information-technology centers, and activity rooms. The role        constructed
of schools in the delivery of education services was
strengthened through a school-based management pilot
program called the Program for School Improvement. This                   MORE INFORMATION
element of the program helped train education managers
and administrators, and in-service advisors. A special grant                Project Documents
provided support for an over-arching education sector                       ESDP Project Website
development plan implemented jointly by the central Ministry
                                                                            Sri Lanka Country Site
of Education and the provincial education ministries. Funds
were released only as the various education agencies                        End Poverty in South Asia Blog
reached certain goals and milestones.                                       Connect with us on Facebook

                                                                            Talk to us on Twitter
Results
The proportion of students completing basic education rose
from 73 percent for boys and 83 percent for girls in 2005 to
89 percent for boys and 93 percent for girls in 2010. The
proportion of students scoring over 50 percent in
mathematics at grade 4 increased from 62 percent for boys and 71 percent for girls in 2003 to
77 percent for boys and 87 percent for girls in 2009, and in English from 29 percent for boys
and 38 percent for girls in 2003 to 52 percent for boys and 65 percent for girls in 2009. The
increase in participation and improvement in learning outcomes was observed in all nine
provinces of the country.
During the project timeframe of 2006-2011, the following results were recorded:
      2,825 school facilities were constructed.
      1,220 classroom blocks were built.
      844 toilets were constructed.
      119 information and communications technology laboratories, 318 science laboratories, 166 libraries, 69
      multi-purpose unit activity rooms were constructed.
      4,029 schools were certified as health promoting schools by provinces.
      110,501 teachers were trained.
      113,766 in-service advisors were trained.
      136 education officials were trained.
      78 Teacher Centers conducted multi-ethnic teacher training programs.
      629 schools conducted co-curricular activities among children of different ethnic communities.
      The Program for School Improvement pilot program was tested in eight zones and evaluated before being
      extended to cover 100 zones across the country.
      The survival rate to grade 9 increased from 78 percent in 2005 to 91 percent in 2010.
      Cognitive achievement scores in first language (Sinhala and Tamil) grade 4 increased from 60 percent in
      2003 to 82 percent in 2009.
      Cognitive achievement scores in mathematics in grade 4 rose from 67 percent in 2003 to 82 percent in
      2009.
      Cognitive achievement scores in English in grade 4 rose from 32 percent in 2003 to 58 percent in 2009.




Voices


     Children from very poor families study in our school. We have
   children who have lost their families due to the war. After the
   introduction of the computers, children’s attendance has
   significantly improved, and they are very happy.  
                                                    ——Victoria Presley, Teacher



Bank Contribution
The Education Sector Development Program included a US$60-million grant from the
International Development Association (IDA) covering February 2006-June 2011.
Approximately 75 percent of these funds were allocated for the provincial education ministries,
and 25 percent for the central Ministry of Education. The project was expanded through an
additional US$10 million in 2008, reflecting the significant achievements being made. The main
activities aimed to: (a) promote equitable access to basic education (grades 1-9) and
secondary education (grades 10-13); (b) improve the quality of education; (c) enhance the
economic efficiency and equity of resource allocation and distribution within the education
system; and (d) strengthen education governance and service delivery.

Partners
The World Bank was the sole financier of this program. Other development partners, such as
the Asian Development Bank, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization, and the United Nations Children’s Fund, and the governments of Japan,
Germany and Australia, provided funds support to specific areas of education under separate
projects.

Toward the Future
The government has prepared an Education Sector Development Framework and Program for
2012-2016, using many of the recommendations contained in a World Bank review of the
sector. The World Bank is also supporting a new education project, approved by the Board in
November 2011, which will also link financial support to the achievement of results.
