                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                       Report No: ICR00003490


               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA 4101-MAG, 4399-MAG)



                                             ON A

                                           CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR107.6 MILLION
                             (US$165 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                           FOR THE

                         INTEGRATED GROWTH POLES PROJECT

                                        JUNE 15, 2015




Trade & Competitiveness Global Practice
Eastern and Southern Africa Department
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                                                i
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2015)


                     Currency Unit =      SDR
                       SDR0,7121 =        US$1
                       US$1.4044 =        SDR 1

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1  –  December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADEMA    Aéroports de Madagascar
AFD      Agence Française de Développement
AfDB     African Development Bank
AGOA     African Growth and Opportunity Act
APMF     Agence Portuaire Maritime et Fluviale
BDS      Business Development Services
BOO      Build, Own, Operate
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCI      Chamber of Commerce and Industry
CGA      Centre de Gestion Agréé
CMU      Country Management Unit
CNaPS    Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance Sociale
CRDA     Commission pour la Réforme du Droit des Affaires
CTHT     Centre de Technique Horticole de Tamatave
DBI      Doing Business Indicators
EDBM     Economic Development Board of Madagascar
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EOI      Expression of Interest
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU       European Union
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoM      Government of Madagascar
GP       Global Practice
IC       Investment Climate
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IG2P     Madagascar Integrated Growth Poles Project
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INSTAT   Institut National de la Statistique de Madagascar
IPF      Investment Project Financing
IRR      Internal Rate of Return
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISO      International Organization for Standardization
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation

                                     ii
MFI           Micro Finance Institutions
MNP           National Parks of Madagascar
MSME          Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprise
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
OCAI          Opération Communale d’Appui Intégré
OFID          OPEC Fund for International Development
ONTM          Madagascar National Tourism Office
OP/BP         Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
ORT           Regional Tourism Office
OSS           One Stop Shop
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCGS          Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme
PCN           Project Concept Note
PDO           Project Development Objective
QER           Quality Enhancement Review
PIC2          Second Integrated Growth Poles and Corridors Project
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPD           Public Private Dialogue
PMP           Pest Management Plan
PPP           Public Private Partnership
PPP           Purchasing Power Parity
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QMM           QIT Madagascar Minerals
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
RN            National Road
SADC          Southern African Development Community
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SME           Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise
TA            Technical Assistance
VC            Value Chain
TMP           Tourism Master Plan
TVET          Technical and Vocation Education and Training
WBG           World Bank Group




               Regional Vice President:          Makhtar Diop
                      Country Director:          Mark R. Lundell
        Senior Global Practice Director:         Anabel Gonzalez
                      Practice Manager:          David Bridgman
                  Project Team Leader:           Michael Olavi Engman
                     ICR Team Leader:            Nikola Kojucharov

                                           iii
                                            MADAGASCAR
                                  INTEGRATED GROWTH POLES PROJECT



                                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................................8
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................................15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..........................................................................27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................................29
6. Lessons Learned.........................................................................................................................32
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............................35
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...........................................................................................36
Annex 2. Outputs and Outcomes by Component...........................................................................39
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................................58
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..............................71
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................74
Annex 6. Results Framework and Outcome Indicators .................................................................77
Annex 7. Summary of Rio Tinto/QMM’s Development Impacts in Fort Dauphin .......................82
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................................86
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................................88
MAP




                                                                     iv
A. Basic Information
Country:                  Madagascar                Project Name:             Integrated Growth Poles
Project ID:               P083351                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-41010,IDA-43990
ICR Date:                 06/15/2015                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:       SIL                       Borrower:                 FINANCE ECONOMY
                                                                              & BUDGET
Original Total
                          XDR 85.90M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 107.31M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 107.56M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies: National Project Secretariat
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
      Process               Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:           02/20/2004     Effectiveness:             09/28/2005           09/28/2005
                                                                                         12/13/2007
                                                                                         09/29/2010
Appraisal:                05/10/2005     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                         12/09/2011
                                                                                         12/04/2012
Approval:                 07/12/2005     Mid-term Review:           07/12/2008           03/07/2008
                                         Closing:                   12/31/2010           12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                          Ratings
                                                                              Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Moderately Satisfactory   Government:
                                                                              Unsatisfactory
                                                    Implementing
Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory                                        Highly Satisfactory
                                                    Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank              Satisfactory              Overall Borrower          Moderately Satisfactory

                                                    v
Performance:                                          Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                 Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                             Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                 (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                          Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                             None
(Yes/No):                                             (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General energy sector                                                     10                  10
General industry and trade sector                                         20                  20
General public administration sector                                      25                  25
General transportation sector                                             20                  20
Other industry                                                            25                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                     40                  40
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                                 40                  40
Other urban development                                                    20                  20

E. Bank Staff
             Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:                     Makhtar Diop                         Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:                   Mark R. Lundell                      James P. Bond
Senior Global Practice Director:    Anabel Gonzalez
Practice Manager/Manager:           David Bridgman                       Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:                Michael Olavi Engman                 Ivan Rossignol
ICR Team Leader:                    Nikola Kojucharov
ICR Primary Author:                 Nikola Kojucharov




                                                   vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall purpose of the proposed project is to help provide the adequate business environment
to stimulate and lead economic growth in three selected regional poles.

The specific objectives are to assist the GOM to: (i) construct and rehabilitate critical
infrastructure essential for sustained economic activity in the tourism, manufacturing,
agribusiness and mining sectors; (ii) put in place appropriate incentive measures to achieve rapid
growth; (iii) develop the instruments to ensure equitable, sustainable growth; and (iv) strengthen
the capacity of local authorities to formulate, prepare, implement, and manage medium- and
long-term integrated regional development projects in the future.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objective is to increase business and formal job creation in particular in
the mining, tourism and agribusiness sectors in the Nosy Be and Taolagnaro regions.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                 Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                   approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                  documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of businesses registered in Nosy Be (cumulative)
Value
                                                                                 1,933 at end-2012;
quantitative or   400                         650                 1,800
                                                                                 2,957 at end-2014
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                  12/31/2012           12/31/2014    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved: original target exceeded by 197% and upwardly revised target by 64%.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of businesses registered in Fort Dauphin (cumulative)
Value
                                                                                 1,603 at end-2012;
quantitative or   82                          450                 1,700
                                                                                 2,514 at end-2014
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                  12/31/2012           12/31/2014    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved: original target exceeded by 256% and upwardly revised target by 49%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of formal jobs created in Nosy Be (cumulative)
Value
                                                                                 5,005 at end-2012;
quantitative or   1,400                       6,500               5,700
                                                                                 6,948 at end-2014
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                  12/31/2012           12/31/2014    12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Original target missed but revised target exceeded by 22%.
achievement)


                                                    vii
Indicator 4 :     Number of formal jobs created in Fort Dauphin (cumulative)
Value
                                                                                      7,560 at end-2012;
quantitative or   1,015                          5,000                8,200
                                                                                      9,385 at end-2014
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                     12/31/2012           12/31/2014      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved: original target exceeded by 51% and upwardly revised target by 14%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Direct project beneficiaries
Value
                                                 N/A (indicator
quantitative or   0                                                   217,300         220,199
                                                 added in 2012)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                                          12/31/2014      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target achieved (exceeded by 1%).
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Female percentage of direct project beneficiaries
Value
                                                 N/A (indicator
quantitative or   0                                                   50.6            50.6
                                                 added in 2012)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                                          12/31/2014      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Targets achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

See Annex 6.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                   Actual Disbursements
 No.                                  DO                            IP
          Archived                                                                      (USD millions)
   1     12/28/2005             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      14.16
   2     04/10/2006             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      15.24
   3     07/12/2006             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      18.29
   4     12/18/2006        Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                19.99
   5     06/20/2007             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      32.50
   6     12/20/2007             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      52.23
   7     06/19/2008             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                82.29
   8     06/30/2008             Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory                82.79
   9     12/30/2008             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     106.84
  10     06/17/2009       Moderately Unsatisfactory      Moderately Unsatisfactory              113.70
  11     10/30/2009       Moderately Unsatisfactory      Moderately Unsatisfactory              113.70
  12     02/04/2010       Moderately Unsatisfactory      Moderately Unsatisfactory              117.06
  13     06/26/2010       Moderately Unsatisfactory      Moderately Unsatisfactory              118.18
  14     03/27/2011        Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               128.16

                                                     viii
  15     12/12/2011      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              134.56
  16     06/21/2012      Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     136.04
  17     01/02/2013          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     137.17
  18     07/09/2013          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     143.01
  19     01/07/2014          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     150.26
  20     06/30/2014          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     159.01
  21     12/30/2014          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     163.90


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           Reallocation of project funds to
                                                           cover shortfall in government
  12/13/2007        N         S       S          52.23
                                                           funding and provide 100 percent
                                                           financing for eligible expenditures
                                                           Extension of closing date for
  09/29/2010        N        MU      MU         124.50     original credit (4101-MAG) to
                                                           December 2011
                                                           Extension of closing date for
  12/09/2011        N        MS      MS         134.56     original credit (4101-MAG) to
                                                           October 2012.
                                                           PDO revised to establish clearer
                                                           linkages to results indicators;
  12/04/2012        Y        MS       S         137.17     components re-adjusted to better
                                                           reflect post-crisis and post-OP/BP
                                                           7.30 implementation realities


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body)
enter ratings below:

                                                                    Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                               Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                          Moderately Satisfactory




                                                   ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at appraisal

1. Country context. After three decades of declining GDP per capita, Madagascar’s economy
turned the corner in the late 1990s on the back of structural reforms, achieving steady real GDP
growth in the range of 3.7 to 10 percent between 1997 and 2004 (among the highest in Africa at
the time), interrupted only by the political crisis in 2002. However, this resurgent growth had a
comparatively low impact on poverty reduction and exacerbated regional disparities: except for
the Antananarivo province, all of the country’s five provinces became poorer over this period,
with the gap widening most in rural areas. The sustainability of growth was also in question, as
preferential trade agreements for Madagascar’s garment exports were likely to be phased out and
private investment was low and stagnating. In addition, firms were struggling with poor cost
competitiveness: the 2005 investment climate assessment indicated that indirect costs on
Malagasy firms exceeded a third of their total operating costs (compared to 20 percent in China),
attributable to the poor physical infrastructure, deficient power supply, high telecommunication
costs and tax and policy inefficiencies. At the same time, key sources of growth had yet to be
tapped: tourism, a high-potential sector given the country’s numerous beaches and unique flora
and fauna, was relatively under-developed, while the mining sector had yet to take advantage of
the large and high-grade ilmenite deposits in the southern Taolagnaro region.

2. Government Strategy. Madagascar’s experience up to that point with traditional cross-
cutting business environment and investment climate reforms had been disappointing: they had
failed to kick-start private sector growth or instill investor confidence in longer-term
investments, as evidenced by the massive private capital flight during the 2002 crisis. The new
government coming into power after the crisis was committed to exploring new approaches that
could both leverage Madagascar’s potential in specific sectors and address the growing regional
disparities. Building on regional planning processes that had begun in the late 1990s, and through
consultations with the private sector and donors, the government identified three regions where
appropriate market conditions could be created to catalyze private sector growth in the tourism,
mining and manufacturing sectors. These regions, selected for this sector potential as well as the
geographic balance they represented, were: (i) Antananarivo-Antsirabe, the central capital city
region and the economy’s main export processing hub; (ii) Taolagnaro (Fort Dauphin), the
extremely poor southeastern region plagued by recurrent famines; and (iii) Nosy Be, the small
island in the north with a declining sugar industry but burgeoning tourist activity.

3. Rationale for World Bank involvement. The Government of Madagascar’s (GoM) desire
to develop high-potential sectors in these regions into “magnets” for sustained private sector
investment and growth necessitated a set of integrated interventions that could simultaneously
address both hard and soft infrastructure constraints. At the time, no private financier had the
sufficient capacity and resources to take on such a multi-dimensional project, while
Madagascar’s other key donors preferred more sector-specific initiatives or were operating under
different intervention timelines. This made the Bank uniquely placed to provide the breadth of
technical and financial assistance required. The context was fertile ground for the Bank to
venture into its first ever “growth poles” operation, harnessing its multi-sector expertise (and that
of IFC) into a single project that could serve both as the key delivery vehicle for the GoM’s
growth agenda and as a new model for engagement on private sector development issues.


                                                 1
4. Higher-level objectives to which the project contributed. The GoM’s 2004 Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) aimed to cut poverty in half in ten years by: (i) improving
governance; (ii) promoting broad-based growth; and (iii) providing security financing. The
Integrated Growth Poles Project (IG2P) supported this strategy and the Bank’s overarching CAS
goals to foster growth through a focus on export processing zones (Antananarivo-Antsirabe), the
tourism and agribusiness sectors (Nosy Be and Taolagnaro), and the mining sector (Taolagnaro).
It was designed to complement ongoing reforms in the telecommunications, power, and transport
sectors, and to address constraints in human capital formation, governance, the business
environment, institutional capacity and enterprise development.

1.2 Original PDO and outcome indicators

5. The project development objective (PDO) was to provide a business environment adequate
to stimulate and lead economic growth in three regional poles in the areas of Antananarivo-
Antsirabe, Nosy Be and Taolagnaro, and in particular to: (i) construct and rehabilitate critical
infrastructure essential for sustained economic activity in the tourism, manufacturing,
agribusiness and mining sectors; (ii) put in place appropriate incentive measures to achieve rapid
growth; (iii) develop the instruments to ensure equitable, sustainable growth; and (iv) strengthen
the capacity of local authorities to formulate, prepare, implement, and manage medium- and
long-term integrated regional development projects in the future.

6. The project results chain was rooted in the theory of fostering private sector
development through a set of integrated investments. By simultaneously intervening along
multiple dimensions of the growth nexus (business environment, key infrastructure, access to
basic services, local governance), the project aimed to remove key constraints to business
formation and strengthen the platform for growth in high-potential sectors within the regional
poles. The private sector could then use this platform to leverage its own investments and reduce
its cost of doing business, helping to spur business and job creation and the expansion of value
added in the targeted sectors. This causal chain is illustrated in Figure 1.

                         Figure 1: Theory of change and results for IG2P




Source: Author’s conceptualization based on PAD.


                                                   2
7. Due to the lack of GDP data for the regional poles, the impact of project interventions
on economic growth had to be monitored and measured indirectly through proxy
indicators. The key PDO outcome indicators chosen to proxy growth in targeted sectors
(tourism, mining, manufacturing, and agribusiness) across the three regional poles were:

       The increase in the number of tourists arriving at Nosy Be and Taolagnaro airports and
        ports (as a proxy for growth in the tourism sector)

       The volume of merchandise and minerals shipped through the Taolagnaro and Tamatave
        ports and Ivato airport1 (proxy for growth in agriculture, mining and manufacturing in
        Taolagnaro and Antsirabe-Antananarivo)

       The number of jobs created in the three poles (a proxy for the shared content of growth)

8. Intermediate results indicators for each project component focused on tracking the
outputs and outcomes along each dimension of the growth nexus targeted by the project.
These included the progress in strengthening the enabling conditions for private sector entry (e.g.
credit extended to MSMEs), improving key infrastructure (e.g. length of roads built or
rehabilitated) and access to basic services (e.g. percent of population with potable water), and
enhancing local governance capacity (e.g. level of municipal revenues generated). The full list of
these indicators is detailed in Annex 6.

1.3 Revised PDO and outcome indicators

9. The results framework was revised in 2007-08 as part of the project’s first level one
restructuring and provision of additional financing, although the PDO remained
unchanged. The rate of annual private investment flows was added as a PDO outcome indicator
to reflect the project’s support for the creation of the Economic Development Board of
Madagascar (EDBM), a new agency dedicated to investment promotion and facilitation at the
national level. Indicators to monitor the operationalization of the EDBM, the implementation of
regional development plans, and the enactment of Investment and Free Zone Laws were also
added. Furthermore, baseline values and targets, which were missing for many indicators at the
time of appraisal, were formally specified.

10. Following an unconstitutional transfer of power in early 2009 that plunged
Madagascar into political crisis, project implementation halted in February 2009 and the Bank
suspended disbursements in the context of OP/BP 7.30 (Dealings with De Facto Governments).2
Partial disbursements were authorized only under exceptions to OP/BP 7.30 in December 2009
to manage safeguards-related activities.3 It was not until May 2011 that Bank management

1
   Ivato airport is the country’s major international airport near the capital city of Antananarivo; Tamatave Port, 
located 215km east of Antananarivo in the Atsinanana region, is the country’s largest seaport. 
2
    OP/BP 7.30 lays out the conditions under which the Bank can suspend disbursements for existing loans due to 
the accession to power by a de facto government by means not provided for in the country's constitution, such as 
a coup d'état, revolution, usurpation, abrogation or suspension of the constitution. 
3
   In Nosy Be, these included: the Tidal gate at Marodokany, the landfill site, management for Nosy Tanikely and 
Lake Amparihibe, and closure of quarries and road maintenance. In Fort Dauphin, they included: implementation 
of RAPs for the QMM’s mining facility and Ehoala Port, water supply and sanitation schemes for PAPs, retraining of 
retrenched workers from the old port, road maintenance, and vocational training at select centers. 
                                                         3
approved the full resumption of disbursements, with the understanding that the project would
need to be restructured to adapt to the evolving political and economic realities.

11. In this context, the project was formally restructured and the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) amended on December 26, 2012, with the PDO revised to make it more
closely attributable to project activities and to provide clearer guidance for results-oriented
implementation. The Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole was also dropped entirely due to a lack of
private sector participation and difficulty in establishing clear implementation arrangements, and
project interventions re-focused on the two other growth poles, where it was judged that
conditions were in place to achieve development objectives within the remaining timeframe. The
revised PDO was to increase business and formal job creation in particular in the mining,
tourism and agribusiness sectors in the Nosy Be and Taolagnaro regions.

12. The results framework was also revised and the outcome indicators updated to reflect
the dropping of the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole and the activities that could no longer be
supported under the new country circumstances. In particular, the PDO indicator for annual
private investment flows was dropped due to its poor regional attribution and a new core
indicator on direct project beneficiaries (including gender balance) was introduced. Target values
for all indicators were re-aligned to a 2011 baseline and extended through 2014 to reflect the
project’s new closing date. These and other changes to the key PDO-level outcome indicators are
summarized in Table A6 of Annex 2, while the complete description of revisions to all outcome
indicators, including intermediate indicators by project component, is provided in Annex 6.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13. While the PAD did not identify specific beneficiaries, the project directly targeted
private firms in the three growth pole regions as well as poor and underserved
communities. Current and prospective micro, small and medium size enterprises (MSMEs)
would benefit from the project’s hard infrastructure investments (roads, ports, water and
electricity supply, sanitation systems) via a reduction in the transaction costs of starting and
operating a business, especially in rural areas where physical access to markets was most
constrained. Poor households would also benefit from the improved access to basic services (e.g.
electricity, water, solid waste management) resulting from this new infrastructure. Furthermore,
the project’s various training programs and access to finance schemes (i.e. soft infrastructure)
would help equip local entrepreneurs with the skills necessary to develop their business ideas and
the financial capital to pursue investments that would otherwise have been prohibitively
expensive. Finally, as the new private activity spurred by the project in these sectors reached a
critical mass, it would generate multiplier effects on other sectors, thus benefiting the overall
economies of the three regional poles and neighboring regions with supply chain linkages.

14. The other key beneficiaries were the local governments, who would leverage the
technical assistance and equipment and software provided by the project to improve their
administrative capacity. The boost in fiscal revenue resulting from increased private sector
activity would also improve their financial capacity to sustain and build on IG2P’s investments.

1.5 Original components

15. The project consisted of five components. One corresponded to transversal activities
supporting the MSME sector more broadly, and three corresponded to the regional growth poles,
                                            4
which included a combination of hard and soft infrastructure investments. The fifth component
encompassed all activities related to project implementation, evaluation and monitoring.

Component A: Strengthening the Business Environment

16. The objective of this component was to support MSMEs across the three poles through
increased access to finance opportunities, capacity building, and targeted improvements to
the business and regulatory environment. It was therefore the umbrella component for “soft”
infrastructure delivery to promote higher private sector investment and job creation.

17. Specific activities (subcomponents) undertaken, several designed and administered in
coordination with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) included:

      improving MSMEs' access to finance through a joint IDA-IFC risk sharing facility to
       provide credit guarantees to commercial banks;
      MSME capacity building to develop value chains;
      tourism capacity building;
      supporting the restructuring of the state-owned water and electricity company JIRAMA;
      supporting regulatory and policy reforms and investment promotion agencies 
        
Component B: Supporting export-led growth in Antananarivo-Antsirabe

18. This component aimed to develop off-site investments for the creation of an ICT
business park in Antananarivo (Antanetibe site) and to provide technical assistance for
industrial and agribusiness zones in Antananarivo and Antsirabe. These investments
intended to reduce the various costs faced by firms in export processing zones (EPZ) and
garment/textile and ICT sectors and to boost their productivity and competitiveness, resulting in
a better investment climate for higher output and increased employment, and directly
contributing to the PDO outcomes of manufacturing sector growth and job creation in the region.

19. The main activities included:

      Technical assistance to relevant ministries and EPZ authorities to develop a new
       regulatory framework, one or more industrial parks in Antananarivo and Antsirabe, and a
       skills development program(s) and on the issue of trade negotiations;
      Supporting the development of an ICT Business park in Antanetibe;
      Supporting the municipalities of Antananarivo and Antsirabe through technical assistance
       (TA), training, and rehabilitation of existing facilities.

Component C: Supporting tourism-led growth in Nosy Be

20. The goal of this component was to help build an infrastructure platform and
regulatory environment conducive to the rapid growth of the tourism industry in Nosy Be,
with a target of accommodating a demand of 2,000 international-level hotel rooms by 2010.

21. Core activities under this component included:

      Design and adoption of Nosy Be tourism and urban development master plans
                                             5
      Upgrading the road network to enable access to the isolated eastern part of the island and
       improve travel conditions between the airport, the main city (Hellville) and tourism sites;
      Upgrading the Hellville and Ankify ports;
      Upgrading the public utilities system by: (i) supporting power generation and
       distribution, (ii) upgrading the water and sewerage system, (iii) upgrading urban solid and
       liquid waste management, and (iv) upgrading telecommunications;
      Upgrading urban infrastructure in Hellville and adding a surgery block to its hospital;
      Providing support to the Nosy Be municipality and local tourism authorities through TA,
       training, rehabilitation of existing facilities and creation of ecotourism facilities.

Component D: Mining and tourism-led growth in Taolagnaro (Fort Dauphin)

22. As in the case of Nosy Be, the activities under this component were designed to deliver
the infrastructure and business environment needed to open up the economically-isolated
Taolagnaro to new opportunities for tourism and agribusiness, as well as to catalyze and
complement Rio Tinto’s parallel investments in ilmenite mining. This integrated platform of
investments would underpin business creation and job growth in these three sectors.

23. The principal subcomponents were:

      Development of tourism and urban development plan master plans;
      Construction (under a PPP with Rio Tinto) of a new public port on the Ehoala peninsula
       to support the ilmenite mining operations and facilitate local market access;
      A partial rehabilitation of the existing port of Taolagnaro to provide continuity for traffic
       during construction of the new port;
      Upgrading the access road network and the main rural roads;
      Upgrading the key public utilities services (power, water, sanitation, urban infrastructure
       and services and solid waste management) and telecommunications;
      Upgrading of selected urban infrastructures including the Tsiranana hospital;
      Supporting the municipality of Taolagnaro and local tourism authorities through TA,
       training, rehabilitation of existing facilities, and construction of basic sanitary facilities.

Component E: Program and project implementation, evaluation and monitoring

24. The funding under this component was designated to establish the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and support, at both the central and regional levels: (i) project
implementation, coordination, procurement and financial management; (ii) the preparation and
implementation of the provisions of the Environmental Management Plan; and (iii) the carrying
out of all environmental and social activities under the project.

1.6 Revised components

25. With the exception of the Antananarivo-Antsirabe component, which was dropped
entirely in 2012, the other four headline components remained unchanged. However,
modifications were made to sub-components: some were dropped and others added as the
management team sought to adjust the project design to reflect evolving political and economic


                                                 6
priorities, simplify a complex undertaking, and incorporate new development tools that were
perceived as effective means to achieve the objectives.

26. As part of the first level one restructuring in 2007, component funds were reallocated
to accommodate shortfalls in counterpart funding and a change in the institutional
framework for implementation. Soon after the project became effective, the GoM’s budget
constraints and other national priorities made it clear that it was not in a position to contribute its
agreed share of project funding (most of which was to cover taxes and duties). In addition, the
GoM requested Bank support to establish the EDBM. As a result, existing project funds were re-
allocated for the EDBM and to provide 100 percent financing (i.e. inclusive of taxes) for as many
components as possible. Project resources that were previously dispersed through allocations for
various Ministries were consolidated and concentrated under the EDBM to provide greater focus
and impact on results. The DCA was amended on December 14, 2007 to reflect these changes.

27. In parallel to this restructuring, an additional financing credit (4399-MAG) was
provided in May 2008. The loss of government counterpart funding combined with the shift to
100 percent Bank financing for various components reduced the net available IDA allocation
after taxes from $130 million to $114 million, meaning some originally-planned activities could
not be financed. Many of the project’s infrastructure works also suffered from cost overruns due
to inflation and local currency appreciation. To plug this financing gap, the government
requested SDR 25 million ($40 million) in additional financing. The additional credit was
approved by the Bank board in April 2008 and the financing agreement signed on May 8, 2008.

28. Finally, as part of second level one restructuring in 2012 when the PDO was revised,
several subcomponents were dropped, some new ones added, and others modified to better
reflect the post-crisis implementation realities. These changes were recorded in the
amendments to the DCA in December 2012. Table A4 in Annex 2 presents and explains the
various changes made to individual subcomponents during the course of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes

29. Institutional arrangements were decentralized in the aftermath of the political crisis.
The National Steering Committee was effectively inoperative during the political crisis years
when a transitional government was in place. As part of the amendment to the DCA in 2012, the
legal requirement for the maintenance of this Committee was removed, and implementation
guidance and supervision transferred to regional development committees in each of the poles.

30. A portion of the original project credit (MAG-4101) was cancelled and unused funds
from the Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme (PCGS) refunded to IDA by IFC. In December
2011, the undisbursed balance of $2.3 million in the two IFC trust funds administering the PCGS
was transferred back to IDA, in accordance with the conditions of the DCA. Then, in March
2012, $5 million (SDR 3.25 million equivalent) was cancelled from the original project credit as
a result of port works that could not be completed and in order to reallocate funds to other Bank
projects in Madagascar with pressing needs.

31. The project closing date was also extended three times, first from December 2010 to
December 2011 to allow for implementation to catch up following the suspension of the project
under OP/BP 7.30, then to October 2012 to disburse remaining funds under the original credit
(MAG-4101), and finally to December in 2014 as part of the second project restructuring.
                                            7
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project preparation, design, and quality at entry

32. The background analysis was sound and robust. Lessons from shortcomings of projects
that had opted for sector-specific investments rather than an integrated approach were stressed in
the project design, extensive private sector consultations were organized and recorded, and the
rationale for the Bank’s intervention was clear. The economic and financial analysis was
thorough and rigorous4, correctly emphasizing the incremental benefits of the project, and was
used to inform the design of the project components: infrastructure elements that did not
contribute to a better economic rate of return were excluded, while those making the cut were
dimensioned to fit their expected benefits. Most notably, the estimate that a co-investment in the
Ehoala Port larger than $35 million would prove uneconomical for the government justified the
capping of the project contribution to the Port at this amount.

33. Private partnerships and parallel financing were leveraged in the project framework.
Given Madagascar’s over-dependence on public funding at the time—private capital inflows
represented only 10 percent of official development aid—IG2P was designed to be leveraged by
private sector investments and to create a context for public-private partnerships (PPPs). These
PPPs, in addition to enlarging the scale of support to the three growth poles, would help
distribute risk among stakeholders, and place some ownership and responsibility for the
sustainability of the project with its main beneficiary—the private sector. At the time of
appraisal, however, the only partner committed on a large scale was Rio Tinto (for the mining
investment in Fort Dauphin). Although discussions were underway with a range of donors—
including the EU, AfDB, AFD, and the Millennium Challenge account—the full amount
financing needed for IG2P, estimated at $304 million, had not yet been identified, leaving the
project at risk of not being able to deliver on its promised investments.5

34. The GoM was actively involved in project preparation and displayed strong
ownership. The Vice Prime Minister in charge of the GoM’s economic programs, in particular,
was IG2Ps key champion and facilitated the appraisal team’s access to government counterparts
(including the President). The project’s National Steering Committee was set up as planned,
chaired by the Minister of Finance and Budget, and the President maintained a keen interest in
project and became an important convener of Cabinet ministries and private sector leaders.

35. Although innovative in design, the project was arguably too complex, placing undue
strains on implementation capacity. Relative to traditional multi-sector investment projects,
IG2P’s approach of a “minimum infrastructure platform” that could service a range of sectors
was innovative and new to World Bank operations in the Africa region at the time, as was the
use of a multi-sectoral project team to lead the effort. Understandably, this integrated approach
necessitated a large number of simultaneous investments, but with five components and around




4
  The variables to which the results were most sensitive were candidly disclosed and discussed. 
5
  The PAD committed to securing full program financing by the time the project became effective, but in reality the 
financing gap still stood at around $21 million by then, and continued to grow in the first few years of the project,  
eventually necessitating the provision of additional financing via a new IDA credit in 2008. 
                                                          8
87 activities spread across three regions, IG2P was arguably too ambitious in scope, especially
because all these activities fell under the remit of a single PIU.6

36. Furthermore, political influences led to the inclusion of components and activities that
were not fully justified on economic grounds. Antananarivo-Antsirabe, already one of the
richer areas of the country, was included as a growth pole in IG2P on the government’s
insistence despite analysis suggesting a tenuous economic return of proposed investments.7 The
appraisal team compensated for this by underfunding the pole in the project design—activities
directly related to the pole (component B) amounted to only 5 percent of the original project
budget. Another low-return component included as a GoM precondition for agreeing to IG2P
was a $5 million transfer to JIRAMA—the state-owned water and electricity provider—to help
pay for its petroleum purchases. This one-off transfer, justified as a first step towards a
“restructuring” and “recovery plan” for JIRAMA, was de facto a subsidy that promised minimal
longer-term return given JIRAMA’s weak financial position at the time.

37. The limited strategic sequencing of activities further complicated project management
at the outset, although it allowed some flexibility during later stages. Some of the ambiguity
in priorities was by design since the National Steering Committee was mandated to provide
guidance on national and local priorities and monitor the extent to which IG2P activities were
achieving intended development objectives. The PIU, in retrospect, also benefitted from the
flexibility to tweak components to better suit implementation capacities. At the outset, however,
pressure to launch all project activities simultaneously it difficult for the PIU to manage the large
number of contracts involved and prioritize its time and human resources.

38. The project’s broad range of infrastructure investments also introduced a constellation
of social and environmental safeguards challenges. Six of the Bank’s eight safeguard policies
at the time were directly triggered by the project’s proposed activities: Environmental
Assessment, Natural Habitats, Pest Management, Cultural Property, Involuntary Resettlement,
and Forests. Because of the project’s financing contribution to Ehoala Port, which represented an
associated investment in support of Rio Tinto’s mining activities in Fort Dauphin, Rio Tinto also
had to consider and comply with a variety of other Bank safeguard policies. To its credit, the
IG2P project team addressed each of these challenges diligently, conducting extensive
consultations with project stakeholders and potential persons affected by the project (PAPs),
adapting the project design accordingly, and providing a comprehensive list of mitigating
measures in the PAD. As this was a Category A environmental risk project, an independent
expert advisory panel (ESAP) was also commissioned to monitor compliance with safeguards
during project preparation and implementation and recommend corrective measures.


6
   There were a total of 24 activities in Component A, 12 in Component B, 24 in Component C, 25 in Component D, 
and 2 in Component E. Concerns about this complexity jeopardizing implementation were raised at both the 
concept and quality enhancement review (QER) stages of project preparation, especially since prior experience 
with adaptable program loan (APL) transport projects in Madagascar had revealed weaknesses in the 
government’s implementation capacity. However, the final project design was not simplified on the grounds that 
the implementation risks could be mitigated by holding the PIU to strict performance metrics and subcontracting 
major infrastructure works to specialized implementing agencies recruited through service contracts (CCOP). 
7
   Although the potential for EPZ clustering and manufacturing growth there was legitimate, the economic analysis 
demonstrated that the NPV of the IG2P’s proposed investments was highly sensitive to the number of jobs 
stimulated in the region, and would turn negative if annual job creation was less than 1,000. 
                                                        9
39. Key risks were assessed thoroughly and proved to be prescient. The overall risk level of
IG2P was rated as high at appraisal, reflecting a candid and realistic assessment of key risks,
including: shortfalls in partner funding, a lack of follow-through by Rio Tinto on its mining
investment, insufficient regulatory reform to support the infrastructure platforms, slow/stalled
implementation due to capacity constraints and/or political interference, and weak capacity of
local accountants to carry out fiduciary duties. While these were mostly mitigated through
prudent institutional and legal arrangements, the few that were beyond the direct control of the
appraisal team—the shortage of counterpart funding and lack of key regulatory reform to support
infrastructure platforms—ultimately materialized over the course of implementation.

2.2 Implementation

40. Over its first 3½ years, the project was marked by accelerating implementation
momentum as well as strong government ownership and private sector participation. By
late 2008, a critical mass of IG2P’s trainings and hard infrastructure works were either underway
or completed, and government and stakeholder engagement was high, with quarterly meetings
hosted by the World Bank and PIU that were attended by almost half the Cabinet (including the
President) and key leaders of private sector organizations. Private partnerships critical to project
implementation were also materializing as planned. Two of Madagascar’s largest banks—BNI-
Madagascar and BFV-Société General—successfully partnered with IG2P to launch the partial
credit guarantee scheme (PCGS) in June 2006, which ran through mid-2008. In August 2005,
Rio Tinto also took the formal decision to invest in Madagascar, signing a 40-year mining
concession with the GoM to develop the ilmenite deposits in Fort Dauphin. The agreement paved
the way for construction of a vast mining facility and a PPP for the construction, operation and
management of Ehoala Port.

41. The breakout of political crisis in early 2009 severely curtailed project activities and
donor support for Madagascar. The suspension of World Bank disbursements under OP/BP
7.30 brought implementation to a standstill from March 17, 2009 until the project’s original
closing date of December 31, 2010. The curtailment in funding also forced the PIU to
significantly reduce its staff count. During this crisis, the country lost financing support from key
public donors and was suspended by the African Union (then the Organization of African Unity)
and the Southern African Development Community (SADC).

42. The political turmoil also plunged the economy into recession, shattering investor
confidence in Madagascar and deterring supporting private investments that were critical
to project outcomes. Real GDP contracted by 4.0 percent in 2009 and recovered at only a
subdued pace in the years thereafter, held back by high political and economic uncertainty that
deterred domestic and foreign investment. This loss of financing and confidence was particularly
detrimental to the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole, where IG2P’s engagement relied heavily on
private partnerships to realize plans for industrial zones and an ICT business park.

43. Although OP/BP 7.30 was lifted in May 2011, the lingering political and economic
fragility prevented the project from running at full speed thereafter. With the second project
restructuring in December 2012, the focus therefore shifted to protecting and sustaining critical
infrastructure and institutional capacity put in place during the pre-crisis phases of the project.
Elections in December 2013 paved the way for the formation of a new government in early 2014,
bringing an end to five years of political uncertainty. The World Bank normalized its relations

                                                 10
with Madagascar on March 12, 2014. The economy remained fragile through the end of the
project, however, with many investors continuing to perceive significant risks to governance.

44. Key enabling policy and regulatory reforms also failed to be completed, further
impeding the full realization of project outcomes. Although an Open Air Skies Policy was
legally adopted early in the project (2006), it was never implemented in practice, leaving Air
Madagascar as the de facto monopoly carrier in the domestic market, with its erratic schedules
and high prices deterring visitors and constraining the growth of tourism. The delayed and
insufficient reform to JIRAMA and its overly-centralized management also continue to impede
the adequate provision of water and electricity to the population, particularly to more remote
regions, while the outdated legal framework for punishing electricity theft prevents meaningful
reductions in JIRAMA’s commercial losses and undermines its financial sustainability.

45. High volatility at the institutional level also hampered the project’s governance
capacity building efforts. In total, the project persisted through 3 different Presidents, 6
Ministers of Finance, 5 Chiefs of Region, and 8 Mayors. In the regional poles, the frequent
reshuffling of officials, each coming into office with a different set of campaign promises,
complicated Bank and PIU efforts to manage public expectations and keep implementation
focused on previously-agreed priorities. It also led to high turnover in municipal staff,
undermining the administrative capacity that the project was helping to build.

46. In addition, several region-specific factors created setbacks to project objectives and
dampened the environment for investment and growth in targeted sectors:

   In Nosy Be, the closure of the island’s two biggest employers—the state-owned sugar
    company SIRAMA in 2008 and the fish and shrimp producer UNIMA in 2011—led to
    around 2,800 formal job losses.8 This event was a setback to IG2P’s job creation objectives,
    although with some silver lining because it facilitated the reorientation of the economy
    towards the growing tourism sector.9 Another major disruption came in September 2013,
    when the murder of 3 people (including two foreigners) by a local mob on a beach near a
    tourist village led the French Embassy to issue a travel warning (orange alert) to its nationals,
    who traditionally make up half of all tourists to Nosy Be. This resulted in mass cancellations
    for the 2014 season and a sharp drop in tourist arrivals. While reservations have begun to
    recover since the warning was lifted in May 2014, the disruption prevented the level of
    tourist arrivals from reaching final project targets (see Annex 6), and also dampened
    municipal revenue intake, which depends in large part on the level of local tourism activity.




8
    At the time of project appraisal, SIRAMA was already suffering from chronic mismanagement and volatile sugar 
prices, and was on the verge of bankruptcy. A tender was launched in 2008 to privatize a few of the company’s 
sites in Madagascar; private operators were found for some locations but not for Nosy Be, and SIRAMA closed its 
Nosy Be plant in 2008 and laid off all its employees.  UNIMA (the fish and shrimp company), on the other hand, 
started having financial problems unexpectedly in 2006‐07 due to adverse trends in the global markets for shrimp, 
and eventually shut down its Nosy Be plant in 2011. Neither company closure was related to IG2P. 
9
   Indeed, many of the workers laid off from SIRAMA and UNIMA found new jobs in tourism and became key 
seekers and recipients of IG2P’s business development services, with many going on to start their own businesses. 
                                                       11
    In Fort Dauphin, agricultural activity during the political crisis was disrupted by the
     intensification of zebu conflicts10 in rural areas of the Anosy region following the relocation
     of regional military troops to Antananarivo (to contain crisis-related rioting). Investment in
     and around Fort Dauphin also suffered as a result of this increased violence. Meanwhile, in
     the mining sector, Rio/Tinto QMM’s ilmenite production (which began in 2009) has been
     hampered by technical setbacks11 and a lower-than-expected price of ilmenite in global
     markets in recent years. This has led to financial losses for the company and reduced its
     mining royalties and tax payments to the Fort Dauphin municipality.

    In Antananarivo-Antsirabe, Madagascar’s loss of eligibility in January 2010 (as a
     consequence of its undemocratic transfer of power) for the U.S. trade preferences offered in
     the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA)—from which the country had benefitted
     since October 200012—undermined the competitiveness of its textile industry and led to mass
     layoffs and firm closures in the region. The broader manufacturing sector also suffered from
     the rapid appreciation of the Ariary (20 percent between 2006 and 2008) and Madagascar’s
     suspension from the SADC (preventing duty free access to the South African market).
                                           Figure 2: Project timeline




2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

47. Design: The design of the M&E framework was weak on several fronts. First, the key
indicators—jobs, tourist arrivals, volume of sea and air cargo—chosen as proxy measures for the
“economic growth” PDO objective were not precisely specified (e.g. did they refer to gross or
net jobs created, direct or indirect, etc.) and were also subject to various external influences and


10
    The zebu (cow) thefts are motivated by a Malagasy tradition in the southern region where men are seen to 
prove their courage and worth by stealing cows. 
11
    Production was initially constrained by the selection of wet mining as the primary extraction method, which 
proved ill‐suited to the conditions in Fort Dauphin, and required QMM to make technical adjustments and shift to 
a combination of wet and dry mining before it could ramp up its production volume. 
12
    The country’s eligibility of AGOA preferences, starting October 2000, helped it establish a significant textiles and 
clothing sector—export processing zone (EPZ) exports were worth US$0.82 billion in 2008 (EIU, 2010). 
                                                           12
cyclical factors that made establishing causal linkages to project activities especially difficult.13
Second, baselines and targets for many indicators were not established at the time of appraisal,
nor was the timeframe for data collection and the institutions responsible. Finally, although the
systems for monitoring social and environmental impacts were strong—IG2P was classified as a
category A project and would undergo regular internal safeguard reviews as well as periodic
inspections by an independent and external Advisory Panel—feedback mechanisms for assessing
the economic impact of project interventions on the private sector were not institutionalized,
particularly for MSME support activities such as TVET, BDS, and access to finance (e.g.
business survival rates, profitability, average wage increase, etc). In this regard, the project could
have benefited from allocating some resources at the outset to conduct an enterprise survey,14
both to better understand factors constraining firm growth and to establish baselines for tracking
progress along these various dimensions.

48. Implementation. It took over two years to develop baselines and collection systems for
many outcome indicators. For Fort Dauphin, the implementation team was able to leverage the
significant resources of Rio Tinto to gather key data on jobs and mining and port activity. The
establishment of the EDBM also provided a new institutional structure for monitoring business
creation in the regional poles, although not necessarily for evaluating the subsequent
performance of these registered firms. To incorporate these new data sources and reflect other
data collection capacity improvements at the municipal level, the results framework was revised
at the time of the first project restructuring in 2007, although attribution for certain indicators
remained weak.15 It was not until the second restructuring of the project in 2012 that the PDO
was formally revised to allow for a clearer and more direct mapping of project objectives to
measured outcomes. In 2014, a comprehensive enterprise survey was administered to more than
2100 formal and informal Malagasy firms over 8 different regions, helping to: (1) plug some of
the information gaps on firms’ financial performance and key infrastructure and business
environment constraints; (2) facilitate comparisons across the regions and aid in the analysis of
IG2P’s specific impacts; and (3) establish baselines for IG2P’s successor project, PIC2.

49. Utilization: Outputs across components were carefully tracked, delays and complications
addressed in a timely manner, and adjustments made based on the results of ongoing feasibility
studies and evolving national and local priorities. Social and environmental impacts were also
regularly assessed and remedial actions taken, drawing on the expertise and recommendations of
the various Independent Advisory Panel reports. With respect to assessing economic outcomes,
however, the project (due to its weak initial M&E framework) was relying primarily on
anecdotal evidence during the first few years of implementation, which limited the ability to
conduct a proper impact evaluation at the mid-term review in 2008 and re-allocate project
resources accordingly. The Bank ultimately commissioned an ex-post impact evaluation of IG2P
in 2014 (as well as of the PARC matching grant scheme), but these evaluations came too late in
project cycle to have any bearing on implementation or resource allocations decisions.


13
    To the project’s defense, this vagueness and weak attribution of results indicators was characteristic of many of 
the World Bank’s investment projects at the time. Nonetheless, this does not excuse the fact that, in project of this 
multi‐sectoral nature and complexity, more consideration should have been given to these issues at the outset. 
14
    An enterprise survey had been administered in 2005 with the assistance of the World Bank, but it was for 
broader statistical purposes and not linked to IG2P. As such, it did not cover firms in the IG2P regions. 
15
    The most notable was the newly‐introduced PDO indicator on the volume of private investment flows, which 
was measured only at the aggregated national level and subject to fluctuations in external financing conditions. 
                                                         13
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

50. Over the course of implementation, compliance with safeguards policies was closely
monitored and remedial measures taken promptly and decisively. The World Bank
safeguards team carried out a comprehensive Social Impact Audit for the Project mid-term
review in January 2008 and responded to its findings and recommendations accordingly. In
addition, the inputs from the Independent Advisory Panel, which produced three comprehensive
reports during the course of project implementation, helped the IG2P team keep a pulse on local
impacts and social safeguards issues and implement midcourse corrections.

Fort Dauphin

51. While QMM’s mining investment unlocked a new source of growth for Fort Dauphin,
it also created significant safeguards challenges in the mining communes. The income and
livelihood restoration program implemented by QMM for residents of the mining communes was
marked by recurring disputes over the prices the company paid to buy their land and the
employment policy at its mining facility. This prompted local residents at various times to
roadblock QMM construction sites and facilities, with the most recent flare up in early 2013
when they blocked the mine compound entrance, trapping more than 200 staff inside. The
grievance redress mechanisms set up by the World Bank during the project and QMM’s various
social assistance programs (see Annex 7) helped to manage these disputes and prevent violent
escalations. Some tensions linger, however, requiring ongoing monitoring and engagement by
QMM with residents who still feel they were unfairly compensated.16

52. Beyond the complications with mining operations, IG2P also had to manage several
other unintended and adverse social impacts. These included an acute bout of consumer price
inflation during the construction of the mine and Ehoala Port, and declining employment
opportunities after the construction period, as well as increased risk of HIV/AIDS in light of the
growing incidence of STDs.

Nosy Be

53. In Nosy Be, environmental and social adversities were milder than in Fort Dauphin,
and promptly addressed throughout project implementation. The implementation of the
RAPs in Nosy Be has been largely satisfactory and there are no major issues pending. Threats to
the environmental degradation of Nosy Be’s prime ecotourism sites—Nosy Tanikely and Mont
Passot—have also been largely addressed through their preservation and dedicated site
management. In addition, the safety issues related to recurrent flooding at Dalot Marodoka have
been remedied through the construction of reinforced river banks, as have the safety concerns
related to Hellville Port, which was assessed by several port experts to be on the verge of
structural collapse prior to its rehabilitation in 2013-14. However, efforts to deal with socially-
adverse impacts of tourism, particularly sex tourism, could arguably still be enhanced.

16
  An independent audit of the project’s Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was launched in 2014 to examine project 
compliance with Para.24 of OP 4.12 and Para.16 of BP 4.12. In response, QMM also recently developed a Strategic 
Social Approach to help local communities benefit from its social and economic programs. PAPs that have yet to 
obtain compensation at agreed levels following the RAP Audit could potentially gain from this new program. 
                                                      14
Fiduciary management

54. No major issues in fiduciary management were encountered during the project. Project
financial statements and audit reports were generally submitted on time and in compliance with
Bank standards. The final audit report was submitted to the Bank in May 2015.

Procurement

55. Compliance with procurement rules was satisfactory throughout the project. There
were some difficulties, however, in adhering to procurement plans in the early stages when the
government failed to deliver on its financial commitments to the project. This necessitated
frequent revisions to the procurement plans to compensate for shortfalls relative to budgeted
amounts. After the project was first restructured in late 2007 to provide 100 percent Bank
financing to all eligible expenditure categories, this issue was no longer a problem.

2.5 Post-completion operation

56. The Second Madagascar Integrated Growth Poles and Corridors Project (PIC2) will
help sustain and build on the outcomes of IG2P. PIC2 will continue to provide technical
assistance in Fort Dauphin and Nosy Be in areas such as solid waste collection, standpipe
management, local governance, and the management of natural assets. This will ensure that
knowledge and capacity transfers continue to take place over time and help protect IG2P’s
legacy. PIC2 will also broaden IG2P’s geographic reach from Nosy Be to the the 250 km
northern corridor from Ambanja to Antsiranana in the Diana Region, and add a new growth
corridor along RN9 in the Atsimo-Andrefana Region to support tourism and agribusiness
development and improve delivery of services in one of Madagascar’s other poorest regions (see
map in Annex 10). Finally, PIC2 will support reforms to regulations and policies that constrained
sectors targeted by IG2P from realizing their full growth potential: entire sub-components will be
dedicated to TA for reforming national air access policies and strategies, and support to JIRAMA
to improve its bill processing and collection, technical efficiency, and quality of services.

57. PIC2 will also ensure adequate budget, staffing and management for continued focus
on IG2P’s development objectives and integration of lessons learned from its
implementation. As in the case of IG2P, an entire component in PIC2 is devoted to project
management, monitoring, and evaluation. On account of his strong performance, the head of the
PIU for IG2P was reappointed to lead the PIU for PIC2. PIC2’s specific interventions will also
be led by WBG technical staff and various PIU staff involved in IG2P who will draw on their
experiences to seamlessly transition to the new geographical areas.

58. An impact evaluation of IG2P and continued monitoring of its outcomes will be aided
by the recent Enterprise Survey. The data are being used to prepare an impact assessment of
IG2P and an investment climate assessment benchmarking Madagascar with other countries. The
survey also helped inform the technical design of PIC2 and provide baselines for its key outcome
indicators, many of which are the same as in IG2P (e.g. job and business creation) and will thus
promote continuity in tracking the ongoing impacts of IG2P.

3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of objectives, design, and implementation
                                             15
Rating: Substantial

59. Objectives [High]. At the project’s inception, the PDO of stimulating equitable and
sustainable growth across high-potential regions was a central element of the government’s
development strategy, and remains highly relevant at project completion (as does the narrower
revised PDO formulation targeting job and business creation more specifically). The
government’s 2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the 2004-2006 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) set out three major priorities: (i) improving governance; (ii)
promoting broad-based growth (with a focus on reducing rural poverty); and (iii) providing
human and material security. IG2P’s multi-region focus directly advanced the second priority
and indirectly supported the other two priorities through capacity building for local authorities
and improved access to basic services (e.g. water, electricity, sanitation). In the same vein, the
project continued to build on the most recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY07-11,17
which aimed at removing bottlenecks to sustainable and shared growth and improving service
delivery. At completion, the project was firmly anchored within the GoM’s current National
Development Plan and the policy agenda to boost the tourism and agriculture sectors, which
since the beginning were supported by IGP2’s activities in Fort Dauphin and Nosy Be.

60. Design [Substantial]. The project design (rated substantial under both the original and
revised PDO) recognized that single-sector approaches were unlikely to provide the necessary
platform for broad-based and inclusive growth in the targeted regional poles. For this reason,
each regional pole component was designed with a set of integrated activities that simultaneously
touched on multiple dimensions of the growth platform (e.g. infrastructure, human capital
formation, governance capacity, etc.). Meanwhile, activities aimed at relieving business
environment constraints common to all three poles were aggregated under the project’s cross-
cutting component (component A) to capture implementation synergies. In this sense, the results
chain to the ultimate PDO of improved regional growth was clear and relevant, even if the M&E
framework for measuring and tracking the impact of these interventions was fairly weak at the
outset (this is reflected in a lower quality of entry rating in section 5). The design also recognized
the importance of partnerships with the private sector and other donors, as reflected in the PCGS
run through Madagascar’s two largest private banks and the partnership with Rio Tinto in Fort
Dauphin to crowd in nearly $1 billion of private investment. That said, the overall complexity of
the design and multiplicity of subcomponents deprived the project of focus, and made attribution
of outcomes to specific activities difficult to disentangle.18 Furthermore, the inclusion of the
Antananarivo-Antsirabe as a regional pole was poorly aligned with the strategic priority of
narrowing regional income gaps, as this region was already among the richest in Madagascar.

61. Implementation [High]. The World Bank’s implementation support adapted swiftly to
changing economic and political circumstances, with IG2P undergoing two major and several
minor restructurings, helping to ensure its objectives and activities remained relevant. The first
restructuring arose out of a proactive effort to re-align the project to the government’s updated
poverty reduction strategy for 2007-12—the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP)—primarily by
supporting the creation of the EDBM as a vehicle for the heightened priority to promote foreign
investment in the country. During the acute period of political crisis (2009-2011) when formal
17
    A more recent CAS has yet to be prepared due to the effective suspension of Bank engagement with 
Madagascar’s central government during the 2009‐2014 political crisis period. 
18
    It is difficult to make a case that all 87 project activities were essential to the achievement of the PDO and could 
not be rationalized to some degree, but this is more an issue of design efficiency as opposed to design relevance. 
                                                           16
World Bank relations with the central government were suspended, the project continued to
provide emergency support for critical infrastructure works (whose termination would pose
safeguards risks), and to remain engaged and attuned to the needs of the regional poles amidst
the power vacuum and loss of development focus at the central government level. Finally, with
the second level one restructuring in 2012, the project re-focused on activities that remained
feasible in the post-crisis environment, and entirely dropped support for the Antananarivo-
Antsirabe component, which had been undermined by the loss of private sector interest in the
wake of the crisis and the cancellation of key trade agreements for Madagascar’s exports.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

62. The core element of the original PDO was to “stimulate and lead economic growth in the
three selected regional poles.” This broad nature of this objective means it must be assessed on
the basis of the outcome indicators used as proxy measures for this growth, some of which
changed during the project but the core three of which were: (i) job creation, (ii) business
creation, and (iii) private investment. This economic growth was to be achieved by way of
“providing an adequate business environment,” an intermediate outcome that was further
clarified through the four sub-objectives in the original PDO, each corresponding to a key
dimension of this growth platform that IG2P aimed to put in place.19 Therefore, these sub-
elements are treated as intermediate rather than PDO outcomes, and the chain of inputs and
outputs in each project component leading to their achievement is detailed in Annex 2.

63. The revised PDO was a narrower reformulation of the original PDO, focusing
specifically on two dimensions of the original economic growth objective: “business and
formal job creation, in particular in the mining, tourism, and agribusiness sectors.” The
revised PDO also limited its geographical focus to the two growth pole regions remaining in the
project after the second level one restructuring—Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin. Because these job
and business creation objectives and their corresponding outcome indicators are the same as two
of the outcome indicators measuring the achievement of the original PDO, there is an inherent
continuity in the project’s original and revised objectives.

64. Therefore, for presentational purposes, the efficacy assessment below is organized
around the three core PDO elements that collectively cover both the original and revised
PDO: (i) job creation, (ii) business creation, and (iii) private investment. The efficacy ratings
(overall, and relative to both original and revised PDO) are then derived on the basis of the
achievement of outcome indicators linked to these PDO elements (and the strength of attribution
to project interventions). This indicator-driven rating approach is necessary to account for the
change in outcome indicator targets at the time the PDO was revised. Note that the two outcome
indicators for the original PDO (volume of port/airport traffic and tourist arrivals) that were
dropped or reclassified early in the project are not discussed here for the sake of brevity, but they
factor partially into the overall efficacy assessment and are explained and assessed in Annex 2.

19
   These sub‐objectives included: (1) “…put in place appropriate incentive measures to achieve rapid growth” 
(Business environment); (2) “…construct and rehabilitate critical infrastructure essential for sustained economic 
activity in the tourism, manufacturing, agribusiness and mining sectors” (Enabling infrastructure); (3) “…develop 
the instruments to ensure equitable, sustainable growth” (Access to basic services); and (4 “…strengthen the 
capacity of local authorities to formulate, prepare, implement, and manage medium‐ and long‐term integrated 
regional development projects in the future” (Local governance). 
                                                        17
65. The achievement of both the original and revised PDOs must be viewed in the context
of the economic malaise in Madagascar during most of the project. Therefore, outcomes
must be assessed not only in relation to their respective targets, but also relative to trends in other
areas of the country where there were no IG2P interventions. In other words, if economic
underperformance during the crisis in IG2P regions was less severe than in non-IG2P regions,
this would suggest the project positively impacted the resilience of its targeted regions.

(i) Key outcome #1: Job creation
Rating: Substantial

Achievement of outcome and associated indicators
66. Outcome indicators on job creation in the three regional poles were partially achieved
relative to original targets, and outperformed revised targets.20 By 2012, the cumulative
number of new jobs created since the beginning of the project was running below-target in
Antananarivo-Antsirabe and Nosy Be (owing largely to the crisis), but well ahead of pace in Fort
Dauphin (where the booming mining activity was providing some offset). Expectations were
therefore adjusted during 2012 restructuring—revised down slightly for Nosy Be and revised up
for Fort Dauphin—and were ultimately exceeded by a large margin in both poles. The story was
similar for sector-specific job indicators: tourism job creation in Nosy Be fell short of original
targets but exceeded the revised ones; in Fort Dauphin, job creation in tourism achieved original
targets and underperformed revised targets, but exceeded both original and revised targets in the
mining, construction, and agribusiness sectors. Because all these indicators refer to gross job
creation, it is also important to look at job flows on a net basis to account for employment losses
during various phases of the project.21 These net job creation figures reveal a similar trend—
around 4,600 net jobs created in Nosy Be since 2008 and 4,050 in Fort Dauphin—reaffirming the
positive employment generation impact of the project.22

67. This jobs data (from CNaPS) does not factor in growth in informal employment, as it is
based on a sample of firms as opposed to an exhaustive census and tracks only formally-
registered jobs. As a result, the level of overall job creation is likely to have been considerably
higher than the results framework indicators suggest, although it is difficult to say by how much.

Attribution

68. In Nosy Be, the impacts of IG2P support on job creation are traceable on both the
supply and demand side. From a demand perspective, increased employment opportunities
arose from the investment in hotels and tourism services that IG2P’s growth platform helped to
crowd in, the activities financed through matching grants, the valorization of ecotourist sites such
as Nosy Tanikely and Mont Passot, and the improved connectivity to markets for farmers along
the island’s northern V1 and V2 roads. On the supply side, the project’s financing of the CTHT
hotel school and other dedicated vocational programs trained boat captains, cooks, and other
hotel and tourism professionals. This support in matching the island’s labor supply to the
20
    There were no revised job creation targets for the Antananarivo‐Antsirabe pole since it was dropped as a project 
component as part of the second project restructuring in 2012. 
21
    These include: (i) the economic downturn during the political crisis; (ii) the aforementioned closure of Nosy Be’s 
two largest employers—SIRAMA in 2009 and UNIMA in 2011; and (iii) QMM’s sharp reduction in employees in 
2009 following the end of the construction phase of its mining facility and Ehoala Port in Fort Dauphin. 
22
    This net job creation data is only available since 2008. 
                                                         18
growing needs of the tourism sector proved critical, both as a countercyclical cushion during the
crisis and closing of SIRAMA and UNIMA, and as a longer-term enabler for tourism to take
over as the key job-generating sector in Nosy Be (it accounted for 62 percent of net jobs created
between 2008 and 2014, and its share in total employment rose from 4 to 18 percent).

69. In Fort Dauphin, IG2Ps supply and demand causal chain to employment was similar.
The project helped unlock the mining sector as a major employer in the local economy,
supported improved agribusiness job opportunities in Amboasary and along the RIP118, and
helped establish vocational training and employment support institutions to match workers to
these activities. Further benefits can be traced to the partnership with Rio Tinto/QMM, both for
the various elements of the growth platform the company helped to finance (electricity and water
infrastructure, training institutions such as CARA) and for the local workers it directly employed
at its mining and port facilities—around 4,500 during the construction of the mine and Ehoala
port, and 600 regular staff since 2009. QMM also estimates that its mining and port operations
indirectly created around 1,000 jobs in other sectors along the supply chain, which (along with
its direct employment) induced around 11,000 additional jobs (see Annex 7 for details).

70. The weakest link between IG2Ps interventions and job outcomes was in Antananarivo-
Antsirabe. Job creation in the capital city was robust over the project period, but IG2P support
there was limited to the credit guarantee scheme, which generated significant new lending but
did not document the job impacts of this improved access to finance. The same is true of
Antsirabe, where manufacturing employment grew by 36 percent (4,980 workers) between 2008
and 2014, but cannot be reasonably attributed to IG2P, which trained only a few hundred
workers and students in the garment and IT industries, and failed to deliver on its big-ticket job-
generating items: the establishment of an ICT Business Park and agro techno-pole.

(ii) Key outcome #2: Business creation
Rating: High

Achievement of outcome and associated indicators
71. Both the initial and revised targets for formal business creation were exceeded by a
significant margin in all three regional poles. The outperformance relative to end-project
targets was around 1,000 firms in Antananarivo-Antsirabe, 1,200 firms in Nosy Be, and 800 in
Fort Dauphin. Considering that this data refers only to fully formal firms (those that have
completed a three-step registration process with the Registry of Trade and Companies, INSTAT,
and the Fiscal Center) the magnitude of firm creation was in reality even higher—since 2005, an
additional 3,452 firms that had only partially completed the formalization process were created
in Nosy Be and 873 in Fort Dauphin. However, this is tempered somewhat by the fact that these
figures measure gross business creation; data on business failures and closings are not available
on a consistent basis, so the net impact is likely somewhere in between.23

72. Fiscal data suggest that these new firms have generated significant additional economic
output. The number of firms created is only part of the story as it does not reveal anything about

23
   There is some data on business destruction, but it is incomplete as it only captures businesses that voluntarily 
report their termination of activities to public authorities. In realigning the business creation indicator targets 
during the second project restructuring in 2012, the project’s M&E team incorporated an estimate of business 
destruction between 2009 and 2011 into the outcome indicator, but these figures are not official. 
                                                         19
       their size and economic contribution. While firm-level output and turnover data is not available
       in the regional poles, the taxes paid by firms can serve as a reasonable proxy of their activity
       growth.24 In Fort Dauphin, corporate income tax (IR/IS) paid grew at an average annual rate of
       85 percent during the project, increasing by a factor of 60 from its 2005 value (Figure 4). Similar
       data exist for the other regional poles but were not available for analysis at the time of the ICR.

Figure 4: Corporate Income tax paid by Fort Dauphin                   Figure 5: Cumulative firm creation since 2005 by region
                       Firms
 million Ariary                                                        number of firms
 800                                                                   3,500
                                                                                         Antananarivo
 700                                                                   3,000
                                                                                         Antsirabe
 600                                                                                     Nosy Be
                                                                       2,500
                                                                                         Fort Dauphin
 500
                                                                       2,000             Antsiranana
 400                                                                                     Mahajanga
                                                                       1,500             Toamasina
 300
                                                                                         Fianarantsoa
 200                                                                   1,000             Toliara

 100                                                                    500

   0
                                                                           0
        2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014                      2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Source: Fort Dauphin fiscal center                                    Source: EDBM



       Attribution

       73. A comparison across regions reveals that gross firm creation in Nosy Be and Fort
       Dauphin over the project period was significantly faster than in regions that did not receive
       IG2P support (Figure 5), suggesting the project played an important role in promoting
       business formation. Furthermore, it is likely that many informal firms were also created in the
       process, but as in the case of jobs, the magnitude of this informal activity is difficult to verify
       empirically. The case for such project impacts is weaker in the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole,
       where business creation did not differ significantly from non-IG2P regions.

       74. The BDS institutions established through IG2P directly stimulated business creation in
       the regional poles. In Fort Dauphin, CARA’s business skills and entrepreneurship training led to
       formation of 196 small businesses over the project period. Meanwhile, the establishment of the
       CGA in all three regional poles was critical in bringing many informal entrepreneurs into the
       formal sector: firms could become eligible for the tax benefits associated with CGA membership
       only if they formalized. By 2014, CGA had amassed 150 members in Fort Dauphin, 70 in Nosy
       Be, and 148 in Antsirabe, firms which are all reflected in IG2Ps formal business creation
       indicator. Furthermore, CGA regularly monitors these member firms and provides them with
       ongoing training and business services, supporting their future growth and development.



       24
          The proxy is imperfect in the sense that changes in tax policy or collection capacity also affect the amount of tax 
       ultimately paid by firms, but it is the best indicator available at the regional level in Madagascar. 
                                                                 20
(iii) Key outcome #3: Private investment
Rating: Substantial

Achievement of outcome and associated indicators
75. The results indicator for private investment flows was on track with targets through
2009, but then experienced a sharp drop with the onset of the political crisis, missing its
end-project target. In any case, the indicator was problematic as it reported total investment at
the national level and did not allow for precise tracking of developments in the regional poles; it
was dropped as part of second project restructuring due to this and other attribution issues.

76. The ultimate impact on private investment in the poles over the project period
therefore has to be estimated piecemeal from other sources:

    In Fort Dauphin, the vast majority came through IG2P’s partnership with QMM, which
     crowded in around $900 million of private capital: $221 million for the Ehoala Port, $675
     million for the mining facility, and $4 million for water and electricity supply infrastructure.

    In Nosy Be, private investment was in concentrated in hotels and tourism services. Around
     130 new hotels were built during the project period and many others upgraded, more than
     doubling the island’s room capacity and raising the overall quality of the hotel stock—the
     share of hotels with a 3- and 4-star rating rose from only 11 percent in 2005 to 33 percent in
     2014. A number of sizeable new privately-owned recreation facilities and tourist parks were
     also opened, such as the $1 million Pearls golf course, and the Lemurialand animal park.

    Across these two regional poles, IG2P’s matching grant scheme (PARC) also mobilized
     around $1.8 million co-investment by private beneficiaries across a range of sectors (but
     primarily in agriculture and tourism). Before its closing, PARC was also supporting two
     large investment projects in Fort Dauphin that were on the verge of materializing: (1)
     BOVIMA, an $8-11 million export-oriented abattoir project aiming to operate out of Ehoala
     Park; and (2) a fruit processing plant by a domestic investor.

77. The main shortcomings in private investment related to Antananarivo-Antsirabe,
where planned private investments in a $60 million ICT Business Park and an agro techno-pole
were never realized due to the political crisis and the associated collapse in investor sentiment.25

Attribution

78. In Nosy Be, the shared infrastructure upgraded by IG2P helped reduce entry costs for
investors in tourism and the sustainability of their operations (through more reliable electricity
and water supply). The completion of the island’s Ring Road was particularly important, as it
improved connectivity to the northern and western parts of the island and made investments in
these areas (such as the Pearls golf course and Lemurialand) economically viable.26


25
    Another factor was the failure to secure the land designated for the ICT business park (it became occupied by 
local residents). 
26
    Less consequential were IG2P’s interventions to facilitate land access for private investors through designated 
tourism reserve lands (RFTs). The process of securing tenure rights and concession contracts for the 7 designated 
lands dragged on for most of the project; in the end, only the 3 lands formerly owned by SIRAMA attracted 
                                                         21
79. In Fort Dauphin, IG2P not only brought forward the timeline of Rio Tinto/QMM’s mine
and port investments (which in retrospect would likely have been delayed significantly27), but
also mobilized the company to undertake many socially-oriented investments that were not
originally planned (e.g. upgrading of public infrastructure, TVET institutions, etc.). Indirectly,
IG2P’s partnership with QMM has also had a demonstrative effect for other foreign mining
companies considering investing in Madagascar, giving them the precedent and confidence to
move ahead with their projects.28

80. In Antananarivo-Antsirabe, private investment occurring throughout the project cannot be
convincingly attributed to IG2P interventions, which were limited and suspended in 2009.

Overall efficacy

81. The project’s overall efficacy in achieving its PDO is rated as substantial. This is based
on the above assessment of outcomes (and their attribution to project interventions) relative to
both the original and revised PDO and their indicator targets, weighted by the amount of
disbursements between each phase of revisions. The breakdown of outcome ratings and their
weighted aggregation is derived in detail in Table A7 of Annex 2. The analysis demonstrates a
substantial efficacy rating against the original PDO (dampened by the shortfall in job growth
relative to initial targets in Nosy Be and the poor attribution of project activities to measured
results in the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole) and a high efficacy rating against the revised PDO
(reflecting the strong outperformance of targets for job and business creation objectives), the
weighted sum of which results in an overall substantial efficacy rating.


3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Modest

82. The economic rate of return (ERR) of IG2P fell short of initial projections. Based on
the update of the economic analysis (detailed in Annex 3), the project’s ERR at the time of this
ICR is estimated at 9.3 percent, lower than the 14.5 percent projected at the time of appraisal
(Table 1). For the Antananarivo-Antsirabe regional pole which was dropped from the project in
2012, this “ex-post” ERR is estimated to be negative as the interventions there were largely a
sunk cost, delivering few measureable returns. The estimated ERR is positive in both Nosy Be
and Fort Dauphin, but exceeds the 10 percent opportunity cost of capital used for the valuation
only in the latter, implying Fort Dauphin is the only regional pole where IG2P delivered positive
gains on a net present value (NPV) basis.29



legitimate private interest. Meanwhile, investment in non‐designated areas continued to flow in regardless, as 
private investors proved more effective at sorting out land access issues on their own. 
27
    Had Rio Tinto waited another 4‐5 years to undertake its mining investment (i.e. until 2009), as was originally 
assumed at the time of IG2P appraisal, it would have been faced with the outbreak of the political crisis and then 
by depressed global prices for ilmenite. In this environment, it is likely the company would have waited a further 
10‐15 years to invest in Madagascar, if at all. 
28
    Recent examples include the $7 billion Ambotavy nickel mining investment at Moramanga (80km east of 
Antananarivo), which represents the largest foreign investment in the history of Madagascar. 
29
    While this economic analysis framework can never fully capture all the ex‐post benefits (and indirect costs) of 
the project, it nevertheless provides a useful basis comparing efficiency relative to estimates at appraisal. 
                                                         22
                     Table 1: Estimates of IG2P economic rate of return (ERR)

                                          ERR (at 10 percent real discount rate)
                                                                                                          Share of
Regional pole                   Appraisal stage              ICR              ICR (adjusted for           project
                                                                                OP/BP 7.30)               costs**
                                                                                  period*

Nosy Be                              17.9%                  7.7%                     9.1%                    41%
Fort Dauphin                         12.9%                  12.0%                   14.4%                    55%
Antananarivo-Antsirabe               10.5%                Negative                 Negative                   4%
TOTAL                                14.5%                  9.3%                    11.1%                   100%
*
  This alternative scenario is based on the following assumptions. On the cost side, project expenditures in each pole
between 2011 and 2014 are brought forward by two years and spread out evenly so that full disbursement is
achieved by end-2012. On the benefit side, it is assumed (conservatively) that benefit flows between 2009 and 2012
would have been roughly 1/4th higher than the baseline case in each regional pole. For 2013 onwards, benefits
evolve in the same manner as after 2014 in the baseline scenario. In other words, since the project’s investments
would have been completed in 2012 as opposed to 2014, the post-project benefit flows begin 2 years earlier.
**
   Assumes a regional distribution of costs in component E (Project management and M&E) as follows: 50% in Fort
Dauphin, 30% in Nosy Be, and 20% in Antananarivo-Antsirabe prior to 2009, and 60% in Fort Dauphin and 40% in
Nosy Be after 2009. For component A (Strengthening the Business Environment), the assumed distribution is: 25%
in Fort Dauphin, 45% in Nosy Be, and 25% in Antananarivo-Antsirabe prior to 2009, and 35% in Fort Dauphin and
65% in Nosy Be after 2009.

83. Several key factors on both the cost and benefit side, many outside the direct control of
the project, underpin this shortfall in the ERR relative to initial estimates:

    A longer project timeframe than originally planned: The extension of the project for 4
     years beyond its original closing date (2010) delayed the realization of benefits and their net
     present value, but had a relatively smaller temporal impact on the project’s expenditures, 70
     percent of which still occurred before 2010.30 However, these delays should not be seen as a
     failure of project implementation, per se, as disbursements were involuntarily reduced during
     the 28 months of the OP/BP 7.30 period and constrained the project’s ability to complete
     critical works on time and generate associated benefits. Had the project been able to fully
     disburse by 2012 as planned, and assuming that these investments had been able to mitigate
     some of the fallout from the crisis, the estimated overall ERR would have been almost 2
     percentage points higher and above the cut-off discount rate of 10 percent (see Table 1).

    Cost overruns and additional financing. The project encountered significant cost overruns
     during the first few years of implementation (2006-07) in many of its infrastructure works
     (roads, ports, and water supply) and in the implementation of resettlement action plans for
     PAPs. While these overruns were largely due to exogenous macroeconomic factors such as
     increased local inflation and currency appreciation (which raised the USD cost of local
     purchases),31 they also reflected the preliminary nature of engineering design plans during

30
    The estimated NPV of total project benefits fell from $179 million at appraisal to $108 million in the ICR 
estimate, whereas the NPV of project costs declined much less (from $132 million to $117 million). 
31
    The Ariary appreciated 20 percent against the dollar between 2006 and 2008. 
                                                          23
     project appraisal, many of which proved more costly once they were finalized and bid out to
     contractors.32 The $40 million in additional project financing to compensate for these cost
     overruns and plug other project financing gaps ultimately shaved around 2 percentage points
     off the estimated ex-post ERR of the project. This negative impact was not larger because
     $17 million of the additional financing was to replace the shortfall in the government’s
     contribution to the project, which was already part of the project’s financing framework. In
     the end, the total project cost was around $140 million higher-than-estimated at the time of
     appraisal (mostly on account of the Ehoala Port cost overrun), of which $23 million was
     absorbed by the additional IDA credit, and the rest by the private sector (see Annex 1).

    Dampening effects of the political and economic crisis. The crisis depressed economic
     activity across a range of sectors targeted by IG2P, but hit tourism—which was expected to
     account for the entirety of economic rents generated by the project in Nosy Be, and about a
     third of those projected for Fort Dauphin—particularly hard. The annual rate of tourist
     arrivals rose to only 64,500 by 2014 in Nosy Be compared to the 90,500 assumed in the
     original economic analysis, and to 33,330 in Fort Dauphin compared to the 50,960 originally
     projected. This shortfall depressed a range of associated benefits factored into the economic
     analysis, including visa fees and hotel taxes collected by government, tourist spending on
     local goods, services, and attractions (such as national parks), and employment income for
     jobs directly and indirectly created by the expansion of tourist activity.33

    The cancellation of the Antananarivo-Antsirabe regional pole. The economic return of
     this pole hinged on its ability to generate at least 1,000 jobs per year in EPZ zones and in the
     planned ICT Business Park and agro techno-pole, both of which failed to materialize. In the
     end, the $6.8 million invested in the pole (inclusive of component A and project management
     costs) can hardly be credited for subsequent job growth in the region (as discussed in section
     3.2). Fortunately, because this amount was a fraction of the $17 million originally budgeted
     for the pole, it had only a marginal impact on the overall project ERR.

    Other adverse region-specific developments. In Fort Dauphin, QMM’s delayed ramp-up of
     ilmenite production and declining global prices for the ore resulted in lower-than-expected
     revenues for the company and a $20 million (inflation-adjusted) shortfall in taxes and
     royalties paid to the GoM. In addition, many agricultural products expected to be exported on
     a larger scale due the new Ehoala port (such as lychee and rosy periwinkle) remained
     primarily for domestic consumption, meaning the associated rents from selling abroad at
     higher prices could not be fully captured. In Nosy Be, delays in rehabilitating the Hellville
     and Ankify ports (they were not completed until late 2014) had a similar dampening effect on
     agriculture and fishing rents, and also delayed the boost in tourist arrivals that was expected
     from the capacity of the port to accommodate larger cruise ships.

84. The project’s cost overruns also exposed key inefficiencies in the project design and the
distribution of expenditures between components. In some activities, the inefficient use

32
    A pertinent example is the construction of Ehoala Port, which encountered costly technical complications after 
appraisal, such as the need to modify the breakwater design to withstand the cyclonic wind speeds in southeastern 
Madagascar, and stabilize the sand dune foundation on which the road from the Port to the mine had to be built. 
33
    The shortfall in visa‐related revenues was further compounded the government’s decision in 2009 to abolish the 
visa fee for tourists staying in Madagascar for less than 30 days. Statistics show that tourists spend an average of 
21 days in Madagascar, meaning a large majority are now exempt from visa fees. 
                                                        24
project funds was glaring, such as the $5 million subsidy to JIRAMA for emergency fuel
purchases that brought no longer-term economic return. In other cases such as the Ehoala Port,
the value added of IG2P financing was more debatable. Although IG2P was instrumental in
catalyzing and negotiating Rio Tinto’s investment in Fort Dauphin, one wonders whether this
could have been achieved with a smaller financial contribution to the Ehoala Port (the $35
million spent was 21 percent of the initial IDA allocation), especially since QMM was willing to
shoulder the full burden of the port’s cost overruns—it ultimately invested $221 million
compared to the $50 million originally planned.

85. In this context, overall efficiency is rated modest. This assessment is based on the low ex-
post project ERR relative to initial estimates and the assumed opportunity cost of capital, which
reflects the fact that additional money was put into the project for an ultimately lower amount of
estimated benefits (in NPV terms). The rating is not lower because it recognizes that much of the
shortfall in benefits relates to factors outside the project’s direct control. Moreover, while there
was some scope for improved efficiency in the project design, it is not clear how much else could
have been done to correct for this during implementation. The cancellation of the Antananarivo-
Antsirabe pole helped to cut losses associated with the non-performance of this component, and
other low-return activities were rationalized as part of the project’s various restructurings.

3.4. Justification of overall outcome rating
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

86. The overall project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. Under the original PDO,
relevance is rated substantial, efficacy is rated substantial, and efficiency is modest. Under the
revised PDO, relevance is rated substantial, efficacy is rated high, and efficiency is modest. In
both cases, the OPCS guidelines on aggregating these three main assessment categories result in
an overall outcome rating of moderately satisfactory (implying no need to perform a
disbursement-weighted sum despite the split evaluation). First and foremost, this overall
outcome rating recognizes the difficult political and economic environment in which IG2P
operated for the majority of its duration, which makes its achievements even more impressive.
The relevance of objectives and design were maintained throughout owing to the proactive mid-
course adjustments by the implementation team and the project’s two formal restructurings.
Although the PDO was revised, the essence of the project’s objectives—stimulating economic
growth in high-potential sectors—remained unchanged, and the two primary outcome indicators
measuring this growth progress (job creation and business formation) were both achieved. The
reformulation of the PDO to link it more explicitly to these two outcome indicators also reflects
favorably in the project’s overall rating. Counterbalancing these positive aspects is the poor
performance of the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole, although the small share of project resources
ultimately devoted to this component limit its impact on the overall assessment. Finally,
shortcomings in efficiency related to a lower-than-projected ERR and the provision of additional
financing are also a negative drag on the project’s value-for-money, leading to an overall
outcome rating of moderately satisfactory.

3.5. Overarching themes, outcomes, and other impacts
(a) Poverty, gender and social
87. IG2P’s interventions contributed to poverty reduction through four key channels:

                                                25
    Improved access to basic services. Through infrastructure upgrading and institutional
     support, IG2P helped boost access to potable water from 13 to 74 percent of the population in
     Nosy Be and 50 to 95 percent in Fort Dauphin; access to solid waste collection services from
     43 to 80 percent in Nosy Be and 26 to essentially 100 percent in Fort Dauphin; and access to
     electricity from 20 to 35 percent in Nosy Be and to nearly the entire population in Fort
     Dauphin. The longer-term impacts of this improved access have yet to be felt, but generally
     manifest themselves in a reduced mortality rates and higher workforce productivity.

    Skills formation and promotion of entrepreneurship. IG2P’s various TVET and BDS
     programs helped poor residents improve their employability for formal wage jobs and their
     capacity to generate higher paid self-employment. The trainings and the confidence they
     instilled in recipients also helped foster a culture of entrepreneurship that did not previously
     exist in the two regions—around 90 percent of firms created since 2005 were self-owned.

    Economic connectivity through improved infrastructure. The strongest impacts have
     been for rural farmers previously disconnected from markets for their goods, such as those
     along V1 and V2 roads in the remote northern part of Nosy Be, and along the RIP118 outside
     Fort Dauphin. IG2P’s road improvements have also cut transportation time to urban areas for
     farmers by half, reduced the cost of acquiring non-local input, and improved market
     opportunities for their goods (particularly quickly-perishing items).

    Knowledge transfer in commercial agriculture. The most material impact came from
     IG2P’s partnership with CARE International to promote contract farming in the Amboasary
     district of Anosy region, which helped around 2,700 households across 7 communes in the
     district to increase production and commercialization of staple commodities such as maize
     and legumes, and raise their average income by $164 over the one year life of the scheme.

88. In all these areas, women represented a significant share of the beneficiaries. Around 50
percent of the project’s direct beneficiaries were women, notably in the Amboasary contract
farming scheme and in CARA’s TVET and BDS initiatives in Fort Dauphin. IG2Ps support to
basic services delivery also empowered women to self-organize and contribute to the effort in
their local communities (fokontany): in Fort Dauphin, for example, women formed associations
to collect household contributions for the management of solid waste pre-collection services.

(b) Institutional strengthening
89. The project financed the establishment of the EDBM, the country’s premier institution
for investment promotion and facilitation. The EDBM was a critical institutional underpinning
for the project’s efforts to crowd in private investment. Despite the central government’s neglect
of the EDBM during the political crisis years, IG2P continued to provide it with financial and
technical support and has helped nurture it to a position of financial autonomy.34

90. IG2P support to the Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin Municipalities also strengthened their
revenue generation capacity. The combination of equipment, software, and technical assistance
has led to noticeable improvements in the quality of public services as a result of progressive

34
   The “Loi de Finance Rectificative” was passed by the Parliament in August 2014, paving the way for a Decree 
(N°2014‐1822) adopted on December 5, 2014 that revised the EDBM’s statutes. EDBM will from now on report 
directly to the Presidency and collect and manage its own financial resources rather than relying on IG2P support. 
                                                        26
computerization and reengineering of key municipal procedures. As an example, it now takes
only 7 days to issue a construction permit in both regions compared to over 50 days in 2005. The
improved administrative capacity has underpinned the doubling of Nosy Be’s municipal
revenues since 2005, and a five-fold increase of revenues in Fort Dauphin.

(c) Other unintended outcomes
91. Inflation. During the peak of QMM’s construction of Ehoala port and its mining facility
(2006-2009), CPI inflation in Fort Dauphin soared as the demand for local inputs strained local
supply capacity. Although this inflation subsided by 2010-11, it negatively impacted perceptions
of the local benefits of QMM’s mining operations, particularly in the mining communes where
discontent over the adequacy of compensation provided by QMM was already high.

92. Countercyclical stabilization during the political crisis. Even with its severely limited
activities during the OP/BP 7.30 period, IG2P represented a key stabilizing force in Nosy Be and
Fort Dauphin at a time when the central government largely neglected these regions, helping to a
absorb unemployed workers into project activities, supporting the Municipalities in managing the
fallout from the crisis, and protecting against breaches in environmental and social safeguards.

3.6 Summary of Beneficiary and Stakeholders workshops

93. A series of roundtable discussions with project stakeholders and beneficiaries was
organized during the December 2014 ICR mission to solicit views on the project’s
achievements, shortcomings, and lessons learned. The groups consulted during the
roundtables included: recipients of business development services (BDS) in Fort Dauphin and
Nosy Be; representatives of private sector associations (e.g. Chambers of Commerce) in
Antananarivo and Fort Dauphin; private and public representatives from the tourism industry in
Nosy Be; staff of the Fort Dauphin municipal government; and farmers in Ifarantsa and Mandiso
villages along the RIP118 near Fort Dauphin. The issues discussed are documented in detail in
Annex 5. In summary, there was consistency across the groups on: the success of the project in
achieving its objectives; the importance of its decentralized design and its ability to reach and
affect communities; the appreciation of the World Bank’s rigor in supervising and guiding the
project and in building capacity; concerns about the sustainability of project achievements. This
last point is taken up in the following section. While some criticisms were inevitably raised, most
of them related less to the project’s failures and more to wishes that the project had done even
more given the perceived effectiveness of its interventions and delivery platform.

4. ASSESSMENT OF RISKS TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
Rating: Moderate

94. The risks to IG2P’s development outcomes not being maintained (summarized in
annex table A8) are rated moderate, on average, and relate primarily to the local financial
and institutional capacity to sustain the project’s achievements. Key vulnerabilities relate to:
(i) the maintenance of critical infrastructure (roads, ports, water and electricity supply); (ii) the
financial sustainability of institutions providing basic services; and (iii) the durability of human
capital improvements supported by the project (e.g. training for MSMEs and municipality staff).

95. Throughout the course of implementation, IG2P was able to develop partnerships and
institutional structures and mechanisms to mitigate some of these sustainability risks:
                                                 27
   Dedicated national funding for municipal infrastructure. In 2014, the central government
    designated Nosy Be’s Ring Road a national road, making its future maintenance eligible to
    be funded out of the National Road Fund. Local Nosy Be authorities also recently reached an
    agreement with the Ministry of Transportation which will now be in charge of the
    maintenance of the V1 and V2 roads in the northern part of the island.

   Participatory budgeting. By 2009, both Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin had adopted systems of
    participatory budgeting, whereby information about Municipality resources is made public
    and decisions for their use taken collectively with citizens through deliberative forums such
    as town halls. This has enhanced the community’s voice in local governance and increased
    the likelihood that funds used will be used towards shared priorities rather than vested
    interests. IG2P supported these participatory budgeting processes by providing training for
    meeting moderators and financing equipment and facilities for the community meetings.

   Delegation of some public services to private operators. In Nosy Be, management of the
    nearly all community water standpipes has been transferred to the private operator SERT-
    RANO, which has a sustainable fee structure in place. The ecotourist sites of Nosy Tanikely
    and Mont Passot are also now managed by financially independent non-profit associations. In
    Fort Dauphin, management of the landfill site has been contracted out to the private operator
    Nepenthes. Provision of water and electricity is also secure in the medium-term owing to
    JIRAMA’s partnership with QMM, who helps maintain water and electricity infrastructure.

   Autonomous management of JIRAMA’s Nosy Be office. A new management structure
    was finally approved by JIRAMA’s Board on December 15, 2014, granting the Nosy Be
    branch the autonomy to  undertake investments necessary to secure the island’s future power
    supply and set a tariff structure conducive to financial sustainability.

   Expanded financial resources for TVET institutions. CARA is currently finalizing its
    reincorporation as an NGO, which will open it up to new sources of funding. Meanwhile,
    CGA (which already has a membership fee structure in place), is actively expanding its
    member base and is close to or has already exceeded cost-recovery levels in Nosy Be, Fort
    Dauphin, and even Antsirabe. IG2P also helped these institutions conduct “training of
    trainers” to promote continuity and boost capacity to service future trainee demand.

96. Going forward, PIC2 will provide continued support in many of these areas to
promote sustainability, but project outcomes remain exposed to several other risks that
have yet to be adequately addressed:

   Regulatory barriers to growth of sectors supported by IG2P. The country’s rigid air
    access policy, coupled with the poor governance and performance of the de facto monopoly
    national carrier (Air Madagascar), remain the most pressing constraint to the growth of
    tourism and for export activity more generally. The weak legal framework for punishing
    electricity theft prevents meaningful reductions in JIRAMA’s commercial losses.

   Social tensions in mining communes. An effective and transparent mechanism for
    distributing and managing QMM’s royalty payments to the rural communes near its mining



                                               28
     facility was never fully implemented.35 This has left many commune residents with lingering
     resentment that they have not fairly benefited from the mining operations, as evidenced by
     their ongoing disputes with QMM about their appropriate level of income restoration. With
     mining royalties on the decline in light of QMM’s recent financial hardships and depressed
     mining activity, the risk that these frustrations escalate remains high.

    Renewed political instability. Madagascar has a history of recurring political crisis, and
     barely a year has passed since a democratically-elected government was restored. Tensions
     between the ruling and opposition parties remain elevated in the aftermath of the five-year
     political standoff—as evidenced by impeachment attempt against the new president in May
     2015—and the risk of future flare-ups is non-negligible. These could halt and potentially
     reverse the tentative recovery in foreign investment, undermine government commitment to
     maintain the infrastructure and institutions put in place during IG2P, and impede the
     implementation of PIC2.

5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1. Bank performance
Rating: Satisfactory

(a) Quality at entry
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

97. The section (2.1) on “Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry” provides
details demonstrating moderately satisfactory quality at entry, but key issues are
summarized here from an assessment perspective.

98. The Project’s objectives were aligned with high-priority issues in the CAS and PRSP
and the preparation process leveraged the input and collaboration from the highest levels
of government. The selection of growth pole sites was carefully aligned with the government’s
regional development priorities and supportive of its overarching agenda to promote broad-based
growth. The support of the Vice Prime Minister and the President, in particular, helped to foster
government-wide ownership of the project.

99. Technical design aspects were grounded in sound economic analysis, but the sheer
multiplicity of activities constrained the ability to perform full due diligence, and
inadequate consideration was given to sequencing. A thorough appraisal of all 87 project
subcomponents was simply not possible under the preparation timeline, and implementation
could have benefited from greater simplicity and focus in the design. Furthermore, there was
inadequate consideration of the potential benefits from strategically sequencing activities.

100. Given the complexity of the project, the appraisal team dedicated significant attention
to the risk assessment. In particular, the Bank team hedged the risk of delays in Rio Tinto’s
Ehoala Port investment by making IG2P disbursements for this component conditional on the
signing of the mining concession agreement between Rio Tinto and the GoM, and helped the

35
   The Ministry of Decentralization rejected a proposal back in 2009 for an independently managed community 
development fund (Comm Dev), and instead opted for a royalty distribution formula that allocated 30 percent to 
the four mining communes (Ampasy Nahampoina, Mahatalaky, Mandromodromotra and Soanierana). 
                                                       29
GoM navigate these complex negotiations. The project’s numerous social and environmental
safeguards issues were also anticipated in great detail and mitigating measures proposed.
Fiduciary aspects were well prepared, based on thorough assessments of procurement and
financial management capabilities, and capacity building arrangements and interventions were
put into place to ensure readiness for implementation.

101. The main weaknesses at entry related to the results chain and M&E systems. As
discussed in detail in section 2.3, although the logic behind the PDO and the integrated approach
were clear, the causal chain between specific activities and outcomes could have been better
specified. The selected results indicators were also not formulated as precisely as they could
have been, and baseline values and arrangements for future data collection were missing.
Furthermore, mechanisms for private sector feedback about the impact of the project’s
interventions were not properly institutionalized.

(b) Quality of supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

102. The Bank’s supervision was strongly focused on the project’s development impact.
Aide memoires and internal reporting kept the development outcomes in the forefront, and
delays or weaknesses in implementation were proactively addressed, and the team was candid in
adjusting ISR ratings accordingly. The project also benefited greatly from the fact that the first
TTL after project effectiveness was based in Antananarivo for most of the time, enabling close
interaction between the World Bank team and the PIU.

103. Given the design weaknesses in the initial M&E framework, the supervision team also
usually included an M&E expert to support the PIU in improving outcome indicators and the
quality of source data. This M&E support was also essential in reformulating key results
indicators and updating their targets as part of project’s second level one restructuring in 2012.

104. The Bank team proved proactive and resilient in the face of adverse political and
economic developments. The first project restructuring and additional financing credit were
initiatives by the supervision team to compensate for funding shortfalls and adjust component
activities to accommodate changing national and local priorities. The mid-term review was also
used as an opportunity to implement important mid-course corrections. During the OP/BP 7.30
period when intensity of supervision had to be reduced, the Bank team negotiated an exception to
the policy to keep the project disbursing for safeguards-related activities. This helped maintain
the core functions of the PIU, preserve continuity in implementation, and enable the project to
resume disbursing quickly once OP/BP 7.30 was lifted in 2011.

105. Supervision of fiduciary and safeguards aspects was also strong. Procurement missions
and reviews were carried out as scheduled and their findings reflected in the overall supervision
reporting. The Bank team closely supervised environmental safeguards aspects of the Project,
provided detailed reports and recommendations in the Aide Memoires, and adjusted the ISR
ratings to reflect compliance performance.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank performance
Rating: Satisfactory


                                               30
106. The rating is justified on the basis of the Bank’s strong development outcome focus
and adaptability in a difficult political and economic environment. The Project was
technically well-prepared and the supervision team reacted swiftly to changing conditions. The
initially under-designed M&E framework was improved considerably during the course of
implementation and the PDO sharpened to promote stronger linkages to the results indicators.

5.2 Borrower performance

(a) Government performance
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

107. While five years of political crisis and relative neglect of IG2P by central authorities
would suggest otherwise, overall government ownership was actually reasonably strong
throughout most of the project. The GoM was closely involved in project preparation and
repeatedly supported the PIU during implementation when issues or problems arose and
intervention from higher authorities was needed to get things moving. Meanwhile, the Steering
Committee effectively facilitated coordination between key Ministries (including the President)
and involved local authorities and private sector representatives in key strategic decisions.
During the 2009-2014 crisis period, when central government focus on IG2P waned and
responsibility for high-level “steering” shifted to regional development committees, ownership
was arguably even strengthened due to the greater proximity to day-to-day implementation.

108. Political interference in project activities was a recurring problem, however, as was
the high rate of politically-motivated local government staff turnover. Despite a strong
commitment to IG2P’s overall strategic vision and development objectives, central and local
authorities repeatedly struggled in adhering to the scope of activities laid out in the DCA. The
popularity and visibility of IG2P in the regional poles tempted central and local officials to use it
as a political tool, promising interventions or public works that were either different or above and
beyond what was agreed at the time of project approval. The frequent reshuffling of local
officials throughout the project only served to reinforce this tendency.

109. Although legal covenants were met for the most part, follow-through on key
regulatory reforms fell short of what was necessary to maximize project effectiveness. This
includes the resistance to implementing the Open Skies Policy after having adopted it as one of
the project’s legal covenants in 2006, and the delays in adopting an autonomous management
framework for JIRAMA’s regional offices (the legal covenant was not met until 2014).

110. Finally, the government failed to deliver on its agreed financial contribution to IG2P.
The original financing plan called for a $39 million government contribution to cover taxes and
import duties related to project procurements. Shortly after project effectiveness, however, it
became clear the GoM would be unable to provide this amount on account of budget difficulties
and reallocation of expenditures to other national priorities. This financing shortfall was a key
reason for project’s first level one restructuring and the provision of additional financing.

111. This funding shortfall, coupled with the insufficient enabling regulatory reforms,
ultimately justify a moderately unsatisfactory rating of the government’s performance despite
its strong overall ownership of the project and productive engagement at the local level.

(b) Implementing agency performance
                                                 31
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

112. The PIU was deeply committed to the achievement of the project development
objectives and motivated to work hard and efficiently. Both the Head of the PIU and the
regional pole directors remained in their positions for the full 9 years of the project. Even after
around half of the technical and administrative staff was laid off during the OP/BP 7.30 period
due to budget cuts, many eventually returned to their roles, underlining their long-term
commitment to the project and their determination to see it through to the end.

113. On a technical and managerial level, the PIU displayed strong competence and
adaptability, helping the project to earn the World Bank regional excellence award in
August 2007. Once the project was underway, the PIU quickly realized the complexity of
coordinating stakeholders and contracted works in the regional poles, and expanded its local staff
to more effectively manage implementation. It also resisted political interference that was
counterproductive to project objectives. On the fiduciary front, the project accounts were kept in
good order and financial reports were generally submitted on time and in accordance with Bank
standards. Compliance with environmental and social safeguards was also assured through
dedicated regional staff. Perhaps the only notable criticism relates to the lack of M&E experience
and capacity in the early stages of the project, leaving the PIU to rely primarily on Bank M&E
support until a local expert was hired in 2011 when post-OP 7.30 implementation resumed.

114. The PIU also served as a crucial stabilizing entity for the project during the crisis.
Since the Bank could not have a formal relationship with central government during the OP/BP
7.30 period, the PIU was essential in maintaining project engagement at the local level. It also
pro-actively took advantage of the lull in activity to explore new approaches towards achieving
project outcomes (by conducting various feasibility studies), engage in retrospective impact
evaluation, and improve strategies for implementation going forward.

115. The high visibility of IG2P and its success in mobilizing partnerships also owe in large
part to the PIU’s local outreach efforts. The PIU fostered an active dialogue with project
stakeholders and involved and leveraged local institutions and communities in project
implementation. It also ran various promotional campaigns to raise awareness of the project and
encourage potential beneficiaries to take advantage of the project’s training programs and other
services. By the end of implementation, IG2P had a larger-than-life presence in Nosy Be and
Fort Dauphin, with the PIU regional delegates becoming key public figures.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

116. This rating is justified on the basis of the shortcomings in government performance,
which were counterbalanced by the exceptional performance of the PIU. As per Operations
Policy and Country Service (OPCS) guidelines, overall borrower performance is rated on the
basis of the moderately unsatisfactory rating of government performance, the highly satisfactory
rating of Implementing Agency (PIU) performance, and the satisfactory outcomes of the Project.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

Project Design

                                                32
117. A flexible and modular design is critical for complex, multi-sectoral projects where
activities are being undertaken in an integrated manner. The complexity of IG2P arose not
only from the multi-dimensionality and multiplicity of its interventions, but also from its reliance
on the private sector to provide key complementary infrastructure links, especially in Fort
Dauphin and Antananarivo-Antsirabe. In this case, the project design must remain flexible to
potential delays in specific components, changing implementation realities, and to the response
of private sector supply and demand. It should allow for subcomponents to be removed or
amended without compromising the overall project framework and the causal chain of activities.

118. Concentrating investments in spatially-limited areas with lean governance structures
can help mitigate the risks associated with a complex design, weak implementation
capacity, and the thin spreading of resources. Both Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin had small
populations of around 60,000 at the start of the project and simple one-tier municipal governance
structures, making coordination of stakeholders and project activities relatively more
manageable. IG2P’s interventions also represented the largest inflow of investments these
regions had ever experienced, giving the project high visibility among local residents and helping
to mobilize public support and promote ownership. In determining the appropriate complexity of
project design (i.e. number of activities) and the scale of investments in a regional growth pole,
the size of the local economy and number of stakeholders should therefore be key considerations.

119. The balance between hard and soft infrastructure investments in regional growth
poles has important political economy implications. IG2P’s interventions in both Nosy Be and
Fort Dauphin were high in hard infrastructure content, helping to produce visible outputs early
on and sustain local support for the project during the lengthy political crisis, when its activities
were curtailed and its impacts no longer so easily detectable. This stands in contrast to the
Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole, which was anchored exclusively in “soft infrastructure”
investments (e.g. training, feasibility studies, etc.), and struggled to retain support once political
turmoil ensued and essential complementary private investments failed to materialize. Some
minimum threshold of hard infrastructure content could therefore be considered as a means of
helping growth poles gain political and social traction during the initial stages of implementation.

120. Whether or not a growth pole is anchored around a single large investment or
investor also materially shapes its risk structure. IG2P served as a case study of two growth
pole models, one in Fort Dauphin anchored around a single major investor (Rio Tinto), and
another in Nosy Be with a broader set of private sector stakeholders and greater risk sharing. The
first model benefits from leveraging the resources of an established anchor investor but also
exposes it to greater sustainability risk if this investor experiences hardships (as has proven to be
the case with Rio Tinto). In the second model, the broader distribution of activity among firms—
as in Nosy Be’s multi-faceted tourism economy (hotels, restaurants, ecotourist parks)—gives the
private sector potentially more resilience, and also spreads out the burden of maintaining the
shared infrastructure put in place by the project. This trade-off must be carefully considered in
project design to determine which growth pole model is warranted for the specific circumstances.

Project implementation

121. Although an integrated growth poles approach relies on simultaneous interventions,
effectiveness can suffer if components are not properly sequenced. The project initially
encountered difficulties implementing its infrastructure activities in a simultaneous and bundled

                                                 33
manner, and could have benefited from more strategic sequencing to prioritize those construction
works with greater implementation “readiness.” Improper sequencing also diminished the
effectiveness of IG2P’s Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme (PCGS), which had limited uptake in
Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin36 because it was launched well before the rollout of key TVET and
entrepreneurship development programs in these regions and before local systems for land titling
had been strengthened (meaning a limited the supply of eligible loan collateral). The implied
lesson is that the greater the number of project activities, the greater the need to consider
strategic sequencing and prioritization to maximize effectiveness.

122. A weak initial M&E framework can constrain the ability to make important mid-
course corrections. Due to its poorly-formulated outcome indicators and missing baseline
values at the outset, IG2P struggled to gauge the economic impacts of its interventions during the
first few years of implementation, limiting the ability to assess the effectiveness of specific
components and re-allocate project resources accordingly. This illustrates an important pitfall of
treating M&E as a secondary project design priority and waiting to develop it during the course
of implementation, and highlights the potential benefits of designing ex-ante impact evaluation
mechanisms (if a project budget permits) rather than IG2P’s ex-post approach.

123. The private sector’s ability to leverage infrastructure platforms for growth can be
undermined by missing or incomplete supporting policy reforms. The vested interests and
chronic mismanagement of SOEs such as Air Madagascar and JIRAMA continue to impede
enabling reforms for the tourism sector (i.e. the full implementation of an open air access policy)
and the provision of reliable and affordable public utilities to the population. These examples
demonstrate that when infrastructure and regulatory and/or legal issues are both binding business
environment constraints, policy reforms need to be implemented in parallel or prior to the
provision of infrastructure to maximize the private sector’s ability to leverage these investments.
This is also a caution against relying too heavily on one large project to achieve a much broader
private sector development agenda, which must be supported both by the government and
potentially by other Bank projects targeting specific policy issues and/or sectors.

Partnerships and collaboration

124. Collaborative and multi-sector Bank projects can be useful in development contexts
where there are multi-dimensional constraints, provided there is a uniform standard of
quality in project design and implementation among the different participating units. IG2P
was one of the Bank’s earliest attempts at truly multi-sector package of interventions within one
project, each component having a technical lead from a different sector department. It also
represented one of the first collaborations with both the investment and advisory services sides of
IFC, giving rise to the PCGS risk-sharing facility that has since been replicated in many other
countries. While this collaborative model allowed the project to benefit from the best technical
expertise in each area (e.g. roads, ports, business training services, etc.)—in many ways
foreshadowing the Global Practice model the Bank has now adopted—it inevitably created
coordination and quality-control difficulties. Not every component was designed and executed to
the same standard, emphasizing the need for systems to ensure uniform quality if this
engagement model is to be used on a more regular basis going forward.



36
      Around 90 percent of borrowers in the scheme were from the Antananarivo‐Antsirabe region. 
                                                         34
125. PPPs can leverage modest public resources not only to bridge infrastructure gaps but
also to improve public services and achieve broader social objectives. The PPP with Rio
Tinto began as a vehicle to crowd in Rio Tinto’s mining investment and provide a new multi-use
port for Fort Dauphin. Over time, however, the partnership evolved to mobilize private
investment towards the improvement of public services (water, electricity, and sanitation) and
human capital (TVET institutions). Through this, IG2P was able to create shared infrastructure
and achieve increases in the quality and coverage of basic services beyond what the project’s
initial budget envelope would have allowed.

126. Partnership-driven implementation can also enhance sustainability by promoting
shared responsibility for project outcomes. From as early as the design stage, IG2P had a
focus on mobilizing private participation, not only to expand the scale of possible investments,
but also to protect against the burden of sustainability falling exclusively on the governments of
the regional poles. The integrated design of the project was itself a catalyst for this partnership-
building effort. It forced the Bank team and the PIU to touch on multiple dimensions of the
business environment, build relationships at different levels of government, and promote
linkages across implementing entities and institutions. Towards the end, these efforts enabled the
project to transfer or share responsibility for the maintenance of infrastructure, service delivery
systems and institutions that it helped to finance. This notion of fostering sustainability through
partnerships and cross-institutional linkages is a critical lesson for all development projects.

Government ownership and capacity

127. In the absence of stability, leadership and ownership at the central government level,
project implementation can still be effective if engagement at local government levels is
high and there is strong project management. Despite prolonged political crisis within the
central government, the Project was able to maintain focus and implementation momentum
through regional steering committees and a strong PIU. The local PIU teams were especially
crucial: given the frequent turnover in local government leadership and staff, they served as the
institutional memory of the project and the steward of its development goals. This suggests that,
for agglomeration-oriented investment projects with geographic specificity, local rather central
government ownership is the more relevant ingredient for effective implementation, and even
more so when there is institutional instability and shifting priorities at the central level.

128. Sufficient institutional support and governance capacity building should be integrated
into growth poles projects to promote their durability and replicability. IG2P had
subcomponents in each regional pole dedicated to strengthening the capacity of the local
governments, although much of this was ultimately undermined by the frequent political
turnover in municipal staff and the nationwide political crisis. Growth pole projects should
maintain a strong emphasis on building the longer-term capacity of government to carry out such
multi-sectoral initiatives on its own instead of relying on the Bank to provide this coordination
role. Although PIC2 was justified on the basis of helping the GoM preserve and build on the
development impacts of IG2P in the aftermath of a disruptive political crisis, any successor
growth pole projects should ideally be designed and managed independently by the government.

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCY

See Annex 8 for full set of Borrower’s comments.

                                                35
ANNEX 1: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

Table A1: Project costs by component (USD million)

                                                               Estimate at first      Estimate at 
                                             Appraisal       restructuring, incl.       second                 Percentage of 
              Component                                                                               Actual
                                          estimate (2005)   additional financing     restructuring               appraisal
                                                                    (2008)               (2012)
Component A: Strengthening the business environment
 A1 Improving access to finance                39.5                 29.3                 26.3          26.3        66%
 A2 MSME capacity building and                  4.4                  3.7                  2.7          4.0         92%
     Matching Grant Scheme
 A3 Country‐wide   tourism                      3.1                  3.2                  1.4          1.9         62%
     development initiatives
 A4 Improving the  business                     7.7                 14.1                 10.0          8.6         112%
     environment
Subtotal Component A                           54.7                 50.3                 40.5          40.8        75%
Component B: Export led growth in Antananarivo‐Antsirabe
 B1 Enhancing EPZ/manufacturing                 1.9                  6.2                  3.2          3.2         169%
     sector competitiveness
 B2 Supporting the  development of              3.2                  0.3                  0.2          0.2          6%
     an ICT Business Park
 B3 Support to Antananarivo and                 2.5                  2.5                  0.5          0.5         18%
     Antsirabe  municipalities
Subtotal Component B                            7.5                  9.0                  3.8          3.8         51%
Component C: Tourism led growth in Nosy Be
 C1 Infrastructure  upgrading                  52.3                 73.1                 61.0          62.5        120%

 C2 Social  and Sanitary Infrastructure         0.6                  1.5                 10.4          10.5       1762%

 C3 Local  Institutions Strengthening           1.9                  3.3                  2.0          1.8         94%
Subtotal Component C                           54.8                 77.9                 73.5          74.8        137%
Component D: Mining and Tourism led growth in Fort Dauphin
 D1 Infrastructure  Upgrading                  161.7                209.1                296.9        294.1        182%

 D2 Social  and Sanitary Infrastructure         1.8                  1.0                  4.5          3.8         209%

 D3 Local  Institutions Strengthening           2.6                  5.0                  3.8          2.9         113%
Subtotal Component D                           166.2                215.1                305.3        300.9        181%
Component E: Program and Project Implementation, Evaluation and Monitoring
 E1 Support to project monitoring and          13.1                  1.1                  1.2          2.2         17%
    evaluation 
 E2 Support to project management               2.0                  9.2                  7.6          7.6         380%
    and training
 E3 Technical  assistance  for project          4.0                  2.1                  3.4          1.1         29%
    management & monitoring
 E4 Operating expenses for project              2.0                  7.4                  7.3          10.2        508%
    management (incl. safeguards)
 E5 Reimbursing PPF                             0.0                  2.3                  2.3          2.3          —
Subtotal Component E                           21.1                 22.0                 21.8          23.5        111%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            304.3                374.4                444.9        443.8        146%



                                                              36
Table A2: Project financing by source

                                                          Estimate  at first 
                               Appraisal estimate       restructuring, incl.  Estimate at second 
            Financing source                                                                        Actual
                                     (2005)            additional financing  restructuring (2012)
                                                              (2008) 
Borrower                              39.0                     0.4                   0.4             0.4
IDA                                   129.8                   169.8                 167.5           166.0
IFC                                   16.1                    10.0                   7.7             7.7
Other donors                          32.4                     0.0                   0.0             1.0
Private  sector                       66.4                    169.2                 269.2           268.7
Unidentified                          20.6                    24.9                   0.0             0.0
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING               304.3                   374.4                 444.9           443.8




                                                      37
Table A3: Project financing by component (actual)


                                                                               Private     Other 
                    Component                         GoM     IDA       IFC                         TOTAL
                                                                               sector      Donors


Component A: Strengthening the business environment
 A1 Improving access to finance                       0.0     5.0       7.7     13.5        0.0     26.3
 A2 MSME capacity building and Matching Grant         0.0     2.7       0.0      1.4        0.0      4.0
    Scheme
 A3 Country‐ wide   tourism development               0.0     1.8       0.0      0.0        0.1      1.9
    initiatives
 A4 Improving the  business environment               0.0     8.6       0.0      0.0        0.0      8.6
Subtotal Component A                                  0.0     18.2      7.7     14.9        0.1     40.8
Component B: Export led growth in Antananarivo‐ Antsirabe
 B1 Enhancing EPZ/manufacturing sector                0.0     0.2       0.0      3.0        0.0      3.2
      competitiveness
 B2 Supporting the  development of  an ICT            0.0     0.2       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.2
      Business Park
 B3 Support to Antananarivo and Antsirabe             0.0     0.5       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.5
      municipalities
Subtotal Component B                                  0.0     0.8       0.0      3.0        0.0      3.8
Component C: Tourism led growth in Nosy Be
 C1 Infrastructure  upgrading                         0.0     40.7      0.0     20.8        1.0     62.5
 C2 Social  and Sanitary Infrastructure               0.0     10.4      0.0      0.1        0.0     10.5
 C3 Local  Institutions Strengthening                 0.0     1.8       0.0      0.0        0.0      1.8
Subtotal Component C                                  0.0     52.9      0.0     20.9        1.0     74.8
Component D: Mining and Tourism led growth in Fort Dauphin
 D1 Infrastructure  Upgrading                         0.0     69.1      0.0     225.0       0.0     294.1
 D2 Social  and Sanitary Infrastructure               0.0     3.8       0.0      0.0        0.0      3.8
 D3 Local  Institutions Strengthening                 0.0     2.9       0.0      0.0        0.0      2.9
Subtotal Component D                                  0.0     75.9      0.0     225.0       0.0     300.9
Component E: Program and Project Implementation, Evaluation and Monitoring
 E1 Support to project monitoring and evaluation      0.0     2.2       0.0      0.0        0.0      2.2
 E2 Support to project management and training        0.0     7.7       0.0      0.0        0.0      7.6

 E3 Technical  assistance  for project management     0.0     1.1       0.0      0.0        0.0      1.1
    & monitoring
 E4 Operating expenses for project management         0.0     5.3       0.0      4.9        0.0     10.2
    (incl. safeguards)
 E5 Reimbursing PPF                                   0.5     1.9       0.0      0.0        0.0      2.3
Subtotal Component E                                  0.4     18.2      0.0      4.9        0.0     23.5
TOTAL PROJECT FINANCING                               0.4    166.0      7.7     268.7       1.0     443.8



                                                      38
ANNEX 2: OUTPUTS AND OUTCOMES BY COMPONENT

Over the life of the project, many of subcomponents were either added, dropped or modified as
the management team sought to adjust the project design to reflect evolving political and
economic priorities, simplify a complex undertaking, and incorporate new development tools
that were perceived as effective means to achieve the objectives. Table A4 below summarizes
these changes.

                                Table A4: Revisions to Project Components

Original components                 First project restructuring +            Second project restructuring
                                    additional financing (2007-08)           (2012)

A: STRENGTHENING THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

A1. Access to finance                                                        Item (i) dropped
(i) Leasing/factoring
(ii) Partial credit guarantee
          scheme
A2. MSME capacity building          Item (i) expanded to include             Support for developing agribusiness
                                    provision of business development        value chains added
(i) Technical and vocational
                                    services (BDS)
    training (TVET)
(ii) Matching grants
A3. Tourism development             Item (i) expanded to include             Support for reserve lands (RFTs)
initiatives                         provision of goods                       under item (i) dropped
(i) TA for design and
                                    Recipient of TA in item (iii) changed    Support added under item (ii) for
    implementation of tourism
                                    from National Institute for Hotel and    analytical work on air access
    plans and strategies
                                    Tourism Training (NIHTT) to
(ii) Tourism promotion              Ministry of Tourism and Transport
                                    and Ministry of Education
(iii) TA and training for NIHTT

A4. Improving the business          Funding for item (ii) directed
environment                         exclusively to newly-created EDBM
(i) Development of leasing
    registry
(ii) Support to investment
     promotion agencies
(iii) Support for policy and
      regulatory reforms
(iv) Support to JIRAMA
B: EXPORT-LED GROWTH IN ANTANANARIVO-ANTSIRABE
B1.Enhancing                        Item (iii) amended to refer explicitly   Entire subcomponent dropped
EPZ/manufacturing                   to use of public-private partnerships
competitiveness
(i) TA to EPZ authorities

                                                        39
(ii) Enterprise skills development
(iii) Development of industrial
      zones
B2. Development of ICT                                                           Entire subcomponent dropped
business park in Antanetibe
B3. Support to Antananarivo             Support for Antananarivo dropped         Entire subcomponent dropped
and Antsirabe municipalities            and support for Vakinankaratra
                                        region added
(i) Administrative capacity
    building
(ii) Building rehabilitation and
     equipment
C: TOURISM-LED GROWTH IN NOSY BE
C1. Infrastructure upgrading            Item (iii) broadened to include          Comprehensive upgrading of ports
                                        support for renewable energy             under item (i) scaled back to
(i) Nosy Be ports
                                                                                 rehabilitation and modest expansion
(ii) Urban and feeder roads             Provisions of works for item (iv)
                                        dropped and support limited to TA        Support under item (iv) dropped
(iii) Electricity system
                                        only
(iv) Telecommunications network
C2. Social and sanitary                 Item (iii) expanded to include           Support for item (iii) dropped due to
infrastructure                          support for malaria eradication          containment of malaria outbreak and
                                        program                                  lack of government support for
(i)    Water and sewerage system
                                                                                 management and operation of the
(ii)   Solid waste management                                                    hospital
(iii) Hospital upgrading
C3. Support to Nosy Be                  Support expanded to broader Diana        Support for the Centre de Gestion
Municipality                            region                                   Agréé (CGA) and private business
                                                                                 associations added
(i)    Development of tourism and
       urban master plans
(ii)   Administrative capacity
       building
(iii) Building rehabilitation and
      equipment
D: MINING AND TOURISM-LED GROWTH IN TAOLAGNARO (FORT DAUPHIN)
D1. Infrastructure upgrading            Support for rehabilitation of old port   TA for development of Ehoala Park
                                        under item (i) dropped                   (adjacent to Ehoala Port) added
(i)    Construction of new Ehoala
                                                                                 under item (i)
       Port and rehabilitation of old
                                        Provisions of works for item (iv)
       port
                                        dropped and support limited to TA        Support under item (iv) dropped
(ii)   Urban and rural roads            only
                                                                                 Upgrading of roads to select tourism
(iii) Electricity system
                                                                                 sites under item (ii) dropped given
(iv) Telecommunications                                                          the difficulties in addressing the
     network                                                                     issues of land access.


D2. Social and sanitary                                                          Support for further hospital
infrastructure                                                                   rehabilitation under item (iii)
                                                                                 dropped due to lack of government
                                                            40
                                                                        support for management and
(i)    Water and sewerage
                                                                        operation of the hospital
(ii)   Solid waste management
(iii) Hospital upgrading
D3. Support to Fort Dauphin         Support expanded to broader Anosy   Added: support to the Centre de
Municipality                        region                              Gestion Agréé (CGA),
                                                                        Centred’Affaire Régional d’Anosy
(i)    Development of tourism and
                                                                        (CARA) and private business
       urban master plans
                                                                        associations; and
(ii)   Administrative capacity
       building                                                         Added: support for environmental
                                                                        protection activities including coastal
(iii) Building rehabilitation and
                                                                        erosion mitigation and deforestation.
      equipment

E: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, EVALUATION AND MONITORING
                                                                   Added: firm-level survey for
(i) TA, training, and goods and Support under item (i) expanded to
                                                                   employment and enterprise growth
    works for fiduciary and M&E include communications activities
                                                                   impact assessments under item (i)
    activities
(ii) Support for regional                                               Item (ii) amended to explicitly
     development plans and                                              include protection and development
     environmental and social                                           of environmental assets such as Nosy
     activities                                                         Tanikely, Lake Amparihibe, Mont
                                                                        Passot and Lokobe National Park.


In light of these various changes to project components, the description below of project outputs
and outcomes is not exhaustive, but meant to capture the key achievements under each
component.

Component A: Strengthening the Business Environment

A1. Access to Finance

1.    Partial credit guarantee scheme (PCGS). Between the launch of the IDA-IFC sponsored
PCGS in June 2006 and the peak of its ramp-up period in May 2008, the two participating banks
(BNI-Madagascar and BFV-Société General) extended 1206 loans to MSMEs totaling $30.3
million. This significantly expanded MSMEs access to credit—the MSME portfolio of the two
banks grew from 2 percent of total loans to 10 percent during the PCGS period—and helped to
lower MSMEs cost of borrowing. Training provided to around 450 commercial bank staff also
helped to streamline procedures for MSME lending and reduce the time taken to process loans.
However, the regional distribution of beneficiaries was ultimately highly asymmetric, with
nearly 90 percent of MSME borrowers located in the Antananarivo-Antsirabe region. The low
uptake in Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin related primarily to absence of reliable land titles at the
time in these two regions, resulting in the rejection of numerous loan applications. After the
outbreak of the crisis in early 2009 and the ensuing economic downturn, performance of the
loans originated through the PCGS deteriorated and default rates increased sharply. The PCGS
was terminated in 2009.

A2. MSME capacity building

                                                     41
2.    Technical and vocation training (TVET). With the support of local governments and
through various private partnerships with QMM, NGOs and other foundations, IG2P helped
establishe several TVET institutions targeting a variety of sectors and disciplines (tourism,
agribusiness, entrepreneurship, etc), including the Anosy Vocational Training Center in Fort
Dauphin (CFPTA), the tourism training school in Nosy Be (CFTH), CARA, and CGA. Since the
start of the project, over 5200 individuals and MSMEs have received subsidized business
development services (BDS) through these institutions and other forms of organized training.
Towards the end of the project implementation period, some of these institutions also engaged in
training of trainers to promote continuity and sustainability of their programs in the aftermath of
IG2P support.

3.    Matching grants scheme (PARC). PARC was initially launched in June 2008 and ran for
around a year before being suspended due to the political crisis, supporting 65 projects and
disbursing $430,000 in grants during this period. It was restarted in 2012 and since then has
approved $920,000 in new grants for 49 projects (disbursing $850,000 by end-2014), mostly in
agricultural and tourism activities, and mobilized $1.36 million in co-investment by beneficiaries
(well above a 1:1 ratio). It is ending on particularly high note by supporting two highly-promising
investment projects in Fort Dauphin that are close to materializing: (1) BOVIMA, an $8-11
million export-oriented abattoir project that would directly employ an estimated 5,000 people
(many living in extreme poverty) and; (2) a fruit processing plant by a domestic investor. The
recently-completed external evaluation of PARC estimates that the activities supported by the
program’s grants have helped to train 576 people in Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin, and contributed
to the creation of 161 permanent jobs and an annual revenue growth for recipients of 33 percent
between 2012 and 2013. However, as is generally the case with many matching grant programs,
beneficiaries complained about the burdensome documentation requirements of the scheme and
the heavy up-front cash flow requirements associated with having to complete agreed activities
before receiving PARC disbursements. This structure was seen as favoring the already well-
established businesses rather than the poorer liquidity-strapped small entrepreneurs and MSMEs.
As a tool for relieving financial constraints to MSMEs, it was therefore relatively less effective,
although it did ultimately support the establishment of microfinance institutions as CECAM and
MICROCRED in Fort Dauphin, and SIPEM and MICROCRED Nosy Be, with the latter two
helping 661 beneficiaries to access new bank credit services with an outstanding balance of $1.2
million at end of October 2014. Furthermore, since the PARC only engaged with formal
businesses, it also encouraged firms to formalize themselves to gain eligibility.

4.    Development of select value chains. In its final two years, IG2P financed the compilation
of an agricultural output database and value chain analysis (including feasibility and market
studies) for several commodities in the Anosy region—cassava, maize, pink peppercorn, lychee
and other fruits—to help farmers and potential investors identify agribusiness opportunities
along the targeted roads RIP 118, RIP 107 and RN12. This has led to several expressions of
interest by private operators to set up processing plants (notably in lychee) in the region and
spurred the launch of new training programs for farmers. The most material impact came from
IG2P’s partnership with CARE International to promote contract farming in the Amboasary
district of Anosy. Through its provision of agricultural training, equipment, seeds, and irrigation
systems, as well as assistance in linking farmers to markets and negotiating contract prices, the
scheme has helped around 2,700 households across 7 communes in the district to increase
production of staple commodities such as maize and legumes by 2,057 tons and to
commercialize 1,004 tons. These increases in agricultural productivity and market sales have
                                                42
boosted the average income of households in these communes by $164 over the one-year life of
the scheme.

A3. Tourism development initiatives

5.    Maritime and air access. Although an Open Skies Policy was legally adopted very early
in the project (2006), it was never really implemented in practice, and poor air access continues
to be the most pressing constraint to tourism development. The national carrier, Air Madagascar,
remains the de facto monopoly operator in the domestic market, and offers international
passengers limited domestic connectivity. Lack of punctuality and inconsistent flight schedules
negatively affect the willingness of foreign tour operators to bring tourists to the regions. In the
later stages of implementation (2013-14), IG2P helped to finance a comprehensive study on air
access at the national and regional levels, which has been presented at several workshops
throughout the country, generated extensive debate, and should provide the GoM with the
necessary data, benchmarks and policy advice to take an informed decision on the future of the
market. The discussions around the study have also led to the inclusion of a comprehensive air
transport component in PIC2 given the urgency of reforming the country’s air access policy.
However, it remains to be seen whether the GoM is ready to take drastic action to improve
governance of the struggling national airline.

6.    Tourism promotion. While the project supported the development of regional tourism
strategies and plans, most tourism representatives from the private sector (and the National
Tourism Board) argued that, in retrospect, the higher priority should have been the design and
implementation of an integrated national tourism strategy. This could have aimed to market
Madagascar as a circuit-based destination, both through multi-destination national packages or a
“Vanilla Islands” package incorporating visits to the neighboring islands of Seychelles,
Comoros, Réunion, and Mauritius. From a promotional perspective, IG2P nevertheless
succeeded in signing some MOUs with the regional tourism councils (ORTs) in Fort Dauphin
and Nosy Be as well as with ONTM, enabling implementation of targeted promotion and
training activities. Some completed activities include: (i) preparation of brochures, sales manuals
and participation in regional and international shows/tourism events; (ii) training of 12 trainers
and 162 professionals in hotel and tourism, 88 cooks and 487 boat captains; and (iii) upgrading
of tourism sites including the Musée Flacourt in Fort Dauphin and Mont Passot and Lokobe
National Park in Nosy Be. In its early years, the project also facilitated the listing of Nosy Be and
Fort Dauphin’s hotels on the Worldhotel.link (WHL) online reservation portal. Although
repeated technical programs were encountered with WHL, the experience helped many hotels
transition to more mainstream booking platforms such as TripAdvisor and Hotels.com.

A4. Improving the business environment

7.     Creation of Economic Development Board of Madagascar (EDBM). The EDBM was
established through IG2P support in 2007 as the premier agency for investment promotion and
facilitation in Madagascar and to take over the functions of GUIDE, the previous one-stop shop
for business registration. In its role as a one-stop shop, the EDBM was instrumental in
simplifying and expediting business registration procedures, particularly in Nosy Be and Fort
Dauphin, where the establishment of regional EDBM offices allowed local business access to
registration services that were previously only available in Antananarivo. By the end of the
project, the days required to start a business had been reduced from 21 to 8 in the capital, and

                                                 43
from over 30 days to 7 days in the regions. However, recurrent delays in staffing the EDBM and
setting its management team and governance framework, coupled with its loss of project funding
during the political crisis period, prevented it from executing its investment promotion and
facilitation functions in a dedicated and coherent manner. The EDBM also expanded its mandate
in 2013 to include conducting economic intelligence and leading the country’s public-private
partnerships dialogue, which further overstretched its administrative capacity.

Component B: Export-led growth in Antananarivo-Antsirabe (cancelled in 2012)

8.    While some planned activities under this component were completed, adverse political
and economic developments and weak private sector support constrained any significant
progress in the Antananarivo-Antsirabe growth pole. Given the project’s relatively minor
financial contribution to this pole (around 4 percent of total IG2P financing) and the
predominantly “soft” infrastructure activities, Antananarivo-Antsirabe relied on the private
sector for complementary “hard” investments to realize capital-intensive initiatives such as the
ICT Business Park. With the outbreak of the political and economic crisis in 2009, however,
whatever tentative private investment interest that existed during the first few years of
implementation quickly disappeared, as did the support of many public donors. Madagascar’s
eligibility as a beneficiary of U.S. trade preferences offered in the African Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA) was also terminated in 2010 as a result, undermining the
competitiveness of the textile industry and leading to mass layoffs and firm closures in the
Antananarivo-Antsirabe region. Against this backdrop, support for component activities
effectively ceased in 2010, but the pole was not officially dropped until the 2012 restructuring.

B1. Enhance EPZ/manufacturing competitiveness

9.    Enterprise-based skills development. The project successfully partnered with local
institutions such as the ORANGE business school and the University of Athénée Saint Joseph in
Antsirabe to deliver supervisory and middle management training for employees in the garments
industry and students pursuing degrees in textile engineering and IT. However, in light of
increasing difficulties facing the manufacturing the industry due to the rapid appreciation of the
Ariary during that period and a delay in SADC accession by Madagascar (preventing duty free
access to the South African market), these human capital improvements could do little in the
short term to offset the downward trend in Madagascar’s export competitiveness.

10. Agro techno-pole. While the feasibility study for the agro techno-pole (agricultural
produce processing/agro-testing/calibration facility) was completed in 2008 and a facility design
and investment plan proposed, the contract bidding process received only two offers and a
generally lukewarm reception from private investors. There was no attempt to re-launch the
tender once the crisis broke out.

B2. ICT Business Park Development

11. As was the case with the agro techno-pole, the feasibility study for the ICT Business Park
was completed and proposed an ambitious design with a $63 million investment cost and the
need for subsidized financing and tax exemptions to make it a viable investment. However, it
was never clear how the Government would provide such financial incentives. Moreover, neither
the value of the public assets nor the external (off-site) infrastructure investment costs were
properly assessed, nor was the lack of high-quality and affordable communications infrastructure
                                               44
considered. In light of these gaps in the assessment and lack of interest from private investors
(notably telecommunications companies), a call for proposals was never launched.

B3. Support to Antsirabe Municipality and Vakinakaratra Region

12. In both the Antsirabe Municipality and Vakinakaratra Region, ad-hoc technical assistance
was provided in the areas of urban and regional economic planning, monitoring and evaluation,
and land management, but there was never a clear action plan or record of outcomes and
achievements. IG2P also provided support to install three “hangars” in the Asabotsy
marketplace on the understanding that the Municipality would open the first phase of the market,
but this was ultimately postponed and a proper business plan was not developed. Arguably the
only major lasting contribution but was the establishment of the local Business Support Center
(CGA) in 2008, which continues to operate to this day under private management, providing
training to businesses in accounting and financial management.

Component C: Tourism-led growth in Nosy Be

13. In Nosy Be, IG2P support came at a time of sectoral transition for the local economy
and was instrumental in cushioning the disruptive impacts of this structural shift. The
closure of the state-owned sugar company SIRAMA in 2008 and the fishing company UNIMA
in 2011 led to around 2,800 employee layoffs and a significant decline in the island’s two largest
productive sectors, leaving the burgeoning tourism sector to pick up the slack. While IG2P could
arguably have done more to limit this fallout (e.g. through interventions supporting agribusiness
activities more closely linked to the existing skills sets of these sugar farmers and fishermen),
many of the unemployed workers from SIRAMA and UNIMA nevertheless found refuge in
tourism jobs that the project was helping to create, while much of the remainder started their own
small businesses. In turn, they ultimately became the key seekers and recipients of IG2P’s
business development services, and their nascent businesses benefitted from the basic
infrastructure the project was providing, which previously was available predominantly to the
big companies like SIRAMA and UNIMA on their own lands and facilities.

14. Overall, tourism in Nosy Be is now a significantly more upscale market than it was
before IG2P. Through its own interventions and the various private investments it catalyzed,
IG2P facilitated the transformation of the island from a rural backwater with low quality hotels
and services and a high incidence of sex tourism to much more upscale tourist destination.
Around 130 new hotels were built during the project period and many others upgraded, more
than doubling the island’s room capacity and raising the overall quality of the hotel stock—the
share of hotels with a 3- and 4-star rating rose from only 11 percent in 2005 to 33 percent in
2014. The variety of tourist attractions was also expanded beyond Nosy Be’s traditional
ecotourist sites to include a number of new privately-owned recreation facilities and tourist parks
such as the 18-hole Pearls golf course and the Lemurialand animal park. By 2014, Nosy Be was
on Lonely Planet’s top ten list of islands in the world, and Andilana Beach Resort a top-15 full
board hotel worldwide according to TripAdvisor. Amidst the island’s rising popularity, several
commercial air carriers had started direct flights from France, Italy, and South Africa; these were
suspended during the 2009 crisis and have yet to be resumed, but many family tourism
companies in Italy and France still provide direct connections through charter flights. While sex
tourism remains a problem (as in other tourist destinations in Madagascar), it is nowhere as
prevalent as it was before IG2P.

                                                45
C1. Infrastructure upgrading

15. Nosy Be ports. After repeated delays in agreeing on the port management structure, as well
as resettlement issues in Ankify, rehabilitation of the Hellville and Ankify ports finally began
2013 and was completed only towards the very of end of the project in late 2014. As such, it is
still too early to assess the economic impacts of these upgrades. However, the strengthening and
extension of the berths in both port compounds has significantly improved their organization,
safety and sanitation, helping to relieve congestion and allow for a greater volume of cargo and
tourist traffic, which should pay economic dividends going forward.

16. Urban and feeder roads. The project financed the rehabilitation of 15km of urban roads in
Hellville, Ambatolaoka, Dzamandzar and Ville Andoany, as well as another 45km of feeder
roads that dramatically improved access to key tourist sites such as Mont Passot and rural
communes in the northern parts of the island (which were previously economically isolated from
the urban areas). The completion of the Ring Road, in particular, encouraged a large number of
investments in new hotels and tourist facilities (such as Lemurialand) that would arguably not
have been economically viable otherwise. Travelers along these roads now report a reduced
incidence of accidents and crime (e.g. attacks and robberies), which has enhanced the tourism
image of the island. In addition, for residents and farmers along the northern V1 and V2 roads,
transportation time to urban areas has been cut from as long as several days to only 1-2 hours,
reducing travel costs and improving market opportunities for their goods (particularly quickly-
perishing items).

17. Electricity supply. Prior to IG2P in 2005, Nosy Be faced a tenuous electricity situation:
demand growth was beginning to outpace JIRAMA’s declining local generation capacity, and
JIRAMA’s unprofitable tariff structure (a selling price that was roughly half of supply costs),
coupled with its poor billing and revenue management practices, were forcing the company to
implement rolling blackouts. The project’s partnership with JIRAMA has helped improve the
supply situation significantly for the time being: JIRAMA constructed a new thermal power
plant at Diego Hely and installed three new generators providing 4.8 MW of additional capacity,
while IG2P contributed an additional two generators supplying 4.0MW. Effective production is
now roughly 8MW and should be sufficient to meet demand (currently around 5.2MW) for the
next few years. As a result, the number of blackouts has been noticeably reduced (to around 2
per day compared to more than 4 previously) and their duration shortened. Around 60km of the
electricity distribution network has also been constructed or rehabilitated, helping to expand
electricity coverage to 6,250 households (around 35 percent of the population) compared to
2,500 households (or 20 percent of the population) at the beginning of the project. In pursuit of
longer-term solutions to the island’s growing power needs, the project has also partnered with
AfDB to study options for renewable energy in Nosy Be, including wind, solar, and hydro.
Despite these achievements, many of the institutional challenges to the sustainability of Nosy
Be’s power supply remain, as JIRAMA has yet to implement a cost recovery tariff structure or
demonstrate significant progress in reducing grid losses and customer non-payments (arrears).

C2. Social and sanitary infrastructure

18. Solid waste management. Following a protracted process of agreeing on the institutional
framework for solid waste management and selecting an appropriate site for the landfill facility,
the Municipality established a new public solid waste management entity (EGEDEN) in 2013

                                               46
and IG2P financed the construction of the landfill as well as equipment for collection services.
EGDEN, which is in charge of all stages of waste management (collection, discharge, and
treatment) currently covers 7 fokontany and is set to expand to several more. Its operations have
helped secure access to regular solid waste management services for 75,573 of Nosy Be’s
inhabitants, a significant increase from the baseline of 25,540 in 2005.

19. Water supply and sanitation. The project, in partnership with JIRAMA, financed the
rehabilitation of the water intake/pump station at Amparibe Lake, the expansion of the treatment
facilities, and the construction of new reservoirs at Dzamandzar and at Maroankatsaka. It has
also funded new direct water connections for 1,177 households, the rehabilitation of 86 old
standpipes, and the construction of 80 new standpipes. As a result, 68,520 inhabitants (or around
75 percent of the population) have access to safe drinking water compared 8,010 (13 percent of
population) in 2005. Separately, IG2P partnered with EGEDEN and helped set up a revolving
fund to facilitate the purchase of latrine sets by the population and encourage a transition away
from the traditional unsanitary practice of open-air defecation. Since its launch in 2013, the
latrine program (managed by EGEDEN) has conducted several public awareness campaigns and
helped install 29 household latrines covering 145 people, with 230 more requests still pending.

C3. Support to Nosy Be Municipality

20. Administrative capacity building. Around 166 Municipal staff in Nosy Be were trained
through IG2P support since 2005, and the combination of equipment, software, and technical
assistance provided has led to noticeable improvements in the Municipality’s quality of services
as a result of progressive computerization and reengineering of key municipal procedures (e.g.
installation of new software for construction permit management, roll out of land management
software, renewal of office and IT equipment, continuous capacity building of municipal agents,
etc.). As an example, it now takes only 7 days to issue a construction permit compared to 50 days
in 2005. The improved capacity for revenue collection and financial management has
underpinned the doubling of Nosy Be’s municipal revenues since 2005, particularly property
taxes which grew 15 percent in 2012-13 on the back of the topographical imaging software that
has endowed the Municipality with a spatial database of taxpayers to better determine the
property tax base (i.e. area of the property, type of housing, etc.). In the later stages of the
project, these various forms of technical assistance with governance were also extended to the
rural commune of Ambohimena (6,064 inhabitants) to support communities affected by the
Ankify Port works.

21. Creation of ecotourism facilities. Prior to IG2P, Nosy Tanikely and Mont Passot— Nosy
Be’s two premier tourist sites—lacked adequate management structures and an environmental
protection status, and were in serious danger of anthropogenic degradation, especially Mont
Passot where the incidence of slash and burn cultivation activities and illegal logging were on the
rise. IG2P helped to mobilize partnerships and coalitions between the Nosy Be municipality and
non-profit associations dedicated to the management and preservation of these two ecological
sites, and provided assistance in the design and institutionalization of management structures and
financing mechanisms, the acquisition of the Articles of environmental protection, land security,
and tourism marketing. In addition, IG2P funded the rehabilitation of the access road to Mont
Passot, and the construction of other supporting infrastructure at the both sites (visitor centers,
souvenir shops, etc.) as well as the provision of various equipment and materials. These two sites
are now a key source of tourism revenue and employment for the local private sector: Nosy

                                                47
Tanikely officially opened in March 2010 and draws around 22,000 visitors a year (employing
around 200 local workers), while Mont Passot was inaugurated in early 2014 and has attracted
over 12,000 visitors thus far.

Component D: Tourism and mining-led growth in Fort Dauphin

22. Much like Nosy Be, Fort Dauphin was fundamentally transformed by IG2P and its
mutually-reinforcing partnership with Rio Tinto/QMM. In 2005, the city’s 50,000
inhabitants were effectively cut off from the rest of the country due to the abysmal condition of
the connecting national roads, plagued by recurring famines, and among the poorest in the
country. The region’s main wealth was generated through rice, sisal, coffee, and lychee, exports
of which were severely constrained by the deteriorating capacity of the old port. Solid waste
collection covered 15 percent of households and only 24,000 inhabitants had some form of
access to potable water sources. Today, Fort Dauphin is dramatically improved on all these
fronts. The nearly $1 billion Rio Tinto/QMM mining and port investment catalyzed by IG2P (the
largest foreign investment in Madagascar at the time) unlocked the mining sector as new source
of local employment growth economic growth. QMM’s involvement also brought significant
additional financial resources to the table to complement IG2P’s interventions and enable
infrastructure works that were otherwise beyond scope of the project’s budget envelope. As a
result, Fort Dauphin now has the second largest seaport in Madagascar, vastly improved roads
and water, electricity and sanitation infrastructure, and greater access to basic services, all
contributing to new economic opportunities for the local population..

D1. Infrastructure upgrading

23. Ehoala port. The construction of the new multi-use port, with its three berths and two
large storage warehouses, was completed in 2009 (funded by a $35 million contribution from
IG2P and $221 million from QMM) and became the new commercial gateway for Fort Dauphin
and the broader Anosy region, which was previously cut off from key markets for its agricultural
goods. Since the opening of the port, nearly 2.3 million tons of QMM’s ilmenite have been
exported, along with over 185,000 tons of Fort Dauphin’s other domestic products, including
sisal, lychee, fish and lobsters. An unplanned outcome was that the port also opened up Fort
Dauphin’s tourism industry to cruise ships, and 28,000 tourists have come to Fort Dauphin via
this mode of transport since 2009.

24. Urban and rural roads. Through IG2P’s support, around 75 percent of Fort Dauphin’s
urban roads (31km) have been rehabilitated. The project also financed the rehabilitation of 67km
of the rural RIP 118 road connecting Fort Dauphin to the agriculture-producing communes in
Ranomafana and the broader Anosy Region. This upgrade has helped cut the transportation time
for residents and farmers along RIP118 in half, enabled them to use the road even during the
worst of the wet season,37 and reduced the cost of goods brought in from Fort Dauphin (due to
lower transportation expenses). Similar improvements have also been observed as a result of the
IG2P’s the rehabilitation of 18 km of rural road in Analapatsy-Ranopiso, which provides access
to key agricultural and tourism areas, and the partial rehabilitation of 7 km between Ankarefo
and Fort Dauphin on the RN13. QMM, as part of its mining investment, also constructed a


37
   Although beneficial from an access perspective, use of the road during the rainy season has actually accelerated 
its deterioration since it was rehabilitated. 
                                                        48
modern tarmac road connecting its mine to the Ehoala Port, which helped link the previously-
isolated mining communes to the Fort Dauphin municipality.

25. Electricity supply. The project itself provided only $2.7 million for purchases of electrical
equipment and public lighting units (cables, transformers, switches, etc.) to be installed by
JIRAMA through its internal budget. However, through the broader partnership between QMM
and JIRAMA that IG2P helped to foster, a total 23.7 MW in new generation capacity was
installed (predominantly through QMM’s heavy fuel generating plant at its mine site in
Mandena), 13.8km of new electricity distribution networks were constructed, and another 138km
rehabilitated. These upgrades have helped Fort Dauphin secure its medium-to-long term power
supply and extend electricity access to virtually all its residents. It is now the only city in
Madagascar where there are effectively no blackouts.

D2. Social and sanitary infrastructure

26. Water supply and sanitation systems. As a result of the 500 new household water
connections financed by the project and the 149 community standpipes that were either newly-
constructed or rehabilitated, roughly 95 percent of Fort Dauphin’s population now has access to
safe drinking water compared to around 50 percent in 2005. As in Nosy Be, IG2P also helped to
set up a latrine program in April 2013 (co-funded by QMM and managed by the VAGNOMASY
platform) which has constructed 49 new latrines out of 237 requests. The institutional framework
and sustainability of the program remain fragile, however, and the cost of latrines is still
prohibitively expensive for many households.

27. Solid waste management. Under its partnership with IG2P, QMM financed the
construction of a new landfill site for Fort Dauphin at Ankarefo, which will be operated by a
financially independent private operator beginning in 2015. With the additional revenues
generated from increased economic activity since the start of the project, the Fort Dauphin
Municipality has also been able to procure new waste management equipment (trucks,
collections bins, etc.) and strengthen its waste pre-collection and collection services. As a result,
the number of urban dwellers with access to regular solid waste management services has
increased from 13,500 at the start of the project (around 25 percent of the urban population) to
68,033 (essentially the entire population).

D3. Support to Fort Dauphin municipality and rural communes

28. Fiscal and administrative capacity building. The project has delivered technical
assistance—in the form of coaching, provision of equipment and software, and job-specific skills
training—to 231 Municipal staff since 2005, helping to improve capacity over a range of
municipal functions such as general administration, revenue collection, land management, and
issuance of licenses and permits. The impacts on the land tenure office are exemplary: training
and new equipment helped the office transition from an outdated paper records system to a more
secure and modern computerized archive, while a new digital land mapping software has
improved the enforcement of land titles and the levying of appropriate property taxes. The time it
takes for the office to issue construction permits has also fallen from up to 90 days at the start of
the project to around 17 days at present. In the civil registry office, similar improvements have
been observed, with basic documents such as birth, death and marriage certificates that used to
take 2-3 days to issue now being delivered in as little as 15-20 minutes. All told, the increased

                                                 49
fee collection from greater efficiency of these services and from improved financial management
has contributed to a roughly five-fold increase in Fort Dauphin’s municipal revenues since 2005.

        Table A5: Summary of project chain of outputs and intermediate outcomes


COMPONENT                        MAJOR OUTPUTS                                INTERMEDIATE OUTCOMES

A: Strengthening the business environment

1. Access to finance             • PCGS: From June 2006 to program            • Participating banks' MSME portfolio
                                 peak in 2008, the two participating banks    increased from 2% of total loans to a
                                 (BNI-Madagascar and BFV Societé              peak of 10%
                                 General) had granted 1206 loans to           • Cost of borrowing for beneficiaries
                                 MSMEs totaling $30.3 million                 reduced
                                 • 240 bank staff trained in MSME lending
                                 & procedures
2. MSME capacity building
(i) TVET training and business   • Subsidized BDS services provided to
development services (BDS)       over 5200 individuals/firms through
                                 TVET programs such as Anosy
                                 Vocational Training center in Fort
                                 Dauphin (CFPTA), CFTH privately-
                                 managed hotel training school in Nosy-
                                 Be, CARA, CGA, AMPF, MERA/OMEF

   (ii) Matching grants          • Since PARC’s re-launch in 2012,
   scheme (PARC)                 $850,000 in grants disbursed, mostly in
                                 agricultural and tourism activities,
                                 mobilizing $1.36 million in co-
                                 investment by beneficiaries.

   (iii) Value chain             • Crop production across 7 communes in       • Average household income in 7
   development                   Amboasary boosted by 2,075 tons as a         communes has increased by $164 over
                                 result of contract farming scheme run in     the one year of the scheme
                                 partnership with CARE International
3. Tourism development           • Completion of air transport and access
initiatives                      study
                                 • Promotional materials and training
4. Improving the business        • Creation of EDBM                           • Days required to start a business
environment                                                                   reduced from 30 days to 7 days in
                                                                              regions (in line with targets), and from
                                                                              21 to 8 days in capital (slightly short of
                                                                              targets)
B: Export-led growth in Antananrivo-Antsirabe (cancelled in 2012)
1. Enhance
EPZ/manufacturing                • Training of managers in textile and        No traceable impacts
competitiveness                  garments industries, and postgraduate
                                 training in IT systems
   (i) Skills development        • Feasbility study completed on cold
                                 chain (refrigerated transportation)
   (ii) Agro-technopole          • Completion of feasibility study for agro   No impacts since private interest in the
                                 techno-pole in Antsirabe                     pole dissipated with onset of crisis


                                                        50
2. ICT business park                                                          No impacts: call for investor proposals
development                     • Completion of feasibility studies for       was never launched
                                ICT Business park in Antanetibe
3. Support to Vakinakaratra                                                   No traceable impacts due to lack of clear
                              • TA for urban and regional economic
region and Antsirabe                                                          action plan and record of achievements
                              planning, M&E, and land management;
municipality
                              establishment of CGA
C: Tourism-led growth in Nosy Be

1. Infrastructure upgrading
   (i) Roads and urban          • 60km of urban and access roads              • Improved access to key tourist sites
   infrastructure               rehabilitated (exceeding results targets)     • Transportation/shipping time from
                                                                              remote northern part of island to center
                                                                              reduced dramatically (from several days
                                                                              to 1-2 hours)
   (ii) Hellville and Ankify    • Strengthening and extension of port         • Increased capacity for cargo and tourist
   ports                        berths (results target achieved)              cruise ships

   (iii) Electricity system     • New generators installed adding 4MW         • Number of blackouts reduced (to
                                of capacity*                                  average of 2 per/day compared 4+
                                                                              previously) and duration shortened
                                • 29.7 km of distribution lines constructed   • Electricity coverage increased from
                                (below target) and 69km rehabilitated         2,500 households (roughly 20% of
                                (almost 3x amount targeted)                   population) to 6,250 households (around
                                                                              35% of population)
2. Social and Sanitary
infrastructure
    (i) Water and sanitation    • Construction of 2 new reservoirs and        • Targets on potable water access
    systems                     rehabilitation of pump stations and           exceeded: 68,520 inhabitants (75% of
                                treatment facilities                          population) have access to safe drinking
                                • 80 standpipes constructed and 86            water compared 8,010 (13% of
                                rehabilitated                                 population) in 2005
                                • 1177 new household water connections
   (ii) Solid waste             • New waste management entity                 • Target on solid waste services
   management                   (EGEDEN) established, covering 7              coverage exceeded: Increase in access to
                                fokontany                                     solid waste management services (from
                                • New landfill site constructed and           25,540 to 75,573 urban dwellers)
                                equipment for collection provided
3. Support to Nosy Be           • Conservation of Mont Passot and Nosy        • Nosy Tanikely now generates 22,000
Municipality                    Tanikely                                      visitors per year (and employs 200
                                                                              locals), and Mont Passot 12,000 since
                                                                              opening in April 2014
                                • 166 staff trained and provided with new     • Processing time for construction permit
                                software and equipment                        reduced from 50 to 7 days (even more
                                                                              than targeted)
                                • Tourism and urban master plans              • Adoption of participatory budgeting
                                completed
D: Tourism and mining-led growth in Fort Dauphin
1. Infrastructure upgrading
   (i) Construction of Ehoala   • Multi-use port with three wharfs and        • 2.3 million tons of ilmenite exported
   Port                         two warehouses                                since 2009, and 185,000 tons of other
                                                                              cargo (including sisal, lychee, fish and
                                                                              lobsters)
                                                                              • 31 new cruise ship arrivals carrying
                                                                              over 28,000 passengers
                                                       51
   (ii) Roads and urban          • Rehabilitation of 31km of urban roads    • Transportation/shipping time for
   infrastructure                (75% of total) and 92 km rural roads       agricultural producers along RIP118
                                                                            reduced by 50%
   (ii) Electricity system       • 23.7MW of new generation capacity        • Power supply in medium term is
                                 installed**                                secure; Fort Dauphin is only city in
                                 • 13.8km of new distribution networks      Madagascar with virtually no blackouts
                                 constructed and 138km rehabilitated
2. Social and Sanitary
infrastructure
   (i) Water and sanitation      • 500 new household water connections      • Targets on potable water access
   systems                                                                  exceeded: Access to safe drinking water
                                 • 115 standpipes constructed and 34        increased from 50% of population to
                                 rehabilitated                              95%.
   (ii) Solid waste              • New landfill site constructed at         • Target on solid waste services
   management                    Ankarefo                                   coverage exceeded: Urban dwellers with
                                                                            access to regular solid waste
                                                                            management services increased from
                                                                            13,500 to 68,033 (essentially covering
                                                                            entire population)

   (iii) Fort Dauphin hospital   • Rehabilitation of hospital building,     • Higher quality treatment for
                                 including surgery block                    emergency cases


3. Support to Fort Dauphin       • 231 staff trained and new software and   • Processing time for construction permit
Municipality                     equipment provided for various             reduced from 90 to 17 days (exceeding
                                 Municipality functions: land tenure,       target)
                                 construction permit issuance, general
                                 administration and revenue management      • Adoption of participatory budgeting

                                 • Regional urban and tourism master
                                 plans designed and endorsed by local
                                 authorities




                                                        52
 Additional information on PDO-level outcomes

                         Table A6: Revisions to key PDO-level outcome indicators
                            Note: shaded rows denote indicators in place at close of project

Original indicators       Revisions at first               Revisions at second        Rationale/comments
(from PAD)                restructuring (2007)             restructuring (2012)
1.1 Number of tourists    (Moved to intermediate           Number of tourist          Revised: (i) clarification by
arriving at Nosy Be       outcome indicators for           arrivals by air and sea    adding “by air and sea” to facilitate
and Taolagnaro            Components C and D)              per annum to Nosy Be       interpretation of results. Tourists
airports and ports                                         and Taolagnaro             arriving by road are not counted.
1.2 Volume of             Indicator for Tamatave and                                  Poor attribution to project activities
merchandise and           Ivato airport dropped;                                      in Antananarivo-Antsirabe and
minerals shipped          indicator for Taolagnaro                                    subject to multiple external
through the               revised and moved to                                        influences; focus shifted to traffic
Taolagnaro and            intermediate results for                                    in newly-constructed Ehoala Port
Tamatave ports and        Component D (Volume of
Ivato airport             traffic handled through
                          Ehoala Port)
                          (Added) 1.3: Annual private      Dropped                    Poor attribution since indicator
                          investment flows                                            tracked investment at the national
                                                                                      level rather than in regional poles
                          (Added) 1.4 Number of new        (Revised) 1.4: Number      Revisions include: (i) dropping
                          businesses                       of businesses registered   reference to Antananarivo-
                          registered in the three poles:   in the two poles: Nosy     Antsirabe; (ii) removing word
                          Antananarivo-Antsirabe,          Be; Fort                   “new” to clarify that figures refer
                          Nosy Be,                         Dauphin                    to cumulative stock, not annual
                          Fort Dauphin                                                change; (iii) aligning 2012-14
                                                                                      targets with 2011 baseline.
2. Number of new jobs     No change                        (Revised) 2: Number of     Revisions include: (i) dropping
created in the three                                       formal jobs in the two     reference to Antananarivo-
poles: Antananarivo-                                       poles: Nosy Be; Fort       Antsirabe; (ii) dropping reference
Antsirabe, Nosy Be,                                        Dauphin                    to “new” and “created” and adding
Fort Dauphin                                                                          “formal”; (iii) aligning 2012-14
                                                                                      targets with 2011 baseline.
                                                           (Added) 3.1: Direct        New mandatory core indicator.
                                                           project beneficiaries      Baseline was planned to be
                                                           (number), of which         estimated in household survey.
                                                           female (percentage)
                          (Added) 4. EDBM fully            (Moved to Component        Achieved in 2007
                          staffed and operational          A)
                          (Added) 5. Adoption and          (Moved to Component A      Reference to “implementation”
                          implementation                   and revised)               dropped; achieved in 2006.
                          of regional development          Adoption of regional
                          plans                            development plans
                          (Added) 6. Adoption by           (Moved to Component        PDO outcome indicator achieved
                          National Assembly                A)                         and moved to Component A
                          of a new Investment Law and                                 intermediate results indicator.
                          amended Free Zone law




                                                           53
Derivation of overall PDO efficacy rating

129. The PDO outcome indicator for the Antananarivo-Antisrabe pole which tracked cargo
shipped through Tamatave port and Ivato airport was dropped before the first project
restructuring in 2007 and thus factors minimally into the assessment. This indicator was
broadly on track with targets in 2007, but as discussed earlier, it was a poor measure of growth in
Antananarivo-Antsirabe: since Ivato airport and Tamatave port were central gateways for the
entire country, their volume of traffic was subject to a variety of external influences and cyclical
factors that made establishing causal linkages to project activities especially difficult. In this
sense, the indicator’s removal from the project arguably improved the quality of the M&E
framework.

130. Meanwhile, the PDO outcome indicator on tourist arrivals in Nosy Be and Fort
Dauphin was reclassified as an intermediate results indicator. This more accurately reflected
that increased tourist arrivals were only an intermediate step in the chain to increased growth,
and not guaranteed to translate into sustained local benefits. In any case, tourist arrivals were
running ahead of targets in 2007 in both Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin. Momentum turned south
with the onset of the political crisis, leading arrivals to ultimately fall short of original end-2012
targets, but they have recovered over the                            Figure 3: Tourist arrivals
past 3 years. Relative to revised targets, the Index (2005=100)
indicator has been achieved in Fort 300
Dauphin and fallen slightly short in Nosy                          Rest of Madagascar
Be on account of the security incident in 250                      Nosy Be
late 2013 (see section 2.2). More                                  Fort Dauphin
importantly, the trajectory of arrivals in the 200
two poles since 2005 has been higher than 150
in the rest of country, declining less in
2009 and recovering more rapidly since, 100
suggesting IG2P helped stave off some of
the negative impacts of the crisis (Figure         50

3). For the purposes of the efficacy rating,
                                                    0
however, the focus is on the pre-2008                  2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
period during which tourist arrivals were             Source: INSTAT
formally a PDO outcome indicator.

131. Similarly, the PDO indicator on direct project beneficiaries (added during the second
project restructuring in 2012) is discounted due to its low project-specific relevance. This
“core” indicator was added in accordance with new Bank requirements for results frameworks
and is not unique to the IG2P results chain. It is therefore not explicitly considered in this
assessment even though its targets were met by a comfortable margin.

132. The core of the efficacy assessment is therefore based on PDO indicators in place
throughout the entire project or since the first restructuring. These include: (1) job creation,
present for the entire project; (2) business creation, in place since the first restructuring and
covering 70 percent of disbursements; and (3) private investment, introduced during the first
restructuring but dropped at the second restructuring, thus covering 53 percent disbursements.



                                                  54
                      Table A7: Summary of achievement of PDO-level outcomes (efficacy)

PDO indicator                Achievement vs. original PDO and indicator targets             Achievement vs. revised    Overall
                                                                                                PDO and targets        efficacy
                         Prior to first       Indicator   Between first and    Indicator   After second    Indicator   rating
                         restructuring         weight     second                weight     restructuring    weight
                         (2005-2007, 30%                  restructurings                   (2013-2014,
                         of                               (2008-2012, 53%                  17% of
                         disbursements)                   of disbursements)                disbursements)
1. Volume of cargo       Substantial (3)        33%                                                                       3
shipped through          On track with
Tamatave port and        targets, but poor
Ivato airport            attribution to
                         project activities
2. Tourist arrivals      Substantial (3)        33%                                                                       3
    Nosy Be              Substantial (3)        14%
                         On track to
                         exceed targets
   Fort Dauphin          Substantial (3)        19%
                         On track to
                         exceed targets
3. Private investment                                     Substantial (2.9)     33%                                      2.9
    Antananarivo-                                         Negligible (1)        1.3%
    Antsirabe                                             Private
                                                          investments
                                                          linked to project
                                                          never materialized
   Nosy Be                                                Substantial (3)       13.7%
                                                          Significant hotel
                                                          and tourist site
                                                          investment
   Fort Dauphin                                           Substantial (3)       18.3%
                                                          Large mining and
                                                          agribusiness
                                                          investments
4. Job creation          High (3.9)            33%        Substantial (3.1)     33%        High (4)          50%         3.5
    Antananarivo-        Modest (2)            1.3%       Negligible (1)        1.3%
    Antsirabe            On track with                    Fell short of
                         targets but weak                 targets; weak
                         attribution to                   attribution as
                         project activities               support for pole
                                                          effectively
                                                          stopped in 2010
   Nosy Be               High (4)              13.7%      Modest (2)            13.7%      High (4)          25%
                         Ahead of targets                 Targets not met                  Targets
                                                                                           exceeded
   Fort Dauphin          High (4)              18.3%      High (4)              18.3%      High (4)          25%
                         Ahead of targets                 Targets exceeded                 Targets
                                                                                           exceeded
5. Business creation                                      High (3.9)            33%        High (4)          50%         3.9
    Antananarivo-                                         Modest (2)            1.3%
    Antsirabe                                             Targets exceeded
                                                          targets but poor
                                                          attribution to
                                                          project activities
   Nosy Be                                                High (4)              13.7%      High (4)

                                                               55
                                                       Original targets                 Revised
                                                       exceeded                         targets
                                                                                        exceeded
   Fort Dauphin                                        High (4)               18.3%     High (4)
                                                       Original targets                 Revised
                                                       exceeded                         targets
                                                                                        exceeded
Weighted total                                 3.3                             3.3                           4.0
(rating x indicator                         (Substa-                        (Substa-                       (High)
weight)                                       ntial)                          ntial)
Overall efficacy                               3.3                             3.3                           4.0      Substa-
rating                                       x 30%                           x 53%                         x 17%      ntial
(disbursement-
weighted)                                     1.0                              1.7                           0.7      3.4
 Note: The following values were assigned to efficacy ratings for the purposes of this analysis: High=4; Substantial=3;
 Modest=2; Negligible=1. Within each indicator, weights for each regional pole are assigned according to the share of
 total actual (not budgeted) project spending on each pole: 4 percent in Antananarivo-Antsirabe, 41 percent in Nosy Be,
 and 55 percent in Fort Dauphin.




                                                            56
                          Table A8: Summary of key risks to development outcome

Risk                        Probability   Impact                             Mitigation measures          Overall risk
                                                                                                          assessment
1. Technical/financial
Maintenance of          Significant       Increased transaction/logistics    Earmarked funding from       Moderate
critical infrastructure                   costs for private firms and        central government
(e.g. roads, ports,                       constraints on expansion;          budget for road
electricity and water                     future private investment          maintenance in Nosy Be
systems)                                  deterred
                                                                             Participatory budgeting
Financial                   Moderate      Increases in access to             Delegation of public         Moderate
sustainability of local                   electricity, clean water, and      services to private
institutions providing                    solid waste services are           operators;
basic services                            reversed                           Autonomous management
                                                                             of JIRAMA in Nosy Be
2. Governance
Retention of human          Moderate      Weakened municipal revenue         Diversification of funding   Moderate
capital and                               collection; deterioration in       sources for TVET
administrative                            skills of new labor market         institutions
capacity                                  entrants
3. Social
Social unrest in            Significant   Increased local violence and                                    Significant
mining communes                           disruption of QMM mining
                                          operations
4. Economic
Weak private                Moderate      Integrated growth platform         Decree supporting            Moderate
investment (both                          supported by IG2P is not fully     EDBM’s financial
domestic and                              leveraged to stimulate future      sustainability and its
foreign)                                  growth in high-potential           capacity to promote and
                                          sectors                            facilitate investment
5. Political
Renewed outbreak of         Moderate      Flight of foreign capital;                                      Moderate
political crisis                          reduced maintenance of IG2P
                                          infrastructure and institutions;
                                          interrupted implementation of
                                          PIC2
6. Legal/regulatory
Lack to reform to air       Significant   Tourism industry unable to         PIC2 sub-component           Moderate
access policy                             realize its full growth            supporting improved
                                          potential                          competitiveness in air
                                                                             transport sector
OVERALL                                                                                                   MODERATE




                                                            57
ANNEX 3: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

This economic and financial analysis of IG2P in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
conducted on the basis of a cost-benefit flow model for each regional pole over a 25-year
projection horizon—from the start of the project in 2005 to 2030, the assumed terminal period of
economic flows. Benefits were modeled as economic rents in the relevant economic sectors
targeted by the project in each regional pole, while costs were based solely on the IDA credit
expenditures for the project (i.e. they did not include spending by private sector partners such as
Rio Tinto). Net present values (NPV) and economic rates of return in this model were calculated
under the assumption of a 10 percent real discount rate,38 broadly in line with yields on
Madagascar’s government bonds at the time and the perceived risk level of the project.

The parameters and assumptions underlying this analysis were updated at the time of project’s
mid-term review in 2008 based on outcomes in the first two years of project implementation. At
that time, the cost-benefit model was also enriched with several new sources of benefits and
economic linkages not explicitly considered in the PAD.

This annex builds on the mid-term update, preserving the initial methodology of the PAD (for
comparability purposes) but also considering a wider range of potential impacts from IG2P’s
interventions. Parameters which were simply assumptions at the time of appraisal are updated
using actual outcome data through the closing of the project in 2014, with the projections for the
post-project forecast horizon adjusted accordingly. The 10 real percent discount rate for
estimating NPVs and economic rates of return is retained in light of numerous risks identified at
the time of appraisal that ultimately materialized (political crisis, shortfall in counterpart funding,
etc). Given these and other adverse developments during the course of implementation, this risk
rate could arguably have been even higher.

Antananarivo-Antsirabe

The main objective of the Antananarivo-Antsirabe Pole was to attract new FDI in the
garment/textile and information/communication industries and create jobs in the existing export
processing zones (EPZs) in Antsirabe and Antananarivo and the planned new (ICT) business
park in Antananarivo. By investing in supporting off-site physical and social infrastructure
(water and sanitation, electricity, roads, telecommunications), improving EPZ administration and
customs procedures, and developing labor skill and services to MSMEs, IG2P was supposed to
reduce the various costs faced by existing garment/textile and emerging ICT firms, resulting in a
better investment climate for higher output and increased employment.




38
   Note that present values in the PAD’s economic analysis tables were calculated using 2006 as the first year of 
cost and benefit flows. Since some project costs were ultimately incurred in 2005, however, the present value of 
flows estimated in the PAD are recalculated here using 2005 as the starting year to allow comparability with the 
ICR present value estimates. They therefore differ slightly from those in the PAD economic analysis tables. 
However, because this temporal adjustment affects both costs and benefits in the same manner, the ERR 
estimates remain unchanged from those presented in the PAD. 
                                                        58
Under this framework, the key benefit of IG2P support was the incremental economic rent
arising from new jobs stimulated by the project.39 In the cost-benefit analysis of the PAD, this
rent was modeled as the incremental wages (over and above the social opportunity cost of labor)
paid to domestic workers associated with activity in the EPZs and ICT Park. At the time of
appraisal, this wage premium was assumed to be $1 per additional job. The total economic return
of the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole hinged on IG2P’s interventions stimulating at least 1,000
new jobs per year (starting in the 4th year of the project). Under this baseline scenario, the NPV
of the pole was estimated at $0.9 million, corresponding to an ERR of 10.5 percent. Any shortfall
in annual job creation relative to this threshold level or a lower-than-expected wage premium
would result in a negative economic return for the pole.

In reality, the bulk of IG2Ps planned interventions in Antananarivo-Antsirabe never materialized.
Feasibility studies for both the ICT Business Park and agro techno-pole were completed, but
there was insufficient private investor interest to get these projects off the ground, and even less
so after the crisis hit in 2009. Some training was administered with IG2P funds between 2006
and 2008—around 300 workers in textile sector, and around 70 students in postgraduate IT
studies—but this was simply too limited to impact employment on the scale projected at
appraisal (1,000 new jobs per year). Moreover, the envisioned employment payoffs were set to
kick in beginning in 2009, but by then job growth in EPZs and the ICT sector was stagnating
amidst the breakout of the crisis and the termination of Madagascar’s AGAO benefits (the latter
of which led to mass layoffs of textile workers). By the time Madagascar emerged from crisis in
2014, IG2P support for the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole had long been abandoned.

For all intents and purposes, therefore, the ex-post economic benefits of pole were essentially
zero, while a total of $6.7 million was invested in the pole (inclusive of component A and project
management and safeguards mitigation costs), resulting in an NPV of –$5.3 million and thus a
negative economic rate of return. Fortunately, thanks to the reduction in funding for the pole
during the first project restructuring and the subsequent dropping of the component entirely once
its lack of feasibility became clear, this expenditure proved to be much smaller than the $17
million originally budgeted for the pole,40 and thus had only a marginal impact on the overall
return of the project.




39
    Other potential benefits, such as fiscal gains from increased EPZ activity and employment, were not considered 
on the grounds that they would be too negligible—firms locating in EPZs, for example, were exempt from 
corporate, trade, and duty taxes.   
40
    The PAD assumed that 0.6 million in annual recurrent costs (5 percent of total investment in the pole) would be 
needed after 2010 (the original project closing date) to maintain the infrastructure put in place by the project. 
However, since none of this infrastructure in the Antananarivo‐Antsirabe actually materialized, recurrent costs 
were reduced to zero in the ICR update of the cost‐benefit model. 
                                                        59
Estimated flows of benefits and costs: Antananarivo‐Antsirabe pole (2005‐2030)
               PV     2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012                                2013   2014   2015 2016‐2030
PAD
Benefits     15.66     0.0     0.0     0.0   0.0 0.33 0.66 0.99 1.32                         1.65   1.98   2.31   74.3
Costs        14.86     0.0     1.8     5.8   5.1    3.9    0.4    0.6    0.6                  0.6    0.6    0.6    9.0
Net           0.80     0.0 ‐ 1.8 ‐ 5.8 ‐5.1 ‐3.57 0.26 0.39 0.72                             1.05   1.38   1.71   65.3
ERR          10.5%

ICR
Benefits          0.00             0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Costs             5.34             1.8       1.6     1.5     1.7    0.1    0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
Net               ‐5.34           ‐1.8      ‐ 1.6   ‐ 1.5   ‐1.7   ‐0.1   ‐0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0
ERR              Negative
Source: PAD  a nd  author's  ca l cul a ti ons .


Nosy Be

In Nosy Be, the cost-economic analysis in the PAD focused exclusively on IG2Ps impacts on the
tourism sector. The potential benefits to agriculture and fishing (from cost savings related to the
project’s road and port improvements) were acknowledged but not explicitly modeled at the time
of appraisal. As part of the update to the economic analysis during the project mid-term review,
estimates of the potential economic rents to these two sectors were developed, but were
relatively small in magnitude compared to tourism rents, and stemmed primarily from the
planned rehabilitation of the Nosy Be ports (Helville and Ankify), which was originally set to be
completed by 2009. Ultimately, the upgrading of these ports was not completed until late 2014,
reducing the present value of the associated benefits. The estimated agriculture and fishing rents
in the ICR model are therefore quite small.41

In the PAD’s cost-benefit model, incremental rents associated with the additional tourist arrivals
and activity stimulated by IG2P’s investments fell into four key categories: (i) fiscal revenue
from tourists, collected via visa fees and hotel taxes; (ii) the local component of tourist
expenditures during their stay, referred to as “backward linkages”; (iii) the additional wage
earnings from employment generated in the tourism sector; and (iv) excursion site entrance fees.
At the time of appraisal, the combined present value of these various benefit streams was
estimated at $77.6 million (assuming a 10 percent discount rate), with the largest contributions
coming from visa fees, backward linkages, and excursion site entrance fees (Figure A). When
netted against the investment and recurrent costs associated with the pole ($45.2 million in PV
terms), this gave a baseline economic rate of return of 17.9 percent.

The key assumptions underpinning this estimate were: 17 percent annual growth in tourist
arrivals and 15 percent growth in hotel rooms for the first 7 years of the project, and 7 percent
and 5 percent thereafter, respectively; an average stay of 5 nights per tourist; a 2 percent annual
increase in the hotel occupancy rate; 2.5 jobs created in the tourism sector per additional hotel
room, with a $1 daily wage premium above the social opportunity cost of labor for these
workers; daily expenditures of $60 per tourist (excluding hotel expenses), of which 20 percent

41
  Estimated rents from fishing are also dampened by the closure of the island’s main industrial fishing company 
UNIMA in 2011, which has resulted in declining export volumes for fish and shrimp. 
                                                                    60
accrued as rent locally42; and an $8 entrance fee for Nosy Be’s land and marine eco-tourist parks
(with each tourist visiting two parks per stay).

Of these, the number of tourist arrivals was the most critical variable, as all incremental tourism
rents were ultimately derived from each additional visitor to Nosy Be. To give some sense of the
inherent sensitivity, for every 5,000 fewer cumulative tourist arrivals over the project period
(2006-2014) compared to the baseline, the estimated present value of expected benefits from
IG2P would be reduced by $3 million, and the economic rate of return of the Nosy Be pole by
0.7 percentage points. The assumption on entrance fees to eco-tourist sites was also particularly
important in this case, since at the time of project approval, the Government did not charge any
fees to visit these publicly-owned sites, meaning any fee increase would be captured in its
entirety as domestic rent.

        Figure A: Estimated present value of tourism benefits in Nosy Be, by category
                                      (PAD vs. ICR)
                 USD million
                 40

                 35                                                    PAD

                 30                                                    ICR

                 25

                 20

                 15

                 10

                  5

                  0
                         Visa fee     Hotel taxes    Backward      Employment Park entrance
                                                      linkages                     fees


In reality, the number of tourist arrivals to Nosy Be though 2014 (nearly half of the 2005-2030
projection period covered by cost-benefit model) has grown at a much lower rate than envisioned
in the PAD, reflecting both the dampening effect of the political crisis on tourism to Madagascar,
and, more recently, the security concerns surrounding the murder of three people at a beach near
Ambatoloaka tourist village. In total, the annual rate of tourist arrivals has risen by around only
25,000 since the inception of the project in 2005, compared to the roughly 64,000 increase
assumed at the time of appraisal. The growth of hotel rooms on the island has also been more
muted as a result, with the number of rooms reaching only 2,150 by 2014, compared to the 2,550
assumed in the PAD. The underperformance in these two factors alone accounts for slightly over


42
   A large portion of these expenditures, assumed to be 80 percent in the case of Nosy Be, falls on goods and 
services which are imported (such as vehicles and fuel used for transportation), and thus cannot be counted as 
domestic tourism rent. 
 
                                                        61
half of the estimated reduction (relative to the PAD) in IG2P’s expected benefits in the Nosy Be
pole.

In the individual benefit categories, the updating of the PAD’s assumptions to reflect actual data
and other developments has furthered lowered the present value of expected benefits:

    Phasing out of tourist visa fees. The shortfall in visa-related revenues was further
     compounded the government’s decision in 2009 to abolish the visa fee for tourists staying in
     Madagascar for less than 30 days. Statistics show that tourists spend an average of 21 days in
     Madagascar, meaning a large majority are now exempt from visa fees.

    Partial capture of eco-tourist entrance fees. The PAD over-estimated the rents from
     entrance fees on several dimensions. First, only a handful of Nosy Be’s ecotourist parks were
     actually valorized (i.e. set up to charge fees) during the project period, and in only two of
     these cases (Nosy Tanikely and Mont Passot) was the valorization a direct result of IG2P
     interventions, meaning only a portion of the incremental rents can be counted as benefits
     related to the project.43 Moreover, sites such as Mont Passot were valorized only in 2014, a
     much later timeline than envisioned in the PAD (lowering the present value of the associated
     rents). Second, the 10,000 Ariary (around $5) entrance fee set by the government for most
     these sites was slightly lower than the $8 assumed in the PAD. Finally, the assumption of
     each tourist visiting two parks per stay in Nosy Be proved overly optimistic, as actual visitor
     data shows that only 5 to 40 percent of tourists visited a park during their stay in Nosy Be.44


On the other hand, survey data collected at several stages of project implementation45 suggested
that the average daily wage in the tourism sector was closer to $2 compared to the $1 assumed in
the PAD, which helped offset the reduction in local salary benefits from lower-than-expected
tourist arrivals and a lower direct job multiplier,46 thus keeping the estimated present value of
local wage benefits broadly unchanged ($11.6 million compared to $10.5 million estimated in
the PAD).


43
    For the sites where valorization was a direct result of IG2P support, entrance fees collected from ALL visiting 
tourists can be counted as economic rent. On the other hand, for those sites where valorization was unrelated to 
IG2P (e.g. Lokobe National Park), only the entrance fees paid by incremental tourists (i.e. the additional number 
since 2005 stimulated by IG2P’s interventions) are counted as rent. Since the PAD assumed the project would be 
responsible for all valorization of existing eco‐tourist parks, entrance fee rents were obviously overestimated. 
However, several new eco‐tourist sites that were not originally envisioned at the time of appraisal were arguably 
created as a result of the project, such as Lemurialand, which was made economically viable due to IG2P’s 
extension of the Ring Road to the Western part of the island. These rents from newly‐created sites attributable to 
the project help to counterbalance the shortfall in rents from the existing sites. 
44
    The visitor rate varies from as low as 5 of every 100 tourists for Lokobe National Park, to 40 of every 100 for 
Nosy Tanikely. 
45
    “Analysis of Strategic Value Chains in Madagascar,” Global Development Solutions LLC, 2007; Mid‐term Economic 
Analysis, 2008; and Madagascar Enterprise Survey 2014. 
46
    Based on the observed growth in hotel rooms through 2014 and the cumulative direct formal jobs created in the 
tourism sector over this period (3,700), the implied job multiplier per hotel room is only 2, slightly lower than the 
2.5 assumed in the PAD. It should be noted that this calculation does not consider the informal tourism jobs 
generated as a result of IG2P’s interventions, but since there is no indication the job multiplier in the PAD 
incorporated informal employment effects, the two parameters are comparable. 
                                                         62
In total, the present value of benefits in Nosy Be at the time of the ICR is estimated at $41.1
million, around than half of the amount projected at the time of appraisal. On the other hand, the
present value of IG2P’s expenditures in Nosy Be (including recurrent costs and a portion of
component A and component E costs) remains largely unchanged ($49.1 million compared to
$45.2 million in the PAD) despite the $23.8 million of new IG2P investment added to the Nosy
Be pole as part of the additional financing credit in 2008.47 This is due to the extension of the
project by 4 years and the severe curtailment of disbursements during the OP/BP 7.30 period,
which spread project expenditures out over a much longer timeframe than envisioned in the
PAD, thus reducing their present value.

All told, this brings the estimated economic rate of return of the Nosy Be pole down to only 7.7
percent, considerably below the assumed real discount rate of 10 percent, implying that it was
ultimately not cost-effective to undertake IG2P’s investments in Nosy Be.

Estimated flows of benefits and costs: Nosy Be  pole ($US million), 2005‐ 2030
                          PV      2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010                                 2011   2012   2013    2014   2015 2016‐2030
PAD
Benefits                 77.6      0.0     1.2     1.9    2.8    3.9     5.1                    6.5    8.2    8.9     9.8    10.7   319.6
 Tourism                 77.6      0.0    1.2     1.9     2.8    3.9     5.1                    6.5    8.2    8.9     9.8    10.7   319.6
 Agriculture & fishing      ─       ─       ─       ─      ─      ─        ─                     ─      ─      ─       ─       ─      ─
Costs                    45.2      0.0     2.7 14.5 19.2 12.0 2.5                               2.2    2.1    2.1     2.1     2.1    31.4
Net                      32.4      0.0 ‐1.5 ‐12.6 ‐ 16.4 ‐ 8.1           2.5                    4.3    6.1    6.8     7.7     8.6   288.2
ERR                      17.9%

ICR
Benefits                             41.1            0.0     0.5    0.7    3.8     1.2    3.0   3.4    3.5     3.2     3.8   4.4    179.4
  Tourism                            38.6           0.0     0.5     0.7    3.8    1.2     3.0   3.4    3.5    3.2     3.8    4.4    164.4
  Agriculture & fishing              2.6            0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.1     15.0
Costs                                49.1            2.7     5.0   13.2 17.3       3.2    1.0   1.1    2.1    10.5    11.2   2.6     39.4
Net                                   ‐8.0          ‐ 2.7   ‐4.6   ‐12.5 ‐ 13.5   ‐ 1.9   2.0   2.3    1.4    ‐ 7.3   ‐7.4   1.8    140.0
ERR                                  7.7%
Source: PAD  a nd  a uthor's  ca l cul a ti ons .




Fort Dauphin

In Fort Dauphin, the economic cost-benefit analysis in the PAD was organized around the three
key sectors expected to be impacted by IG2P’s interventions: tourism, agriculture, and mining.
The key benefit categories were therefore: (i) agricultural rent associated with additional crop
production and exports; (ii) tourism rent associated with additional visitors, and (iii) anticipated
mining rent captured by the country from the Rio Tinto ilmenite project compared with a
situation where the mining investment would be delayed for another five years.




47
   This includes $18.9 million of dedicated new funding to the Nosy Be component, as well 65 percent of new funds 
for component A (strengthening the business environment) and 40 percent of component E (Project management 
and M&E). 
                                                                            63
Tourism

For tourism, as in the case of Nosy Be, the expected benefits to the domestic economy were
projected to come in the form of additional rents captured through visa fees and hotel taxes,
visitors’ local expenditures, excursion site entrance fees, and wages for local hotel workers.
At the time of appraisal, the combined present value of these various tourism rents was estimated
at $28.6 million. The assumptions for the key parameters underpinning this estimate were
identical to those for Nosy Be, with the exception of: (i) average daily tourist expenditures,
which were assumed to be $20 lower in Fort Dauphin, reflecting the lower cost-of-living in this
poor southeastern region of Madagascar; and (ii) the average duration of a tourist’s stay,
estimated to be two nights shorter in Fort Dauphin based on hotel data collected at the time.

As was the case in Nosy Be, tourist arrivals to Fort Dauphin ultimately fell short of the level
assumed at the time of appraisal, although to a lesser extent: through 2014, the annual rate of
tourist arrivals in Fort Dauphin was 20,300 higher than at the beginning of the project, compared
to the 36,000 increase assumed in the PAD. Hotel capacity also expanded at a lower-than-
projected rate: there were only 536 hotel rooms in Fort Dauphin in 2014 compared to the 862
expected. While the political crisis had some role to play in this shortfall, the assumptions in the
PAD also failed to take into account the predominantly business-related nature of tourism during
the construction phase of Rio Tinto’s mining facility and Ehoala Port (2006-2008), and the fact
that this business tourism would drop off considerably thereafter as Rio Tinto’s reduced its
headcount from around 4,500 employees at the peak of construction to the roughly 500 staff
needed for the longer-term operation of its facilities.48

The tourism dynamics associated with the port and mine construction also changed the expected
composition of tourism rents. While rents from visa fees, hotel taxes, entrance fees to tourist
sites, and backward linkages all dropped in magnitude relative to the PAD projections due to the
lower-than-anticipated volume of tourist arrivals, the employment stimulated in the tourism
sector by Rio Tinto’s activities proved to be much higher than expected. A cumulative total of
1,880 jobs were created in the sector over the IG2P period (compared to the 1,400 projected in
the PAD), with the bulk coming towards the end of the construction phase in 2008 and 2009—
implying a multiplier as high as 7 tourism jobs per additional hotel room during this peak period.
As a result, the present value of expected wage rents jumped to $14.2 million, nearly four times
the amount estimated at the time of appraisal (Figure B).49

In the end, however, these increased local salary rents were not sufficient to offset declines in
other rent categories, leaving the estimated present value of tourism benefits in Fort Dauphin at
$23.5 million, around $5 million lower than the PAD estimate.




48
    In fact, several hotels that were primarily housing Rio Tinto contractors and their families closed in 2009 in 
anticipation of the drop‐off in business. 
49
    As in the case of Nosy Be, survey data showed that the local wage for tourism employees was higher than 
assumed in the PAD (around $1.6 per day compared $1). This always contributed to the higher tourism wage rents 
estimated at the time of the ICR. 
                                                        64
    Figure B: Estimated present value of tourism benefits in Fort Dauphin, by category
                                     (PAD vs. ICR)
               USD million
               16

               14
                                           PAD
               12                          ICR
               10

                8

                6

                4

                2

                0
                      Visa fee   Hotel taxes     Backward    Employment Park entrance
                                                  linkages                   fees


Agriculture

For agriculture, incremental economic rents associated with IG2P support arose from: (i) road
improvements, which reduced farm-to-market transportation costs; (ii) the new Ehoala Port,
which lowered the cost of imported inputs for local producers (via a lower international freight
rate) and also expanded their opportunities to export and capture rents from selling abroad at
prices higher than those prevailing on the local market; and (iv) the additional demand for local
food products by hotels and restaurants due to increased tourist activity and QMM’s operations.
At the time of appraisal, the agricultural production and export capacity projected to be unlocked
through road rehabilitation and the construction of Ehoala Port was significant. Around 2,000
additional tons of sisal (Fort Dauphin’s main export at the time) was expected to be exported
through the new port, as well as 1,500 tons each of rosy periwinkle and lychee—two crops which
were in excess supply domestically and had yet to be commercialized for export. Additional
benefits from the reductions in road transport and international freight costs were expected for
other key local products, such as onions, cloves, pink peppers, and crayfish, but these were not
included in the PAD analysis on the grounds that the timeframe for their increased production
was uncertain and would only be realized through additional investments in farmer organization.

Although the Ehoala Port opened up for business in 2009 as planned, the expected export growth
in the three high-potential crops (sisal, periwinkle, and lychee) has thus far failed to materialize,
owing in large part to the financial strains of local producers amidst the prolonged domestic
political/economic crisis, as well as the broader global economic downturn around this period,
which depressed external demand for Madagascar’s exports. While sisal exports have recovered
from their declining trajectory in the years prior to opening of Ehoala Port (reflecting the
deteriorating capacity of the old port), they have yet to surpass their average levels in the pre-
IG2P period (2000-2005). Commercial exports of lychee and periwinkle, meanwhile, have still
not commenced at all on any significant scale. With the economic environment in Madagascar
and abroad now on an upswing, the ICR projections assume that exports of these three products
                                                 65
will begin to increase starting in 2015, but the delay relative to PAD assumptions reduces the
present value of economic rents from these products noticeably (to $15.4 million in the ICR
projection compared to $18.2 million in the PAD).

Despite the underperformance in these three main rent-generating crops, IG2P has nevertheless
generated positive developments in the crops that were excluded from agricultural rent
calculations at the time of the PAD. Production of local vegetables, legumes, and cereals has
expanded as a result of increased local demand from Rio Tinto’s facilities and the restaurants and
hotels servicing the increased tourism activity, as well as from the direct contract farming
support in Amboasary through the IG2P/Care International partnership.50 Meanwhile, the
rehabilitation of the RIP118 has proved critical in unlocking market access for pink pepper
farmers along this road, who have boosted their production from only 6 tons before the project to
an estimated 45 tons in 2014. Crayfish exports have also benefited from cost savings associated
with Ehoala Port, and doubled since 2009. Although the combined incremental rents from these
various products are estimated to be small in the grand scheme (around $3 million in present
value terms), they nevertheless represent an important contribution of IG2P and help to partially
offset the lower-than-expected rents from sisal, periwinkle, and lychees.

Mining

In the mining sector, the economic rents to Madagascar modeled in the PAD’s cost-benefit
analysis derived from: (i) the mining royalties and various taxes paid by Rio Tinto to the local
authorities and the central government; (ii) the incremental increase in wages paid to Rio Tinto’s
local employees; (iii) Rio Tinto’s local purchases for the construction and operation of the
mining and facility and Ehoala Port; and (iv) the spending on local products by its employees
(both local and expatriates). Since the contribution of IG2P to the mining sector was in bringing
forward the timeline of Rio Tinto’s investment, the incremental rents attributable to IG2P in each
of these categories were calculated relative to a counterfactual scenario where Rio Tinto’s
investment was delayed for another 5 years.

The PAD assumed a fairly rapid ramp-up of ilmenite production by Rio Tinto, with 320,000 tons
being exported in the first year of operation (2009), rising to 750,000 tons (the maximum
estimated production potential) by 2016. At the sale price path assumed for ilmenite—$88 per
ton at the outset, rising to $225 per ton by 2013, before falling to a long-term average of around
$120—these exports amounts were projected to generate around $360 million in cumulative
revenue for Rio Tinto between 2009 and 2014. Combined with another $55 million in proceeds
from zirsill exports over this period, 51 this revenue path was expected to generate positive annual
net income for the company as early as 2010, and therefore a steady stream of dividend
payments to its shareholders (including the Madagascar government, which owned a 20 percent
equity stake).

Under this financial scenario, the incremental taxes and mining royalties owed by Rio
Tinto/QMM were projected to total $26 million between 2006 and 2014. The largest payment

50
    CARE estimates that the contract farming scheme has benefitted 2,635 farmers in the Amboasary region and 
increased their annual profits by $437,200 (around $166 per farmer).  
51
    Zirsill tonnage was not explicitly projected in the PAD; the revenues generated from its export can be implied by 
subtracting ilmenite revenue from the total projected revenue for Rio Tinto/QMM. 
                                                         66
categories were expected to be corporate income taxes, even though the company was exempt
from paying these until 2015 in accordance with the mining concession agreement,52 and taxes
on dividend distributions. In addition, the government was expected to collect a further $16
million from personal income taxes by Rio Tinto’s employees (both local and expatriate) over
this period.

In total, the present value of these various tax payments on an incremental basis (i.e. compared
to a scenario where mining operations started 5 years later) was estimated at $23.1 million over
the full projection period (2005-2030). Additional incremental benefits stemming from the wage
earnings of local Rio Tinto workers, the local share of expenditures by these employees (and
expatriates), and the local purchases of the company during the construction phase (2006-2008)
and to maintain its operations thereafter, were expected to add another $15.2 million in present
value terms, bringing the total mining rent from IG2P to $38.3 million.

       Figure C: Evolution of Rio Tinto/QMM ilmenite price and revenues, 2009-2014

                     140                                                                   145

                                     Revenue from ilmenite                                 140
                     120             sales
                                     Ilmenite price                                        135
                     100
                                                                                           130
                      80
                                                                                           125
                      60
                                                                                           120
                      40
                                                                                           115

                      20                                                                   110

                       0                                                                   105
                             2009        2010         2011        2012   2013     2014*

                           * Estimate
                           Source: Rio Tinto

The actual experience through 2014 has fallen short of these expectations for a variety of
reasons. First, unanticipated technical challenges53 in the mining process constrained Rio Tinto’s
ilmenite production volumes during the first few years of operations,54 and also raised the costs
of production beyond what was initially expected. Ilmenite prices on global markets also never
reached the peak of $225 expected during the first 6 years of exports; instead, they have
averaged around $140 instead over this period, and been on a downward trajectory since 2012

52
    The corporate income tax rate was set at 0 percent for the first 9 years of the mining project (2006‐2015), 10 
percent for the subsequent 10 years, and 15 percent thereafter. 
53
    QMM’s ilmenite production was initially constrained by the selection of wet mining as the primary extraction 
method, which proved ill‐suited to the conditions in Fort Dauphin, and required QMM to make technical 
adjustments and shift to a combination of wet and dry mining before it could ramp up its production volume. 
54
    After the initial technical delays, ilmenite production actually increased quicker than expected, so that the 
cumulative export volume through 2014 (around 2.3 million tons) is actually on par with expectations at the time 
of the PAD. 
                                                             67
amidst weak global demand for ilmenite and high inventory volumes elsewhere in the world
(Figure C). As a result, QMM’s combined revenues from ilmenite and zirsill through 2014 have
fallen short of expectations: a cumulative $354 million on an inflation-adjusted basis compared
to $415 million projected at the time of the PAD.55 With operating expenses also running higher-
than-expected, the company has recorded net losses in every year of operation thus far, and thus
been unable to pay out any dividends. At current ilmenite production levels and prices, the ICR
model projects that these losses would continue indefinitely.


Rio Tinto’s financial underperformance has directly translated into lower-than-expected fiscal
contributions. Through 2014, the company has paid a total of only $14 million in taxes and
royalties in inflation-adjusted terms (compared to the $32 million initially expected). Moreover,
assuming the company continues to accumulate losses, future corporate income and dividend tax
payments will also not materialize as planned, reducing the present value of benefits from these
two items considerably. Personal income tax collection from Rio Tinto workers, on the other
hand, has exceeded projections due to the high employment levels during the construction phase
(over 4,500 workers), as has the wage rents and local spending by these employees (Figure D).
The local content of purchases during the construction of the mining facility and Ehoala Port was
also considerably higher-than-expected—around $80 million was spent by Rio Tinto on local
goods and services and on social and community development programs (see Annex 7). These
latter two sources of economic rent have helped offset the significant shortfall in QMM’s tax
payments.

      Figure D: Estimated present value of mining rents in Fort Dauphin (PAD vs. ICR)
                       USD million
                       30

                       25                            PAD
                                                     ICR
                       20

                       15

                       10

                        5

                        0
                            Corporate taxes    Salary taxes        Wages            Local
                             and royalties                                       expenditures


In total, the present value of incremental mining rents from IG2P at the time of the ICR is
estimated at $30.6 million, compared to $38.3 million in the PAD. Note that for comparability
purposes, these figures do not factor in benefits from the increased export of other local minerals
such as mica, as these were not considered in the PAD analysis. These are estimated to be


55
   The comparison must be done on a real (i.e. inflation‐adjusted) basis since the cost‐benefit analysis is all in real 
terms and NPV’s are calculated using a real discount rate. 
                                                           68
significant, as the opening of Ehoala Port boosted local mica exports from an average of around
1,000 tons in 2005-2008 to nearly in 14,000 tons in 2013.

Summary

Aggregating across the three sectors, the total estimated benefits in Fort Dauphin from IG2P
interventions amount to $69.5 million in present value terms. The shortfall relative to the PAD
projection of $85.1 million is spreads across the three sectors, but stems predominantly from
lower mining rents. As in the case of Nosy Be, however, the present value of costs (investment
and recurrent costs) is slightly reduced compared to the PAD due to the longer period over which
they were ultimately realized. This limits the decline in the estimated NPV of the Fort Dauphin
pole and keeps its economic rate of return at 12.0 percent, below the 12.9 percent estimated in
the PAD but above the cut-off discount rate of 10 percent.

Estimated flows of benefits and costs: Fort Dauphin pole ($US million), 2005‐2030
                          PV      2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011                              2012   2013   2014   2015 2016‐2030
PAD
Benefits                 85.1      0.0    1.2    2.1    8.1    9.6 10.2 9.8                       10.3   14.5   12.8   14.7   215.3
 Tourism                28.6       0.0    0.6    0.9    1.2    1.6    2.1     2.7                 2.9    3.2    3.5    3.8    113.6
 Agriculture & fishing  18.2       0.0    0.0    0.0    2.9    2.8    2.9     2.0                 2.2    2.3    2.4    2.5    46.0
 Mining                 38.3       0.0    0.6    1.3    3.9    5.1    5.1     5.1                 5.2    9.0    6.9    8.4    55.7
Costs                    71.9      0.0    3.4 26.3 31.5 27.7 2.7              2.2                  2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    15.3
Net                      13.2      0.0 ‐ 2.2 ‐24.1 ‐23.5 ‐18.2 7.5            7.6                  8.1   12.3   10.6   12.5   200.0
ERR                     12.9%

ICR
Benefits                            69.5             0.0    1.2     7.1   9.2 11.0   7.2    6.3    4.5   5.3     3.5   8.0    217.4
  Tourism                           23.5            0.0    0.3      0.5   1.4  0.9   1.3   2.1    2.4    2.5     2.8   3.2    97.5
  Agriculture & fishing             15.4            0.0    0.0      0.0 ‐1.0 ‐0.8    1.6   0.5    0.9    1.6     1.6   2.1    84.4
  Mining                            30.6            0.0    0.9      6.6   8.9 11.0   4.2   3.7    1.2    1.2    ‐0.9   2.8    35.4
Costs                               61.7             2.1    2.4    19.0 32.4 7.0     4.0    7.0    9.2   2.2     4.4   1.9    10.4
Net                                  7.7            ‐2.1   ‐ 1.2   ‐11.9 ‐23.2 4.0   3.2   ‐0.7   ‐4.7   3.1    ‐0.9   6.1    207.0
ERR                                 12.0%
Source: PAD  a nd  a uthor's  ca l cul a ti ons .


It is important to note that, unlike in the Antananarivo-Antsirabe and Nosy Be poles, the majority
of estimated benefits from IG2P in Fort Dauphin could not be realized without the private sector
contribution to the Ehoala Port. Given that the cost overruns in the construction of the port ($256
million compared to the $85 million initially estimated) were absorbed entirely by Rio Tinto, the
relevance of this complementary financing to the benefit flows of the pole is even more critical.
The economic analysis here presents the economic return on the IDA contribution to IG2P in
order to maintain consistency and comparability with the PAD methodology. However, the more
appropriate metric in the Fort Dauphin case would be the economic return on total investments
(public and private). Since the present value of these combined public and private costs would be
considerably higher, the economic rate of return would be significantly lower.




                                                                          69
Overall project

Combining the costs and benefits across the three regional poles, the total ERR of IG2P at the
time of the ICR is estimated at 9.3 percent. This is lower than both the 14.5 percent projected at
the time of the PAD and the more optimistic 20.2 percent estimated during the mid-term review
in 2008—right before the crisis hit when project performance was on an upswing and many
assumptions were upgraded. More importantly, it is also below the 10 percent cut-off discount
rate, implying a negative overall NPV for IG2P, consistent with the fact that two of the regional
poles (Antananarivo-Antsirabe and Nosy Be) significantly underperformed initial expectations,
and only one (Fort Dauphin) delivered an ERR above the assumed 10 percent cost of capital.
Even if the most poorly-performing pole (Antananarivo-Antsirabe) is excluded from the
aggregate calculation (given its ultimate cancellation and small share of final project costs), the
total ERR is still only 9.6 percent, below the 10 percent cut-off.

Summary of project benefits and costs 
                                               PAD                                            ICR
                             Antananarivo‐             Fort             Antananarivo‐                 Fort 
Flows ($US million, PV)        Antsirabe   Nosy Be   Dauphin   TOTAL      Antsirabe   Nosy Be       Dauphin   TOTAL
Benefits                         15.7       77.6       85.1     178.4        0.0       41.1           69.5    110.6
  Tourism                          ─        77.6       28.6     106.2         ─        38.6           23.5     62.0
  Agriculture  and fishing         ─          ─        18.2     18.2          ─         2.6           15.4     17.9
  Mining                           ─          ─        38.3     38.3          ─          ─            30.6     30.6
  Textile/ICT rent               15.7        ─          ─       15.7         0.0         ─             ─       0.0

Costs                            14.9       45.2      71.9     131.9        5.3        49.1          61.7     116.2

Net benefits                     0.8       32.4       13.2     46.4         ‐5.3       ‐8.0           7.7     ‐5.6
ERR                             10.5%      17.9%      12.9%    14.5%      Negative     7.7%          12.0%    9.3%




                                                       70
ANNEX 4: BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT

(a) Task team members

                                                                        Responsibility/
             Name                       Title               Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Ivan Rossignol             Chief Technical Specialist   GTCDR     Task Team Leader
Ganesh Rasagam             Practice Manager             GTCDR
Iain Christie              Consultant                   AFTPS-HIS
Patrice Joachim Nirina     Senior Municipal Engineer    GSURR
Rakotoniaina
Tamara Lansky              Senior Investment Officer       CGFTG-HIS
Jean-Christophe Carret     Program Leader                  AFCC2
Luc Vaillancourt           Operations Officer              CFSMN-HIS
Jan-Hendrick Van Leuwen    Consultant                      IFC
Bertrand Loiseau           Consultant                      AFTEG
Irene Xenakis              Operations Adviser              AFTOS-HIS
Alain Labeau               Lead Specialist                 AFTTR-HIS
Susanne Holste             Lead Social Development         GSURR
                           Specialist
Laurent Besancon           Manager                         LLILD
Charlotte Bingham          Lead Environmental Specialist ESDQC-HIS
Gervais Rakotoarimanana    Senior FMS Specialist           AFTFM-HIS
Amadou Konare              Senior Environmental Specialist AFTSD-HIS
Josiane V. Raveloarison    Senior Private Sector           AFTPS-HIS
                           Development Specialist
Robert Robelus             Senior Environmental Specialist AFTS1-HIS
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson Senior Procurement Specialist GGODR
Irene Chacon               Operations Analyst              AFTPS-HIS
Gordon Appleby             Consultant                      AFTSD-HIS
Linda Cotton               Consultant                      AFTPS-HIS
Alejandro Alvarez          Research Analyst                CSMSE-HIS
Thomas E. Walton           Consultant                      GENDR
Paulo De Sa                Practice Manager                GEEDR
Marc H. Juhel              Lead Port Specialist            TUDTR-HIS
Stephane Garnier           Power Engineer                  AFTEG-HIS
Jean Charles de Daruvar    Senior Counsel                  LEGAF
Gilles Marie Veuillot      Counsel                         LEGAF-HIS
Supervision/ICR
Ganesh Rasagam             Practice Manager                GTCDR     Task Team Leader
                                                                     (2005-2011)
Michael Olavi Engman       Senior Economist                GTCDR     Task Team Leader
                                                                     (2012-2014)

                                         71
Eneida Fernandes Mateev      Senior Private Sector            GTCDR
                             Development Specialist
Noro Aina Andriamihaja       Senior Financial Specialist       GFMDR
Johanne Buba                 Economist                         GTCDR
Ellena Rabeson               Operations Officer                AFMMG
Jyoti Bisbey                 Infrastructure Finance Special    GCPDR
Lova Niaina Ravaoarimino     Senior Procurement Specialist     GGODR
Francois Marie Maurice       Senior Financial Management
Rakotoarimanana              Specialist
Vonjy Miarintsoa             Senior Energy Specialist          GEEDR
Rakotondramanana
Noroarisoa Rabefaniraka        Senior Transport Specialist     GTIDR
Monica Patricia Rivero Riveros Program Assistant               GTCDR
Sarah Keener                   Senior Social Development       GSURR
                               Specialist
Joshua Seth Wimpey             Private Sector Development      DECEA
                               Specialist
Tugba Gurcanlar                Trade Specialist                GTCDR
Slaheddine Ben-Halima          Senior Procurement Specialist
Christophe Prevost             Senior Water & Sanitation       GWADR
                               Specialist
Nikola Kojucharov              Economist                       GTCDR   ICR Team Leader
Yacouba Konate                 Social Development Specialist GSURR
Mohammed A. Bekhechi           Consultant                      GSURR
Adam Schwartzman               Special Assistant to Vice       GCSVP
                               President
Paul-Jean Feno                 Senior Environmental Specialist GENDR
Tojoarofenitra                 Transport Specialist            GTIDR
Ramanankirahina
Eavan O'Halloran               Country Program Coordinator ECCU3
Harisoa Danielle               Senior Education Specialist     GEDDR
Rasolonjatovo Andriamiham
Jade Elena Garza Ndiaye        Operations Analyst              GTCDR
Korotoumou Ouattara            Senior Financial Economist      GFMDR
Wilfrid Bernard Drum           Consultant                      GFMDR
Karuna Ramakrishnan            Finance and Private Sector      GTCDR
                               Development Specialist
Steven R. Dimitriyev           Senior Private Sector           GTCDR
                               Development Specialist
Hajarivony Andriamarofara      Consultant                      GGODR
Alain W. D'Hoore               Senior Economist                GMFDR
Rogati Anael Kayani            Consultant                      GGODR
Adriana Florez                 Procurement Analyst             GGODR
Africa Eshogba Olojoba         Lead Environmental Specialist GENDR
                                            72
(b) Staff time and costs

                                        Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
    Stage of project cycle                                      USD thousand (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY04                                 36.75                            236.50
   FY05                                 73.14                            411.57
                           Total        109.89                           648.07

Supervision/ICR
   FY06                                 90.02                            349.16
   FY07                                 85.11                            276.46
   FY08                                 89.71                            355.37
   FY09                                 41.35                            145.76
   FY10                                 27.26                            180.76
   FY11                                 19.33                            106.47
   FY12                                 37.60                            128.56
   FY13                                 32.30                            195.38
   FY14                                 44.19                            171.06
   FY15                                 59.60                            235.11
                           Total        526.47                         2,114.08




                                           73
ANNEX 5: BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

A series of roundtable discussions and workshops with project stakeholders and beneficiaries
was organized during the December 2014 ICR mission to allow these groups to share their views
on the project’s achievements, shortcomings, and lessons learned. The groups consulted during
the workshops included: recipients of business development services (BDS) in Fort Dauphin and
Nosy Be; representatives of key private sector associations in Antananarivo and Fort Dauphin;
private and public representatives from the tourism industry in Nosy Be; staff of the Fort
Dauphin municipal government; and farmers in Ifarantsa and Mandiso villages along the RIP118
near Fort Dauphin.
Private sector associations and representatives

Antananarivo:

The roundtable discussion included representatives from RCL Conseil, the Federation of
Chambers of Industry and Commerce, the Syndicate of Industries, and the Groupement du
Patronat Malagasy, and focused on the impacts and effectiveness of IG2P’s cross-cutting
business environment component (Component A). All participants commended the partial credit
guarantee scheme (PCGS) sponsored by the project, and the importance of relieving access to
finance constraints in the regional poles to promote growth. In retrospect, however, they
lamented the timing of the scheme, as the outbreak of political and economic crisis shortly after
the end of PCGS’ ramp-up period undid many of the gains in SMEs improved access to finance:
default rates for borrowers spiked and collateral values plummeted. The recovery since has been
slow and participants’ sentiment was that access to finance remains an acute constraint. Part of
this is because the PCGS was a one-off intervention and there has yet to be a permanent facility
to continue its legacy. Nonetheless, participants recognized the usefulness of IG2P in training
commercial bank staff to manage MSME loan operations and assess credit risk. With regards to
IG2P’s MSME training activities, participants’ sentiment was positive although they emphasized
the importance of following up with firms to see how they are performing and what additional
support they might need.

Fort Dauphin:

Participants included the owners of several high-end hotels, the head of a local microcredit
institution, and representatives from the new private company set to operate the local landfill site
and from the local chamber of commerce. The objective was to solicit views regarding the
project’s integrated interventions in Fort Dauphin (component D), and the extent to which
observable changes in the local private sector since 2005 were attributable to QMM rather than
IG2P. Most participants agreed that QMM’s operations were the key engine of growth in Fort
Dauphin—creating demand for jobs and trainings, as well as for business tourism—but that this
demand could not have been captured and serviced without IG2P support. Most of the
commentary, however, focused less on past achievements of IG2P in Fort Dauphin, and more on
what still needs to be done going forward. In this context, the key concern was that it would be
difficult for the local government to maintain the various infrastructure that the project helped to
put in place. Criticisms emerged that IG2P did not place sufficient focus on promoting and
developing Ehoala Park, which participants viewed as the key vehicle for Fort Dauphin’s future
growth and job creation. Factors cited as continuing to deter investors in Ehoala Park include:
                                                74
security concerns, political instability, land disputes between the local government and QMM,
and the lack of a clear vision and strategy for the Park.

Recipients of Business development services in Fort Dauphin

The roundtable included staff of CARA and CGA and a group of current and former
beneficiaries of training and BDS from these two institutions, with the discussion focusing on the
MSME capacity building component of IG2P (Component A2). The key message from
participants was that IG2P was crucial in bridging the gap between the labor demanded by QMM
in Fort Dauphin and the scarce supply of local workers with the desired skills. Beyond this,
however, they felt that the project helped to promote an entrepreneurial culture that did not
previously exist in Fort Dauphin and in the broader Anosy region, especially among young
people who largely defaulted to working in their family businesses. They believe that this culture
shift will truly be the lasting impact of the project, even if the various investments in water
supply, waste management, roads, etc. cannot ultimately be maintained.

Staff of Fort Dauphin Municipality
The municipal staff consulted represented a variety of departments, including revenue and land
management, donor coordination, licensing, and general administration. The objective was to
understand the impacts of IG2Ps technical assistance and other financial support to the
municipality (component D3). Representatives highlighted the computerization of municipal
functions as the key transformation supported by the project (through provision of software and
training). It has been instrumental in improving record keeping, data collection and processing,
and resource mobilization and management, thus helping the government to advance its rapid-
results program, which aims to: (1) improve property tax collection; (2) streamline construction
permit and licensing procedures; (3) develop new sources of revenue (such as public property
rental fees), and (4) boost customs revenue (which is ultimately earmarked for road and
infrastructure maintenance). They also noted that local communities have been particularly
pleased with the introduction of participatory budgeting, which IG2P supported by training
regional delegates, organizing and hosting workshops, and providing necessary equipment and
furniture. In addition, participants were thankful for the rehabilitation of their office buildings
that IG2P financed, claiming it has greatly improved the quality and safety of their working
environment.

Farmers and village communities along RIP118

Two roundtables were organized: one with local community leaders and in Ifarantsa village, and
another with a group of 12 pink pepper farmers in Mandiso village. The goal was to solicit views
regarding the effectiveness of IG2P’s agribusiness support in the Anosy region and the impacts
of the project’s rehabilitation of the RIP118. In Ifarantsa, participants identified four key benefits
from the improved road: (i) a reduction in the price of staple goods transported from Fort
Dauphin; (ii) expanded consumption possibilities (due to more people being able to travel to Fort
Dauphin and shop there); (iii) improved education opportunities since children can now
commute back and forth to schools in Fort Dauphin within a reasonable time; and (iv) improved
market access for local producers. One participant estimated that the latter benefit in particular
has been a key factor behind the near doubling of the average monthly household income in
Ifaranstsa (from 80,000 Ariary to 140,000) over the project period. In Mandiso, participants
highlighted IG2P’s training programs in crop planting and rural entrepreneurship (e.g.
                                                 75
accounting skills, business plans, demand analysis, agriculture strategies, etc.) as being critical to
their business development. They also noted that, without the 21 new pink pepper plants that
IG2P supplied, they could not have scaled up production on their own. Prior to this assistance the
village was only growing rice, so the project helped to diversify the local agricultural base,
although this has come with the tradeoff of having to reduce rice production due the limited
cultivated land.

Tourism industry representatives in Nosy Be

The roundtable consisted of representatives from the Nosy Be tourism office and the
Interprofessional Group for Tourism, the owner of a local 4-star hotel, and several tour operators.
Discussions centered around the effectiveness of IG2P in stimulating tourism activity on the
island beyond what was already happening without the project. In this regard, the consensus was
that the infrastructure and training provided by IG2P certainly put the tourism sector on a higher
trajectory. However, the complaint was that the full potential of the project was not realized
because the government did not do its part in reforming air access policies and strengthening the
health care system, two factors which were identified as the key binding constraints to tourism
growth. There were also concerns that the hospitality and tourism services training administered
by IG2P (for hotel employees, boat captains, etc.) could not be sustained without continued
external support. As far as shortcomings in project-specific activities, the panel of participants
unanimously criticized the matching grant scheme (PARC) as having had overly-burdensome
documentation requirements, which made it unappealing for many intended beneficiaries and
thus reduced its potential reach and effectiveness.




                                                 76
    ANNEX 6: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND OUTCOME INDICATORS

Project Development Objective: To increase business and formal job creation in particular in the mining, tourism and agribusiness sectors in the Nosy Be and 
Taolagnaro regions. 
                                                                                                      Original target values                      New                     Original target values 
                                                                                                          Actual results                         Baseline                 Revised target values 
                                                                           Baseline 
                                                             Unit of                                                                                                          Actual results 
PDO LEVEL RESULTS INDICATORS                                 Measure 
                                                                                
                                                                            2005 
                                                                                       2006     2007         2008          2009         2010      2011            2012             2013             2014 

                                                                                                                                 
1: Number of businesses registered in the regional poles: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                             1,700         1,800        1,900     2,000           2,100
Antananarivo‐Antsirabe (Dropped in 2012)                         No.        1703                                                                                      
                                                                                       1,610    1,630        1,955         2,091        2,227     3,188           4,362                                
                                                                                                              450          500          550        600             650 
Nosy Be                                                          No.         400                                                                                  1,600           1,700             1,800 
                                                                                       400      352           430          563          740       1,517           1,933           2,420             2,957 
                                                                                                              250          300          350        400             450 
Fort Dauphin                                                     No.         82                                                                                   1,400           1,550             1,700 
                                                                                        82      171           200          539          802       1,268           1,603           2,138             2,514 
                                                                                                                                 
2:Number of formal jobs in the regional poles:                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                             2,100         3,000        4,300     5,000           5,000
Antananarivo‐Antsirabe (Dropped in 2012)                         No.         850                                                                                                                       
                                                                                        970     1,035        1,908         2,583        3,429     4,164           5,361                                
                                                                                                             2,500         5,550        6,000     6,300           6,500                                 
                                                                            1,400 
Nosy Be                                                          No.                                                                                              4,900           5,300             5,700 
                                                                                
                                                                                       1,800    2,100        2,817         3,360        3,836     4,631           5,005           5,700             6,948 
                                                                                                             3,500         4,200        4,600     4,800           5,000                                 
                                                                            1,015 
Fort Dauphin                                                     No.                                                                                              7,600           7,900             8,200 
                                                                                
                                                                                       1,500    3,200        4,916         5,524        6,222     7,343           7,560           8,758             9,385 
                                                                              0                                                                                  205,600         211,350       217,300 
3. Direct project beneficiaries (added in 2012)                  No. 
                                                                                                                                                 200,000         205,600         211,530       220,199 
                                                                              0                                                                                   50.6             50.6             50.6 
    of which female                                               %                                                                                50.6 
                                                                                                                                                                  50.6             50.6             50.6 
                                                                Million                                      1,100         1,200        1,300     1,400           1,500               
4. Annual private investment flows (dropped in 2012)                          87                                                                                                                       
                                                                 US$                    313     1,045        1,180         1,295         808       809             812                


                                                                                                77
5: Volume of cargo shipped through:                                                                                                                                                    

                                                                                                                2.6                3.2 million
                                                                                                               million 
5.1. Tamatave port (dropped in 2007)                            Tons          2 million                 ─                                                                              
                                                                                            2.4 
                                                                                           million 
                                                                                                                                     8,800 
5.2. Ivato airport (dropped in 2007)                            Tons           7,341                                                                                                   
                                                                                           7,535      6,266 

INTERMEDIATE RESULTS 

Intermediate Result (Component A): Strengthening the business environment 

1:   Partial Credit Guarantee Scheme (GPP) (closed in 2008)                                                                                                                      
1.1 Value of new loans disbursed to MSMEs by                   Million                                22.3      25.1 
                                                                                  0           ─                             ─          ─           ─        ─            ─            ─ 
    participating banks through the GPP                         US$                                   18.2      26.7 
1.2. Number of new loans disbursed by participating                                                    390      439 
                                                                No.               0           ─                             ─          ─           ─        ─            ─            ─ 
     banks through the GPP                                                                            1,004    1,878 

2:    Days required to start a business                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                              5         5         4         4          4           3        3 
Capital                                                         Days             21                                                                         4            3            3 
                                                                                              7         5         4         4          4           4        7            7            8 
                                                                                            >30       >30        15        15           7          7        7             
Regions                                                         Days            >30                                                                         7            7            7 
                                                                                            >30       >30        25        25          25          7        7            7            7 
                                                                                                      250       300        500        700         800      900                          
3: Number of individual recipients of subsidized BDS                              0 
                                                                No.                           ─                                                           2,167        2,500        2,600 
    services                                                                        
                                                                                                      207      1,730      2,030      2,167       2,167    3,374        4,567        5,252 
                                                                                              0         0         0         2          7          15       15                         
4: Annual sales value of assisted firms in selected                               0 
                                                                 %                                                                                         5            10          15 
    value chains (cum.’(‐)                                                          
                                                                                              0         0         0         ─          ─          0        29           89          N.A 
                                                                                 No                    Yes                                          
PDO 3.1: EDBM is fully staffed and operational                 Yes/No                                                                                                                  
                                                                                   
                                                                                 No         Yes                                                     
PDO 3.2: Adoption of regional development plans                Yes/No                                                                                                                  
                                                                                   
PDO 4: Adoption by National Assembly of a new                                    No                    Yes                                          
                                                               Yes/No                                                                                                                  
   Investment Law and amended Free Zone law                                        



                                                                                                      78
Intermediate Result (Component B): Export led growth in Antananarivo‐Antsirabe 

1. Number of workers trained in the textile industry                                100       150       200       350       550       800       900 
                                                            No.            0                                                                                               
    (cumulative) (dropped in 2012)                                                  150       213       257       285       313       313       313 
2. Volume of products handled in the agro techno                                                        100       200       300       400       500 
                                                            Tons           0         ─         ─                                                                      
    pole (dropped in 2012)                                                                                                                        
3. Percent of regional MAP activities supported by the                                                   50        70        90        95       100 
                                                             %             0         ─         ─                                                                      
    project completed (dropped in 2012)                                                                                                           

Intermediate Result (Component C): Tourism led growth in Nosy Be 

                                                                                   35,000    37,500    68,376    70,000    78,376    80,000    85,000                   
                                                                         39,376 
1.1: Number of tourist arrivals by air or sea per annum     No.                                                                                68,000    72,000     76,000 
                                                                             
                                                                                   42,353    42,392    59,133    43,894    62,786    65,187    62,950    58,454     64,502 
                                                                                   2,000     2,250     3,300     4,500     5,300     5,600     5,900                    
1.2: Number of formal and direct tourism related jobs                    1,386 
                                                            No.                                                                                2,950      3,200     3,500 
    in Nosy Be                                                               
                                                                                   1,519     1,718     2,015     2,622     2,687     2,752     2,963      3,220     3,701 
                                                                                     15        20        30        40        50        60        70                     
                                                                           0 
1.3: Increase in hotel rooms (cumulative)                    %                                                                                   85         95       105 
                                                                             
                                                                                     15        20        20        31        43        78       104        113       128 
                                                                                    8,400    17,000    24,500    34,000    43,300    46,375                             
2.1: People provided with access to “Improved Water 
                                                            No.          8,010                                                                 49,700    63,900     65,800 
    Sources” under the project 
                                                                                   12,089    20,532    25,062    28,025    31,193    41,100    47,690    51,440     68,520 

2.2: Roads rehabilitated                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                           0                                                                    11.2      14.6       14.6 
      Urban                                                 km 
                                                                                     0         0        9.1       9.1       9.1       9.2       12.7      14.2       15.0 
                                                                           0                                                                    42.3      43.3       44.8 
        Rural                                               km 
                                                                                     0         0        35.1      35.1      35.1      39.8      39.8      45.3       45.3 
2.3: Completion of upgrading works of Hellville and                       No                                                                     ‐         Yes        ‐ 
                                                           Yes/No 
    Ankify ports                                                                    No        No        No        No        No        No        No       ongoing     YES 
                                                                                     45        30        32        25        25        20        20                         
2.4: Time required to issue a construction permit by                       50 
                                                            Days                                                                                 40           35         30 
    the municipality of Nosy Be                                              
                                                                                     40        30        30        40        45        45        10            7          7 
                                                                                     20        30        40        50        80       120       150                     
                                                                           0 
2.5: Value of additional Municipal revenue generated         %                                                                                   85       100        125 
                                                                             
                                                                                     30        35        98        41        56        75        25       92.1      132.2 


                                                                                             79
2.6: Additional generation capacity installed –                                 0                                                                    5.9       6.7       7.6 
                                                               MW 
    conventional (added in 2012)                                                                                                           5.1       5.1       5.1       9.0 

2.7: Existing electricity networks rehabilitated (added in 2012)                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                              Km of                                                                 
        Constructed                                         distributio         ‐                                                           0         4         46       46 
                                                              n lines                                                                                 0        27.0     29.72 
                                                              Km of                                                                 
        Rehabilitated                                       distributio         ‐                                                           0         0        27        27 
                                                              n lines                                                                                 0        5.1      68.69 
2.8: People in urban areas provided with access to                                                                                                  66,700    68,700    70,700 
    regular solid waste collection under the project           No.            25,450 
    (added in 2012)                                                                                                                       58,735    66,180    68,882    75,573 

2.9: Percent of regional MAP activities supported by                                                          40        70        90        95       100 
                                                                %               0         ─                                                                                 
    the project completed (dropped in 2012)                                                         15                                                 

Intermediate Result (Component D): Mining and Tourism led growth in Tolagnaro 

                                                                                        13,500    15,000    20,000    25,000    31,000    35,000    45,000                  
1.1: Number of tourist arrivals in Taolagnaro per                             13,011 
                                                               No.                                                                                  25,000    27,500    30,000 
    annum                                                                         
                                                                                        14,838    18,329    19,958    11,855    14,688    22,300    26,690    25,668    33,330 
                                                                                         250       350       800      1,000     1,600     1,700     1,800                   
1.2: Number of formal and direct tourism related jobs                          111 
                                                               No.                                                                                  1,820     1,920     2,000 
    in Taolagnaro (cumulative)                                                    
                                                                                         239       243       693      1,195     1,694     1,759     1,811     1,847     1,880 
                                                                                          10        15        20        20        25        30        35                    
                                                                                0 
1.3: Increase in hotel rooms (cumulative)                       %                                                                                     97        97       100 
                                                                                  
                                                                                          15        20        67        90        98        97       103       103       103 
                                                                                        26,500    30,500    35,500    40,500    47,500    47,500                            
2.1: People provided with access to “Improved Water 
                                                               No.            24,635                                                                58,900    61,150    63,400 
    Sources” under the project 
                                                                                        28,060    40,880    41,560    42,070    42,620    56,360    57,270    61,080    64,830 
2.2: Roads rehabilitated                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                0                                                                     24       30.8      30.8 
       Urban                                                    Km 
                                                                                          0         0        4.5       7.9       7.9       12.2      24.8      25.4      31.1 
                                                                                0                                                                     67        92        92 
       Rural                                                    km 
                                                                                          0         0         0         0         67        67        67        67       92.5 
                                                                                          30        23        18        17        15        15        15                    
2.3: Time required to issue a construction permit by 
                                                               Days             42                                                                    40        35        30 
    the Municipality of Taolagnaro 
                                                                                          25        20        20        30        45        45        25        20        17 



                                                                                                  80
                                                                                         20       30       60      120      180       300       300                    
                                                                                ‐ 
2.4: Value of additional Municipal revenue generated            %                                                                               475       525       575 
                                                                                  
                                                                                         40       50      540      216      313       432       571      658.5      568 
2.5: Additional generation capacity installed –                                 0                                                               23.7      23.7      23.7 
                                                               MW 
    conventional (added in 2012)                                                                                                      23.7      23.7      23.7      23.7 

2.6: Existing electricity networks rehabilitated (added in 2012)                                                                                                       
                                                              Km of                                                                     
Constructed                                                 distributio         0                                                      0         12        12        12 
                                                              n lines                                                                           13.8      13.8      13.8 
                                                              Km of                                                                     
Rehabilitated                                               distributio         0                                                                87        87        87 
                                                                                                                                       0 
                                                              n lines                                                                           57.8      138       138 
2.7: People in urban areas provided with access to                                                                                             33,140    51,180    61,320 
    regular solid waste collection under the project           No.            13,500 
    (added in 2012)                                                                                                                  23,340    33,679    58,567    68,033 
                                                                                  
                                                                                                                   750      750       750       750                    
                                                               ‘000             0 
3: Volume of traffic handled by Ehoala Port                                                                                                     600       675       750 
                                                              tonnes              
                                                                                                                   137      352       525       677       648       461 
                                                                                        1,000    3,000    3,900    2,000    2,000    2,000     2,000                   
4: Number of formal jobs in mining, construction, 
                                                               No.             904                                                             2,700     2,900     3,100 
    agribusiness and in Ehoala Park/Port 
                                                                                        2,800    3,750    4,673    2,337    2,334    2,498     2,784     3,700     3,849 




                                                                                                 81
ANNEX 7: Summary of Rio Tinto/QMM’s development impacts in Fort Dauphin

In August 2005, after decades of exploration and scientific assessments of the mineral resources
in the southeast of Madagascar, Rio Tinto finally took the decision to invest in mining extraction
in Fort Dauphin 2005 as part of the IG2P project framework, signing a 40-year concession
agreement with the Government of Madagascar (GoM). The agreement paved the way for
construction of a vast mining facility in the Mandena commune (10km outside of the city of the
Fort Dauphin) and a new multi-use port on the edge of the Ehoala Peninsula that would allow for
the export of up to 750,000 tons of ilmenite annually over the next 40 years. Both the mine and
the Ehoala port would be operated by Rio Tinto’s local subsidiary, QIT Madagascar Minerals
(QMM), which would have 80 percent equity ownership of the venture, with the GoM holding
the remaining 20 percent.

As it the case with many resource extraction projects by large multinational companies around
the world, Rio Tinto’s involvement brought its fair share of concerns over the social and
environmental impacts on the local community and skepticism over the extent to which the
economic benefits would be shared with the citizens of Fort Dauphin (and Madagascar more
broadly). Although not without occasional controversy, the experience thus far has been
generally positive, as Rio Tinto has proven an essential partner to the World Bank and the GoM
in transforming Fort Dauphin from a poor famine-stricken outpost to a budding tourist
destination and a source of significant natural resource revenue for the GoM. Since 2006, Rio
Tinto’s investments and operations have contributed positively to Fort Dauphin’s development
on several economic and social dimensions:

Infrastructure:

   Mining facilities: QMM invested around $675 million in the massive mining facility at
    Mandena, an access road connecting it to the new Ehoala Port, and a residential camp for the
    employees of QMM and their families.

   Ehoala Port: The new deep-water port, with its three berths and two large storage
    warehouses, was completed in 2009 (funded by a $35 million contribution from IG2P and
    $221 million from QMM) and became the new commercial gateway for Fort Dauphin and
    the broader Anosy region, which was previously cut off from key markets for its agricultural
    goods. Since the opening of the port, nearly 2.3 million tons of QMM’s ilmenite have been
    exported, along with over 185,000 tons of Fort Dauphin’s other domestic products, including
    sisal, lychee, fish and lobsters. An unplanned outcome was that the port also opened up Fort
    Dauphin’s tourism industry to cruise ships, and 28,000 tourists have come to Fort Dauphin
    via this mode of transport since 2009.

   Water and power supply: In partnership with JIRAMA, QMM contributed $2 million
    towards the rehabilitation of Fort Dauphin’s aging potable water treatment plant and the
    construction of a new water plant (including a sewage collection system). It also financed the
    construction of 20 water wells throughout Fort Dauphin’s communes. Furthermore, it
    provided another $2 million for the purchase of a new electricity generator for the city, which


                                                82
     has added 3.8MW of electricity supply and helped virtually eliminate blackouts in Fort
     Dauphin.56

    Solid waste management: QMM financed the construction of a new landfill site for Fort
     Dauphin at Ankarefo, which will be operated by a financially independent private company
     beginning in 2015. This site will be crucial in sustaining and expanding the local
     population’s access to solid waste collection services, which has already increased from
     around 23 percent of the local population in 2005 to nearly 100 percent in 2014.

Employment:

    Direct employment: Around 4,500 people were employed by QMM and its contractors
     during the construction phase of the mining facility and Ehoala Port (2006-2008), 61 percent
     of which were Malagasy nationals from the local Anosy region, 22 percent migrant Malagasy
     workers from other parts of the country, and only 17 percent expatriates. This high local
     labor content was achieved through extensive aptitude testing prior to the start of
     construction to screen and identify qualified candidates and compile a database of workers
     from which contractors could hire. After the construction phase, QMM has continued to
     maintain very high levels of local employment, with Malagasy nationals accounting for
     around 97 percent of its permanent staff of 600-700 workers. Moreover, the local staff are
     not limited to low-skill roles: in 2014, 9 Malagasy were promoted to superintendent positions
     previously held by expatriates.

    Indirect and induced jobs: QMM has estimated that its investments and operations have
     helped to create more than 1,000 indirect jobs in the Fort Dauphin region, across multiple
     spheres of economic activity, including catering accommodation and services, building and
     business support services, banking and microfinance, property leasing, and equipment
     supply. The induced employment (i.e. the new jobs created as a result of the increased
     income and spending of the 5,500 workers directly and indirectly employed by QMM during
     the project) is estimated at around 11,000.

Fiscal contributions:

    Mining royalties: Under the concession agreement with the GoM, QMM is required to pay
     annual royalties equivalent to 2 percent of its revenue from ilmenite exports. 30 percent of
     these royalties accrue to the central government, while the other 70 percent are distributed
     among the Fort Dauphin municipality, the Anosy regional government, and the 4 communes
     around QMM’s mining site. Since the start of ilmenite production in 2009, QMM has paid a
     total of $8.2 million in such royalties.



56
   Under the arrangement with JIRAMA, QMM provided advance financing for the purchase of the generator and 
its transportation and installation costs with the agreement that JIRAMA would reimburse this expense over the 
course of 10 years. QMM maintains the facilities and supplies the generator with fuel, but JIRAMA pays for fuel 
costs. In addition, QMM constructed a separate 22.8MW power plant onsite at its mine to provide electricity for its 
mining operations. 

                                                        83
        Other taxes and fees: Since the start of construction of its mine and port facilities in 2006,
         QMM has also been liable for a variety of income and dividend taxes, VAT, customs duties,
         and other administrative fees. In total, these taxes and fees have amounted to roughly $37
         million through 2014.

  Business development initiatives:

        Training and entrepreneurial support. In partnership with IG2P, the Anosy regional
         government, and the local Chamber of Commerce, QMM helped establish the Business
         Center for the Anosy Region (CARA), which aimed to develop entrepreneurial activity in
         Fort Dauphin through various trainings, conferences, trade fairs, open house, contests, etc.
         Since its establishment, CARA has delivered trainings to over 4,317 people, aided in the
         direct creation of 196 small businesses, and has 145 permanent members.

  Social programs:

        To maximize the positive impact of the project on the local community, QMM has also been
         spending several million dollars each year on a variety of social and environmental programs,
         detailed in Table A9 below.

                 Table A9: Rio Tinto’s social development programs and partnerships

Project Category          Details                          Partners                       Local Beneficiaries
HIMO (high intensity     Operations: street-cleaning,      Region, Municipality, PIC,    Ilafitsinana, Ambinanibe,
of workforce)            earth removal, reforestation,     ACT, CARE, Fokontany          Evatraha, Sainte Luce,
Activities with short-   channel cleaning, gardening,                                    Andrakaraka, Ambovo,
term impact for the      market and nursery                                              Tsihary, Esokaka, Mandena…
population)              rehabilitation, Mandena
                         development planning
Health and Sanitation    Drinking water, standpipe and     Municipality, CARE,           Esokaka, county town, rural
Facilities               washery                           JIRAMA, PIC                   municipalities
Education                Implementation of the             Ministry of Education,        Regional population, holders
                         Professional training Institute   Region, CARE, PNUD,           of the Baccalaureate and
                         of Anosy; Creation of the         CISCO, BCS, PIC,              QMM employees
                         Private French High School        Clairefontaine,               Clairefontaine
                         (Clairefontaine); higher          Employment Service FTD
                         education scholarship;
                         Educational facilities
                         rehabilitation High school,
                         CEG, EPP
Health                   Cinemobile, Top Network           CNLS, PSI, USAID,             Urban and suburbs Population,
                         Centre, STI/AIDS prevention       CISCO, Ministry of            Young pupils, project
                                                           Education, Ministry of        employees
                                                           Health
Safety                   Building of a police station,     Urban municipality, Police,   FTD urban municipalities
                         telecommunication equipment       ALF
                         and Moto, support to public
                         and road safety, signalling
                         panels
Migration monitoring     Implementation of a migration     Urban municipality ,          FTD urban municipalities


                                                           84
                         monitoring system Health           Principal areas
                         facilities
Inflation                Inflation monitoring; Storage      Ministry of Trade, Ministry   Region, FTD urban
                         silo rehabilitation business in    of Economy and Finance,       municipality and surrounding
                         rice marketing; Support to         INSTAT, Municipalities,       (Mandromondromotra and
                         market and apiculture culture      Region, DRDR, CARE,           Ampasy Nahampoana)
                         development                        ASOS, USAID,
                                                            AGRISUD, PACT,
                                                            Operators, Village
                                                            Association
Sports and leisure       Katrehaky, Football school;        Tourism, Ministry for         FTD urban municipalities ,
                         Cultural centre; stadium           youth and sports, Ministry    FTD youth, National
                         rehabilitation; Equipment          of Mining, Volley Ball        Volleyball Team
                         allocation to the National         Federation, Colas, Star,
                         Volleyball Team Equipment          celtel, SRSBO, AIR MAD,
                         allocation to the students of      Operators
                         the EPP Amparihy for a
                         national examination
Sustainable              Vetiver production;
                                                            Ministry of fisheries,        People from villages
Management of            Development of the craft
                                                            Region, Municipality,         surrounding Mandena
Natural Resources        industry; Support to fishermen
                                                            Aquaculture Service           Populations surrounding
and promotion of         through the allocation of
                                                            Conseil, Villages             lagoons: Lanirano, AKK,
alternative activities   fishery ground; Fishermen
                                                            Andrakaraka and Evatraha,     Ambavarano. Evatraha…
                         training; Compensation to the
                                                            Mandena management            Population of Ambinanibe,
                         fishermen; Development of
                                                            committee, Fivoy…             Lohalovoka and Ilafitsinana
                         agricultural businesses
Environmental            Monitoring of the ecotourism       Ministry of Environment,      Coastal population and users
Protection and           zone of Mandena;                   Birdlife, WCS, CI,            of Mandena and Ste Luce
Conservation             Materialisation of the limits of   USAID, Jariala, Mandena
                         the Ambatoantsinana                and Ste Luce management
                         conservation zone;                 committee, village
                         Implementation of                  association…
                         conservation zones;
                         Reforestation on 1,000 ha
Support to the           Monetary compensation and          Ministry of Mining,           Resettled population
populations affected     restitution in kind; Houses        Ministry of Finances,         Ilafitsinana PAP's, villagers
by the resettlement      rehabilitation; PAP's Support      Ministry of Public Works,     from Lohalovoka and
scheme (PAP’s)           measures                           Municipality, Region,         Ambinanibe
                                                            World Bank, PIC, ACT,
                                                            FAFAFI, Hai tsinjo
Water and Electricity    Water and electricity supply       Ministry of Energy,           FTD urban municipality
                         for the town of FTD:               JIRAMA, World Bank,
                         construction of a new water        PIC
                         treatment and pumping plant;
                         Energy supply of 3,8 MGW
                         for the town of Fort Dauphin
  Source: Rio Tinto, “Results and Perspectives of Ilmenite Project in Fort Dauphin”, Information Report, 2009.




                                                            85
ANNEX 8: SUMMARY OF BORROWER’S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT
ICR

The Borrower’s ICR—Evaluation du Projet Pôles lntégrés de Croissance 1 (PIC1)—was
prepared by the Ministry of Finance and Budget in March 2015 and formally submitted to the
Bank on April 23, 2015. The report was accompanied by an evaluation sheet rating the project
along the three key dimensions used in this ICR (relevance, efficacy, and efficiency), including
an assessment of the project’s value added to its targeted local communities.

The report presents an accurate overview of project objectives and components, broadly in line
with this ICR’s presentation. It notes the innovativeness of the project design and the importance
of its integrated multi-dimensional approach, which helped promote growth in the high-potential
sectors (tourism, mining, and agribusiness) of the targeted regional poles. It also highlights the
project’s role in establishing Madagascar’s first large-scale Public-Private Partnership (PPP) for
the construction of Ehoala Port.

For each project component except component B (the Antananarivo-Antsirabe pole, dropped in
2012), the report itemizes original and actual costs, the main elements of project support, and
outcomes. These highlights are not repeated here because they are in line with the presentation of
project components in this ICR (Main Text and Annex 2). Based on project and program data
supplied by the PIU, the Borrower’s report also provides an annotated table of actual data
outturns (as of December 2014) against the revised targets for each key performance indicator.
Again, because the same outcome data was used in the ICR and documented in detail in the main
text and in Annexes 2 and 6, it will not be repeated here. This report does not comment on
compliance with social and environmental safeguards, procurement, or financial management.

In terms of the three key ICR evaluation criteria:

   Relevance: the report rates the project as highly satisfactory on this front, stating only that
    works in regions that were selected on the basis of their “high potentialities,” supporting
    promising sectors such as tourism, mining, and agribusiness.

   Efficacy: the report gives a highly satisfactory rating, highlighting the creation of various
    MSME support structures and the construction and rehabilitation of critical infrastructure. It
    cites these as contributing to the seven-fold increase in formal enterprises and five-fold
    increase in formal jobs in Nosy Be, and the thirty-fold increase in formal enterprises and
    nine-fold increase in formal jobs in Fort Dauphin.

   Efficiency: the report gives a satisfactory rating. No other justification is given other than
    that the project succeeded in committing 99 percent of its allocated funds and disbursing 95
    percent.
The report also rates the project’s “community value added” as satisfactory, highlighting the high
number of individuals that benefitted from the project’s various entrepreneurship trainings,
helping to boost their productivity and incomes, particularly in agribusiness. It also notes the


                                                86
success of the project’s matching grant scheme (PARC) in generating 161 permanent jobs and
improving the annual turnover of participating MSMEs.
The Borrower’s ICR concludes by stating that the project’s objectives have been achieved, as
evidenced by the improved living conditions of local communities, the jobs created in targeted
sectors, and the increased revenues of municipalities in Nosy Be and Fort Dauphin. In this spirit,
the report welcomes the World Bank’s follow-on Second Integrated Growth Poles and Corridors
Project (PIC2) and its expansion of similar activities to other regions of Madagascar.




                                               87
ANNEX 9: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

Care International and Projet Pôles Intégrés de Croissance (PIC), “Projet d’appui aux
producteurs pour le développement de lágriculture contractuelle,” presentation to the World
Bank ICR mission, December 2014.

Gelb, A., Ramachandran, V., Rossignol, I., and G. Tata, “When Agglomeration Theory Meets
Development Reality: Preliminary Lessons from Twenty World Bank Private Sector Projects,”
Center for Global Development, February 2015.

Koivisto, M. and J. Speakman, “Growth Poles: Raising Competitiveness and Deepening
Regional Integration,” The Africa Competitiveness Report 2013, 2013.

Habiyarimana, J. “Impact Assessment of the Madagascar Growth Poles Project,” Preliminary
Report, May 2015.

International Advisory Panel, “Report of the International Advisory Panel: Integrated Growth
Poles Project,” various years (2011, 2012, and 2014)”.

QIT Madagascar Minerals SA (QMM), “Rapport du Développement Durable”, various years
(2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013).

QIT Madagascar Minerals SA (QMM), Annual financial statements, various years (2009, 2010,
2011, 2012, 2013)

Ratsimiahy, H., “Evaluation du programme d’appui au renforcement des capacités (PARC),”
Projet Pôles Intégrés de Croissance (PIC), December 2014.

Rio Tinto, “Tracking Development: A Collection of QIT Madagascar Minerals’ (QMM)
Socioeconomic Contributions,” December 2011.

Rokotovao, A. “Evaluation économique à miparcours du Projet Pôles Intégrés de Croissance,”
Projet Pôles Intégrés de Croissance (PIC), May 2008.

Rakotoarison T., “Smart Lessons,” Working papers, June 2014.

World Bank, “Madagascar: Back to the future and on the road to sustained and balanced
growth,” Country Economic Memorandum, Volume 1, December 2008.

World Bank, Second Madagascar Integrated Growth Poles and Corridors Project (PIC2), Project
Appraisal Document, November 2014.




                                               88
89
