Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2317 
Operation Name 
BI-Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General Public Administration Sector (75%); Economic policy (25%) 
Project ID 
P091475 
Borrower(s) 
BURUNDI MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 14, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 15, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Burundi has emerged from a cycle of politico-ethnic conflicts in August 2000 with the signature by most of 
the parties involved in the conflict of the Arusha peace agreement. The political transition as disposed in the 
Arusha agreement has now been completed. A post-transition constitution has been overwhelmingly 
approved by a national referendum in February 2005. Communal and parliamentary elections were held in 
June and July. The President was elected by the Parliament on August 19, 2005. The post-transition 
Government took office on September 1, 2005. 
 
Within a difficult political environment, and starting from dire economic and social conditions, Burundi has 
made good initial progress in stabilizing the economy, implementing financial and structural reforms, and 
beginning to restore social services. Based on sound macroeconomic policies and progress in reforming the 
economy, external financial aid has resumed and culminated with Burundi being granted access to debt 
relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative in August 2005. 
 
Notwithstanding the encouraging recent progress in stabilizing the macroeconomic environment, Burundi 
faces significant challenges in igniting sustained high broad-based economic growth that can achieve 
poverty reduction. Addressing such challenge would require major structural reforms as regards the public 
sector per se, the development of exports, and the environment for private sector investment. 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG), an integral part of the Bank's Interim Strategy (ISN), is to 
support the transition to economic recovery and the implementation of the Government's reform program 
over the 2005-
06
period. In addition to supporting ongoing Government’s efforts for economic and social 
recovery, the proposed ERSG will support a number of policy and institutional reforms to consolidate the 
progress made under the previous Bank’s operations, build the base for economic diversification, sustained 
growth and poverty reduction. The proposed ERSG would focus on the following long-term development 
objectives: 
·
Improving public expenditure management and their impact on the poor; 
·
Reforming agricultural export sectors (coffee, tea and cotton); and 
·
Reviving the private sector by improving the investment climate, accelerating State divestiture; and 
settling the government domestic arrears to the private sector. 
 
The proposed operation is expected to help the implementation of the Government’s poverty reduction 
program by: (i) making more resource available to finance the PRSP priorities and achieve the 
Government’s poverty reduction objectives through improvement in the management of scarce public 
resources. In particular, it is expected to translate into improved services for the poor and into improved 
well being of the population; (ii) increasing income-generating activities and employment opportunities 
Page  2
(private sector development and State disengagement) and producers’ income (coffee, tea, and cotton sector 
reforms) that are also expected to translate into poverty reduction and improved well-being for the 
population concerned 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The reform program to be supported by the ERSG focuses on assisting Burundi in: (i) addressing short-term 
weaknesses in particular in the area of public expenditure management and (ii) deepening and extending its 
economic structural reform agenda in a credible and sustainable manner. It proposes to: (i) consolidate 
reforms already underway (measures to accompany the 2005 liberalization of coffee sector; revise the legal 
and regulatory framework for private sector); (ii) deepen reforms (public expenditure management); (iii) 
refine the implementation action plans for reform strategies already adopted by the Government (tea and 
cotton sector reforms); and (iv) move to the implementation phase (public financial management reform 
agenda as agreed under the 2004 CFAA action plan). In addition, it also aims at reviving the reform agenda 
which were not given priority during the political transition (public enterprise reform and State divestiture) 
and initiate diagnostic work in areas where action is needed but knowledge is too limited to design a 
meaningful reform program (financial sector and investment climate). 
 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
 
The proposed development policy grant supports mostly economic governance reforms that are unlikely to 
have a significant direct environmental impact. The potential adverse environmental and social effects 
associated with the proposed ERSG are mainly related to the coffee, tea, and cotton sector reforms and the 
privatization program. Such effects are expected to be modest and reversible through appropriate mitigation 
actions. Moreover, activities related to these reforms to be undertaken under the 2006 ERSG program are 
part of broader programs whose activities span over the medium-term and may be also supported by IDA 
follow-up DPLs. 
 
Although Burundi has developed and put in place an adequate institutional and regulatory framework for 
environment management, technical and institutional capacity would quite significant strengthening to 
support the implementation of the measures needed to ensure compliance with its own Environment Code. 
 
5. Tentative 
Financing 
 
The grant would be disbursed in two tranches, of which the first ($35 million equivalent) would be released 
upon effectiveness (first half of 2006) and the second ($25 million equivalent), in the second half of 2006, 
following the satisfactory fulfillment of a limited number of specific conditionality set at end of June 2006 
and providing that macroeconomic performance continues to be satisfactory. Both tranches would support 
the 2006 budget. 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
Total 
60 
60 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Claude Leroy-Themeze 
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: 202-458-5726 
Fax: 202-473-8466 
Email: cleroy@worldbank.org
 
