Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H249-BU 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Economic Reform Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 24, 2006 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H249-BU 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated August 24, 2006, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
BURUNDI (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide  
this financing on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already  
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.B of the Schedule to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to forty million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,400,000
)
(“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 31 and September 30 in each year.
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
Page  3
2
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this  
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
A
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
The Recipient has recruited an auditor, with qualifications, experience and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of the carrying out of an 
audit of the Recipient’s June 2006 sale of a presidential aircraft to Delaware 
Corporation. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
 
Facsimile: 
 
257-22-38-27 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  5
4
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By /s/ Antoine Ntamobwa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
 
Program include the following:
 
1. 
Establishment of an interim integrated computerized financial management 
system, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and execution, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the 
Recipient
’s 2006 budget on the basis of such system. 
2. 
Adoption of an emergency action plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, for purposes of improvement of competition and transparency in 
public procurement. 
3. 
Submission to the National Assembly of the Recipient’s draft 2006 budget law 
reflecting an increase, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in 
the proportion of public expenditure on pro-poor programs relative to total public 
expenditure, as compared with the Recipient’s 2005 budget law. 
4. 
Identification of pro-poor expenditure programs, including under the Debt 
Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, as reflected, in form 
 
and substance satisfactory to the Association, in the Recipient’s 2006 budget  
law, and tracked, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, under the 
Recipient’s budget and accounts classification system.  
5. 
Enactment of a new insolvency law, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
6. 
Enactment of a law, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
relating to the liberalization of prices in the Recipient’s coffee sector, including 
producer-price setting and marketing. 
7. 
Brought, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, to the point of 
sale: (i) all of the Recipient’s shares in 
Aliment Composé Vitaminés
 (Mixed 
Vitaminized Food); and (ii) 70 per cent of the Recipient
’s shares in 
Office 
National Pharmaceutique
 (National Pharmaceutical Board). 
8. 
For the purposes of the preceding paragraph, the phrase “brought . . . to the point 
of sale” means: (i) carrying out of an evaluation of the concerned stocks on  
the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
an evaluation of the assets and liabilities of the concerned 
enterprise; (ii) preparation of a prospectus for distribution to prospective  
buyers; (iii) solicitation of offers for the purchase of share capital; (iv) carrying 
out of an evaluation of any such offers and selection of successful 
 
bidders; and (v) issuance of invitation to the successful bidders to enter into 
good-faith negotiations. 
Page  7
6
B. 
Actions to be Taken under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by the Recipient 
under the Program include the following: 
1. 
Production of a comprehensive and accurate quarterly budget execution report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and based on the interim 
computerized integrated financial management information system 
 
(budget allocations, commitments, liquidations, payment orders, payments), 
commencing with that covering the first quarter of 2006. 
2. 
Submission to the National Assembly of a revised public procurement law, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  
3. 
Achievement of progress, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
 
Association, and as certified by an independent external audit, in implementation 
of the R
ecipient’s strategy for the settlement of its arrears to the private  
sector, including banks. 
4. 
Adoption of a three-year (2006-08) rolling action plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, and including the following elements, for 
purposes of reform of the Recipient’s coffee sector: (i) restructuring of  
sectoral debt; (ii) establishment of a legal, regulatory and institutional 
 
framework consistent with the liberalization and privatization of the 
 
sector; (iii) establishment of modalities for the management and financing of 
critical services in the sector, notably procurement of inputs, quality 
 
control, technical dissemination and advice, research and road rehabilitation  
and maintenance; (iv) 
elaboration of a strategy for privatization of the 
Recipient’s assets in the sector (washing stations and factories managed by 
Société de Déparchage et de Conditionnement du Café
 (Coffee Curing and 
Packing Company)); and  (v) appropriate accompanying measures, notably a 
social plan in the event of layoffs, institutional support and capacity building. 
5. 
Re-launch, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the bidding 
process for: (i) the sale of all of 
Office du Café du Burundi
 (Coffee Board of 
Burundi)
’s assets in sectors other than coffee; and (ii) of all of its shares in 
Société Hôtelière Nouvelle du Burundi
 (New Hotelier Company of Burundi). 
6. 
For the purposes of the preceding paragraph, the phrase “initiation . . . of the 
bidding process for the sale” means: (i) carrying out of an evaluation of  
the concerned stocks on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
an evaluation of the assets and 
liabilities of the concerned enterprise; (ii) preparation of a prospectus for 
distribution to prospective buyers; and (iii) solicitation of offers for the purchase 
of share capital. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. 
General.   
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
Page  8
7
B. Allocation 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in two (2) 
tranches.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
First Tranche 
23,550,000 
Second Tranche 
16,850,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
40,400,000 
C. 
Tranche Release Conditions.
 
1. 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Second Tranche unless the Association is 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Sections 3.01 (a) and (b) of 
this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
 
(a) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program;  
(b) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
appropriate;  
(c) 
that the actions described in Part B of Section I of this Schedule have 
been taken; and 
(d) 
that the Recipient has published, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, the results of the audit referred to in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, and has adopted a corresponding action plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of implementation 
of the recommendations of said audit. 
2. 
If, after this exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, it may give 
notice to the Recipient to that effect and, if within 90 days after the notice, the 
Recipient has not taken steps satisfactory to the Association with respect to 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Recipient, cancel all or any part of the Un-withdrawn Financing Balance. 
D. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the 
following two deposit accounts (“Deposit Accounts”) on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association:   
(a)  
a deposit account in Dollars (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account”); and  
Page  9
8
(b) 
a deposit account in Burundian Francs
 (“Local Currency Deposit 
Account”).   
2. 
All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account.  Upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the 
Recipient shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit 
Account. 
E. Audit.
 
The Recipient shall: 
1. 
have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the end of the Recipient’s fiscal year, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association determines at any 
 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.  Amounts refunded to 
 
the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2007. 
 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I.   Definitions 
1. 
“Burundian Franc” means the currency of the Recipient. 
2. 
“Debt Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries” means the initiative launched by 
the Bank and the International Monetary Fund in 1996, the objective of which is to 
ensure deep, broad and fast debt relief in the poorest, most heavily indebted countries. 
3. 
“Deposit Accounts” means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account 
 
(as hereinafter defined) and the Local Currency Deposit Account (as hereinafter defined). 
4. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another Financing, credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986)  
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the 
SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, un-
worked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
Page  11
10 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the  
United Nations; and 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that  
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation. 
5. 
“Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the Financing Agreement. 
6. 
“Foreign Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 (a) of 
Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Financings”, dated July 1, 2005, with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
8. 
“Local Currency Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Part D.1 (b) of 
Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred  
to in the letter dated June 26, 2006 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
10. 
“Second Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Second Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.   Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions  
 
for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, are as follows: 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications 
 
for Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  12
11 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. ” 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
