Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/29/2010 
Report No.:  AC5252
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Tajikistan 
Project ID:  P119690 
Project Name:  PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE AND 
WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
Task Team Leader:  Bekzod Shamsiev 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 16, 2010 
Estimated Board Date: June 4, 2010 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Irrigation and drainage (100%) 
Theme:  Rural services and infrastructure (85%);Rural policies and institutions (15%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Global Food Crisis Response Program 
10.02 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
10.02 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project objective is to generate temporal employment and rehabilitate irrigation and 
drainage infrastructure in selected districts in the Khatlon Oblast as a means to increase 
household food security.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will consist of three main components:  
 
Component 1:  Public Works to Renovate Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure (EUR 
6,605,500) to finance minor renovation of on-farm irrigation canals and off-farm 
drainage infrastructure.  These public works will be targeted to areas with high food 
insecurity and good agricultural potential in order to make the best contribution to 
sustainable economic development and rural livelihoods.  In addition to the public works, 
renovation and rehabilitation will involve the rental and/or import of auxiliary equipment 
(excavators, bulldozers, etc.); and the procurement of low-cost, locally available tools 
such as shovels, wheelbarrows, picks, and other tools.  
 
Page  2
Component 2:  Technical Assistance (EUR 450,000).  This component will result in a 
detailed set of recommendations, based on international experience, of (i) how to design 
the policies and institutions necessary for water basin management in Tajikistan; and (ii) 
how to effect the associated transformation from the current system to the new one.  A 
small additional technical assistance input will be implemented to provide 
recommendations on how the lessons learned in the project can be used for the design 
and implementation of future public works projects to be financed and managed by 
government in order to provide temporary employment.  
 
Component 3:  Implementation Support, Monitoring & Evaluation (EUR 364,500).  The 
Project Management Unit (PMU) will be the main project implementation agency, 
providing overall coordination and monitoring of implementation progress under the 
project, and will be responsible for financial management and procurement.  A 
communications strategy will be mounted prior to project commencement to inform rural 
households and local government authorities of the objectives of the project, the support 
to be provided and the eligibility criteria for support, and the measures to be taken to 
prevent corruption.  This component will also allocate funds to ensure appropriate EU 
Visibility.   This allocation will finance communication and public awareness activities to 
profile EU support through press releases, TV and radio broadcasts.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will be implemented in Khatlon region which is located in South Tajikistan 
and has a territory of 24.8 thous. sq.km. It covers two agro-climatic areas # Vakhsh and 
Kulyab, which are characterized by high temperatures and long-term frost-free period. 
Khatlon region has a population of 2.3 million people, or about one third of the national 
figure.   The vast majority of its residents live in rural areas, about 1.9 million people 
versus about 400 thousand urban settlers.  Due to deforestation, improper irrigation and 
excessive use of agricultural lands combined with unregulated chemical inputs the 
region#s land resources are affected by salinization, wind/water erosion and water 
logging.  A large part of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure is in danger of collapse.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Janis D. Bernstein (ECSS4) 
Mr Arcadii Capcelea (ECSSD) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Project category.  In accordance with the Bank's safeguard policies and procedures, 
including OP/BP/GP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, the project relates to the Bank's B 
Category. For such projects it is necessary to conduct an Environmental Assessment and 
to prepare a site specific Environmental Management Plan.  Taking into account the 
proposed rehabilitation activities will be similar, a generic Environmental Management 
Plan was prepared.  On the basis of the GEMP, site-specific EMPs will be prepared for 
the individual irigation systems at each project site.  
 
Potential environmental impacts.  The project will support mostly on farm and drainage 
infrastructure rehabilitation activities, as mentioned above. The civil works consist 
mostly of earth moving, concrete works, rehabilitation of existing canal structures, all of 
which are fairly small scale works.  The great majority of these activities will be done 
manually. None of them will cause significant environmental impacts. However, they 
have the potential cause some adverse environmental impacts and would fall under the 
Category B projects, for which the Bank required a simple Environmental Management 
Plan.  Furthermore, as the selected subprojects are located on the existing irrigation areas, 
none of them will have impacts on protected areas, critical habitats, or culturally or 
socially sensitive areas.  The proposed rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure have the 
potential to generate environmental impacts such as water logging and salinization; soil 
erosion and degradation of adjacent natural habitats and factory species; dumping of 
excavated sediments and other materials from irrigation and drainage canals, and 
structures.  
 
Improvements of the irrigation systems would increase agriculture production; prevent 
the risk of decreased productivity of irrigated land; protect natural "assets"; and prevent 
the degradation of soil fertility. The reduction in water losses and improved irrigation 
distribution will also reduce seepage losses from main canal and over-supply of 
irrigation, with a beneficial effect for the area: a lower water table, a lower risk of 
salinity, and less stagnant water pools in the village causing health problems. The project 
Page  4
will bring also a number of both direct and indirect positive social impacts. Direct 
positive impacts will be generated by increased production, more employment, and 
increased income. Indirect positive impacts will relate to overall contribution to poverty 
reduction and health.  Project implementation will not involve acquisition of land or the 
cutting down of trees having commercial value.  
 
Impacts on international waterways. Although the project area covers international 
waterways, the proposed investments under the project are only for renovation of 
irrigation canals, and improvements of drainage infrastructure along with the purchasing 
agricultural machinery, which are not expected to change the volume of 
extraction/discharge water or quality of water of these rivers, but rather it will lead to 
more effective irrigation and drainage of the water. Thus the project implementation 
would improve the transboundary water resources use and quality. At the same time, per 
stipulations of the Bank OP/BP 7.50, the project triggers Operational Policies on 
International Waterways. Since the proposed works will involve rehabilitation and 
improvement of existing irrigation and drainage systems and no new schemes will be 
developed, the project team had sought and obtained the waiver from the Bank's 
notification requirement.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The expected cumulative impacts of the proposed activities are mostly positive and 
include improved irrigation infrastructure and practices as well as improved livelihood of 
the local population.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The project team has analyzed the alternative of "no project". It was concluded with no 
project there would be negative social impacts, - no improvements in the irrigation sector 
and in ensuring food safety of the country and at the end increased poverty in rural areas.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
To avoid/mitigate the environmental impacts, the borrower has conducted an 
Environment Assessment and prepared a generic Environment Management Plan, which 
will ensure that the proposed prevention/mitigation measures and monitoring activities 
identified in the EA will be properly undertaken during the project implementation. The 
EMP also establishes the necessary institutional responsibilities, proposes a timetable for 
implementing these activities and estimates their costs for that are integrated in the 
proposed project budget.  The Generic EMP  includes the following: (a) short description 
of applicable laws, policies on environment procedures for EA as well as EA institutions 
and responsibilities; (b) Environmental Guidelines (EG) specifying: (i) potential  
environmental and social impacts of the rehabilitation of irrigation canals, improvements 
of drainage infrastructure activities; (ii) proposed mitigation and monitoring measures to 
be applied during the project implementation; (c) description of implementing 
arrangements, including supervision and monitoring, as well as reporting; and (d) 
Page  5
analysis of the EA institutional capacity of the implementing agencies along with the 
proposed technical assistance to adequately implement the EA requirements for the 
subprojects to be supported.  
 
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources 
(MIRWR) in close collaboration with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection 
(MLSP). The PMU established under the existing World Bank-financed irrigation 
projects will be used for the implementation of the project.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders for this project include the national and local institutions directly 
involved in water management (i.e. MIRWR and the Khatlon WRMD), as well as the 
Ministry of Agriculture, State Committee for Nature Protection,local government 
institutions (i.e. raions and jamoats), local associations (i.e. WUAs), non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) in the project areas, and the beneficiaries themselves. The project 
team met with representatives of all of these stakeholders and discussed the project intent, 
the rehabilitation plans and works to be undertaken as well as the environmental and 
social aspects of the project.  
 
The Project Management Unit (PMU) has disseminated the draft summary of the 
generic EMP to the Ministry of Agriculture, State Committee for Environmental 
Protection, and other relevant ministries for their review and comments.  On March 26, 
2010, the document was posted on websites of the CAREC (www.carecnet.org) and 
Aarhus centre in Dushanbe (www.aarhus.tj) for its access to the wider public.  On March 
29, 2010, the document was sent to the Bank.  Public consultations on the generic EMP 
were carried out on May 13, 2010 and May 19, 2010.  The document was then revised to 
address the inputs from these consultations.  On May 19, 2010, the revised generic EMP 
was posted on the website of the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources.  On May 
28, 2010, it was submitted to the World Bank for disclosure in the Infoshop. The project 
is being processed under OP 8.0 and therefore the document disclosure in Infoshop can 
be done after the project appraisal.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/29/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/26/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/28/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Page  6
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The project is being processed under OP 8.0 and therefore the document disclosure in 
Infoshop can be done after the project appraisal (expected before end April).   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
No 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
Yes 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
Yes 
Page  7
cost? 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Bekzod Shamsiev 
04/28/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Arcadii Capcelea 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Janis D. Bernstein 
05/28/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Ms Janis D. Bernstein 
05/28/2010 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Dina Umali-Deininger 
05/29/2010 
Comments:   
