Page  1
TAJIKISTAN 
 
PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE AND WATER 
MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
 
EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER 
 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
 
ECSSD 
 
Date:  June 28, 2010 
Team Leader:  Bekzod Shamsiev 
Country Director:  Motoo Konishi 
Sector Manager/Director:  Peter D. 
Thomson/Dina Umali-Deininger 
Sectors:  Irrigation and drainage (100%) 
Themes:  Rural services and infrastructure 
(85%); Rural policies and institutions (15%) 
Project ID:  P119690 
Environmental category:  Partial Assessment 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Joint IFC:   
Joint Level:  
Project Financing Data 
[
]
Loan     [  ] Credit     [X] Grant     [  ] Guarantee 
[  ] Other:  
For Grants:   
Total Operation Cost (EUR.):  7,416,750 
Financing Plan (EUR m) 
Source 
Local 
Foreign 
Total 
Borrower 0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
EU Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility  
7.42 
0.00 
7.42 
Total: 0.00 
7.42 
7.42 
Amount of financing to be provided by  
Source 
Amount (EUR m) 
EU Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility 
7.42 
SPF 0.00 
Borrower/Recipient 0.00 
External Funds, not Bank Managed 
0.00 
Financing Gap 
0.00 
Total Project Cost 
7.42 
Borrower: 
Ministry of Finance 
Ak. Rajabova Str.3 
Dushanbe 
Tajikistan 
Tel: (992-372) 21-14-17 
 
Responsible Agency:
 
Page  2
Project Management Unit at the Ministry of Water and Land Reclamation 
5/1 Shamsi Street 
Tajikistan 
Tel: 992-372-36-62-08 
Fax: 992-372-36-62-08 
a.ahrorov@mail.ru 
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/EUR m)
 
FY 
11 
12 
       
Annual 
5.20 
2.22 
       
Cumulative
5.20 
7.42 
       
Project implementation period:  Start July 15, 2010   End: November 30, 2011 
Expected effectiveness date:  July 15, 2010 
Expected closing date:  December 31, 2011 
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies? 
Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities
 
Have these been approved by Bank management? 
 
[
]Yes  [X] No 
[
]Yes  [  ] No 
Does the project include any critical risks rated “substantial” or “high”? 
Ref. Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
 
[
]Yes  [  ] No 
Project development objective  
Ref. Section Bank Response 
The project objective is to generate temporal employment and rehabilitate irrigation and drainage 
infrastructure in selected districts in the Khatlon Oblast as a means to increase household food 
security.   
 
Project description 
[one-sentence summary of each component]  
Ref. Section Bank Response 
The project will consist of three main components:  
Component 1:  Public Works to Renovate Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure (EUR6,577,037) 
to finance minor renovation of on-farm irrigation canals and off-farm drainage infrastructure.  
These public works will be targeted to areas with high food insecurity and good agricultural 
potential in order to make the best contribution to sustainable economic development and rural 
livelihoods.  In addition to the public works, renovation and rehabilitation will involve the rental 
and/or import of auxiliary equipment (excavators, bulldozers, etc.); and the procurement of low-
cost, locally available tools such as shovels, wheelbarrows, picks, and other tools.  
 
Component 2:  Technical Assistance (EUR444,444).  This component will result in a detailed set 
of recommendations, based on international experience, of (i) how to design the policies and 
institutions necessary for water basin management in Tajikistan; and (ii) how to effect the 
associated transformation from the current system to the new one.  A small additional technical 
assistance input will be implemented to provide recommendations on how the lessons learned in 
the project can be used for the design and implementation of future public works projects to be 
financed and managed by government in order to provide temporary employment.  
 
Component 3:  Implementation Support, Monitoring & Evaluation (EUR395,269).  The Project 
Management Unit (PMU) will be the main project implementation agency, providing overall 
coordination and monitoring of implementation progress under the project, and will be 
responsible for financial management and procurement.  A communications strategy will be 
Page  3
mounted prior to project commencement to inform rural households and local government 
authorities of the objectives of the project, the support to be provided and the eligibility criteria 
for support, and the measures to be taken to prevent corruption.  This component will also 
allocate funds to ensure appropriate EU Visibility.   This allocation will finance communication 
and public awareness activities to profile EU support through press releases, TV and radio 
broadcasts.   
 
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any?  
Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities
 
Project category. In accordance with the Bank's safeguard policies and procedures, including 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, the project relates to the Bank's B Category.  
Because the proposed rehabilitation activities are quite similar, a generic Environmental 
Management Plan was prepared which would then be adjusted to the concrete conditions of each 
sub-project.  
 
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources (MIRWR) in 
close collaboration with the regional government offices in Khatlon.  The project will support 
mostly on farm and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation activities, as mentioned above.  The 
civil works consist mostly of earth moving, concrete works, rehabilitation of existing canal 
structures, all of which are fairly small scale works.  The great majority of these activities will be 
done manually.  Furthermore, as the selected subprojects are located on the existing irrigation 
areas, none of them will have impacts on protected areas, critical habitats or culturally or socially 
sensitive areas.   
 
Although the project area covers international waterways, the proposed investments under the 
project are only for renovation of irrigation canals, and improvements of drainage infrastructure 
along with the purchasing agricultural machinery, which are not expected to change the volume 
of extraction/discharge water or quality of water of these rivers, but rather it will lead to more 
effective irrigation and drainage of the water. At the same time, per stipulations of the Bank 
OP/BP 7.50, the project triggers Operational Policies on International Waterways. Since the 
proposed works will involve rehabilitation and improvement of existing irrigation and drainage 
systems and no new schemes will be developed, the project team had sought and obtained the 
waiver from the Bank's notification requirement.  
