                                      Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00002230



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-97691)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 7,416,750
                      (US$ 10.26 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN

                                        FOR A

  PUBLIC EMPLOYMENT FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE AND WATER
                    MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                     June 27, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Regional Office
Europe and Central Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective 31 December 2011)

                        Currency Unit = EURO
                         TJS 6.16 = EUR 1.00
                        USD 1.29 = EUR 1.00

                           FISCAL YEAR

                       January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DA          Designated Account
EIRR        Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
ENPV        Economic Net Present Value
EU          European Union
EUR         European Union Euro
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results
ISR         Implementation Status and Results
MMWRM       Ministry of Melioration and Water Resources Management
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PMU         Project Management Unit
RBO         River Basin Organization
TA          Technical Assistance
TJS         Tajikistan Somoni
USD         United States Dollar
WBM         Water Basin Management
WUA         Water Users Association


        Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:          Saroj Kumar Jha
        Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger
        Project Team Leader:       Bobojon Yatimov
        ICR Team Leader:           Bobojon Yatimov




                                  ii
                                TAJIKISTAN
  Public Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and Water Management Project


                                                CONTENTS
DATA SHEET ................................................................................................................... iv
 A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv
 C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
 E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v
 F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
 H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix
 I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
   6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 21

   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
   Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 30
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
   Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................ 34
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40

MAP .................................................................................................................................. 41




                                                                  iii
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Public Employment for
                                                                          Sustainable Agriculture
Country:               Tajikistan                  Project Name:
                                                                          and Water Resources
                                                                          Management
Project ID:                     P119690            L/C/TF Number(s):                 TF-97691
ICR Date:                    06/26/2012                 ICR Type:                    Core ICR
                                                                                  REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:              ERL                     Grantee:
                                                                                  TAJIKISTAN
Original Total
                            USD 10.26M             Disbursed Amount:                USD 9.86M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 PMU of Ferghana Valley Water Resources Management Project
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
     Process             Date               Process               Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/18/2009      Effectiveness:              12/02/2010           11/24/2010
Appraisal:             04/16/2010      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/26/2010      Mid-term Review:            05/16/2011           05/03/2011
                                       Closing:                    12/31/2011           12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Moderate
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings              Borrower                             Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory     Government:                           Highly Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:

                                                  iv
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                                  Satisfactory                                    Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                                       No                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                                       No                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                   Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                                 89                 89
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry                 8                    8
Public administration- Other social services                             3                    3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                                  3                  3
Rural policies and institutions                                         19                  19
Rural services and infrastructure                                       75                  75
Social safety nets                                                       3                  3

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou               Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:            Saroj Kumar Jha                      Motoo Konishi
Sector Manager:              Laszlo Lovei                         Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:         Bobojon Yatimov                      Bekzod Shamsiev
ICR Team Leader:             Bobojon Yatimov
ICR Primary Author:          Michael J. Sandoz


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)



                                                  v
The project objective is to generate temporal employment and rehabilitate irrigation and
drainage infrastructure in selected districts in Khatlon Oblast as a means to increase
household food security.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The Project Development Objectives remained unchanged over the life of the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from     Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target         Completion or
                                             documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Households with improved income (number of households)
                                                                               43,313, of which
Value
                                                                               9,700 with direct
quantitative or             0                    25,000
                                                                                 income from
Qualitative)
                                                                                 manual labor
Date achieved                                 08/27/2010                          12/31/2011
                Derivation of the actually achieved values is reportedly through extrapolation
Comments
                from impact assessment household survey sample results and relevant statistics,
(incl. %
                but the provided methodological explanations and numerical details are not clear
achievement)
                and consistent.
                Jobs created by the project (number of working person-days, only for manual
Indicator 2 :
                cleaning)
                                                                                    435,022
                                                                                 (indicated as
                                                459,000
                                                                                 equivalent to
Value                                     (6,950 workers for
                                                                             10,590 workers for
quantitative or             0               3 months at 22
                                                                                2 months at an
Qualitative)                                 workdays per
                                                                                average of 20.5
                                                month)
                                                                                 workdays per
                                                                                    month)
Date achieved                                 08/27/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments
                PAD estimations for the target value correspond to the estimated volume of
(incl. %
                excavation (744,044 m3) and an assumed rate of work (1.62 m3 per person-day).
achievement)
                Jobs created by the project (number of workers employed, only for manual
Indicator 3 :
                cleaning)
Value
quantitative or             0                     6,950                             10,590
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                 08/27/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments        PAD estimation for the target value corresponds to the estimated person-days of
(incl. %        work (459,211) and assumed timeframe (3 months). The actually achieved value
achievement) corresponds to the number of individuals contracted for the manual works.
Indicator 4 : Amount of cash transferred (product of USD amount per person and total number

                                              vi
                  of people employed, USD)
Value
quantitative or               0                   4,854,000                           4,757,663
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                    08/27/2010                          12/31/2011
                  PAD rationale for the target value is not apparent, and the target value greatly
Comments
                  exceeds the PAD budget cost estimate for manual labor work wages. The
(incl. %
                  indicator was therefore interpreted as covering all cash transfers under all project
achievement)
                  contracts.
                  Preparation of proposals for the introduction of a WBM scheme (number of
Indicator 5 :
                  submissions to Government)
Value
quantitative or               0                          1                                1
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                    08/27/2010                        12/31/2011
                  A report on “Development of a comprehensive framework for the introduction
Comments
                  of river basin management in Tajikistan and support to local authorities in the
(incl. %
                  project area responsible for operation and management of irrigation and drainage
achievement)
                  schemes? was issued
                  Preparation of proposals for the implementation of public works programs by
Indicator 6 :
                  government (number of sets)
Value
quantitative or            0                      1                                 1
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                08/27/2010                        12/31/2011
Comments        A report addressing this issue, “Tajikistan’s capacity in implementing public
(incl. %        works programs as a tool of social protection policy in response to the crisis?
achievement) prepared by the PMU with consultant inputs, was issued with date 2011

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Improved collector and drainage channels (km of drains)
Value
(quantitative                 0                         576                             312.5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                     08/27/2010                          12/31/2011
                  Compared to PAD estimates there were (a) substantial increases in earthworks
Comments
                  unit prices due to significant fuel price increases, (b) large reductions in planned
(incl. %
                  lengths of C&D to be cleaned due to major increases in required earthworks per
achievement)
                  unit of length
Indicator 2 :     Renovated irrigation canals (km of canals)
Value
(quantitative                 0                     1,825                              1,861.5
or Qualitative)

                                                  vii
Date achieved                                   08/27/2010                         12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Manual labor canal cleaning works. (102% achievement of the target value)
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Fortified spillways (number)
Value
(quantitative                0                     2,630                                0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   08/27/2010                         12/31/2011
                The works could not be carried out due to non-availability of time. The works
Comments
                required prior completion of corresponding mechanized drainage cleaning works,
(incl. %
                and these were executed and completed only towards the end of the project
achievement)
                period.
Indicator 4 : Constructed outlet gates (number)
Value
(quantitative                0                      503                                305
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        A smaller number of often larger and more costly gates was preferred by the
(incl. %        responsible jamoats, to include water control improvements at critical secondary
achievement) canal locations and hence to benefit larger portions of the irrigation network.
Indicator 5 : Repaired canalette network (km)
Value
(quantitative                0                      1.1                                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   08/27/2010                         12/31/2011
                Damaged canalette sections replacement in Farkhor district only. The materials
Comments
                (special sections) for this repair could not be obtained. The budget amount for
(incl. %
                this work was allocated to procurement of pump equipment for pumping station
achievement)
                repairs.
Indicator 6 : Improved covered collector and drainage channels (km)
Value
(quantitative                0                      0.7                                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   08/27/2010                         12/31/2011
Comments        Concrete covered collector repairs in Gayrat jamoat, Farkhor district only. These
(incl. %        were not executed due to a local authority decision to undertake the works
achievement) themselves.
Indicator 7 : Repaired pump stations (number)
Value
(quantitative                0                       14                                 5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   08/27/2010                         12/31/2011
                PAD estimations were based on envisaged very minor repairs at each pumping
Comments
                station. It was later judged that these were unlikely to have more than very short-
(incl. %
                term effectiveness. The responsible jamoats preferred to have more substantial
achievement)
                works done.
Indicator 8 : Efficient and effective project management

                                               viii
                                                                       Satisfactory
Value                                 Satisfactory
                                                                       supervision ratings
(quantitative                         supervision ratings
                                                                       at the time of the
or Qualitative)
                                                                       final ISR report
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %      100%
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                          DO                        IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     03/02/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.99
  2     11/29/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               8.60
  3     12/26/2011       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               8.60


H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                           ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


The project appraisal document (PAD), actually an Emergency Project Paper, is dated
May 2010 and provides details of the project background, rationale and formulation, from
which the summary in this section is derived 1.

Over the 10-year period from 1998 to 2008 a notable growth took place in Tajikistan’s
agricultural sector, accompanied by a substantial drop in the incidence of rural poverty.
Nevertheless the levels of sector growth and poverty reduction were seen to be
inadequate due to low productivity, low incentives and weak markets, with the key issues
being (i) weak land use (due to government policies that forced and favored cotton
production over more profitable crop and livestock enterprises), (ii) weak land ownership
rights (and slow adoption of needed post-privatization farm management adjustments),
(iii) inadequate competition, (iv) large rural debt accumulation, and (v) agricultural
workers out-migration (primarily to Russia), leading to social imbalance and rising
proportions of female-headed farms and households.

At the end of this period, government resolution of the cotton debt crisis (2009) opened
the way for sector reform and increased growth. However, the sector was affected by
major external shocks around this time including (i) adverse climatic conditions and
locust attacks (2008), (ii) a food price crisis (2008-2009), and (iii) the global financial
crisis (2009). The last of these in particular had a severe impact on rural poverty. It was
estimated that remittances fell by about 50% in local currency, causing an estimated 5.3%
increase in rural poverty, a significant and troubling reversal of the previous trend.

In response to the various income shocks, government social protection programs
covering rural finance, adult training centers and rural infrastructure were instituted.
However, an identified need to address rural food insecurity through support for
employment and income generation remained unmet by these programs. Also ongoing
was the government program for agriculture sector reform, which among other items
covers (i) rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure systems, (ii) farm
privatization and land ownership reforms, (iii) irrigation and water resources management
policy reforms, and (iv) agricultural policy administration and institutional reforms.
These reforms were also in need of some timely interventions.

The government therefore asked for emergency project assistance to address the rural
food insecurity problem and thereby also to provide some key additional support to
agricultural sector reform. Specifically it was requested (i) that temporary employment in
selected high food insecurity areas be established as a direct response to the sharp drop in


1
  The project’s unit of currency was the euro. In this Section 1 of the report, equivalent values given
in US$ correspond to the exchange rate indicated in the PAD, namely USD 1.35 = EUR 1.00

                                                  1
remittances, (ii) that this employment be used to rehabilitate irrigation and drainage
infrastructure through public works as a means of facilitating future increased food crop
production, and (iii) that steps be taken to improve water resource management policy
through design of a river basin management system.

The geographic areas of focus specified for the project were selected high food insecurity
areas within Khatlon oblast, the main location of rural poverty in Tajikistan. A large
proportion of the oblast population (just under 50%) was estimated to have incomes
below the poverty level, and substantial numbers of the rural households (around 15%)
were identified as female-headed households. The proportion of the rural population of
the oblast experiencing food insecurity (estimated at over 30%) was classified as most
vulnerable to the income shocks, and it was deduced that a major drop in remittance
incomes to rural households had indeed occurred in the oblast. At the same time it was
seen that the prospects for reduction of rural poverty and food insecurity in Khatlon were
good, given the good agricultural resource base comprising large areas of arable land, a
favorable climate, and access to adequate gravity irrigation water supply. What was
needed in part was rehabilitation and maintenance of much degraded irrigation and
drainage systems together with updating of water management policies and practices for
improved water use efficiency to suit the conditions following the privatization of farms.

The project was formulated accordingly. Five raions within the oblast were selected for
project interventions, through the application of criteria requiring (i) high numbers of
food insecure households, (ii) extensive areas developed for irrigation and with good
agricultural potential and (iii) high proportions of agricultural land under private
ownership following restructuring of farms. Within these raions, irrigation schemes at
jamoat level were to be selected for rehabilitation on the basis of criteria requiring (i) a
high level of private farm land ownership (greater than 50%), (ii) a low total cost of
rehabilitation (less than 250 euros (340 US$) per hectare), (iii) a high proportion of the
total rehabilitation cost allocated to manual labor (greater than 50%), (iv) a technically
sound irrigation scheme, and (v) a full compliance of the public works with social and
environmental safeguards. In addition to providing infrastructure rehabilitation works,
the project, through technical assistance arrangements, was to support the design of a
river basin management system and guide associated institutional reform. Project
implementation under the Ministry of Melioration and Water Resources Management
(MMWRM) 2 and the Khatlon oblast administration was to be undertaken by the
ministry’s existing Project Management Unit (PMU). The period of implementation was
set to be one year only. The estimated project cost was 7.42 million euros (10.01 million
US$). Project financing was to be provided by the European Union (EU) Food Crisis
Rapid Response Facility Trust Fund Grant to the Republic of Tajikistan, and the project
was to be implemented as a Bank project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators




2
 This is the more literal and commonly accepted English version of the name of this ministry. It is
used throughout this report in preference to the version used in the PAD.

                                                2
The project development objective (PDO) as specified in the PAD was “to generate
temporal employment and rehabilitate irrigation and drainage infrastructure in selected
districts in Khatlon Oblast as a means to increase household food security?. The rationale
was that food security would be increased directly in the short-term through the income
earned by food insecure households from public works (food access), in the medium-term
through increased crop production as a result of improved irrigation and drainage (food
availability), and in the long-term through the project’s contribution to improving water
resource management policies.

The indicated project outcome indicators were (i) amount of cash transferred to
beneficiaries, (ii) number of beneficiaries employed, and (iii) average income per
beneficiary. Key intermediate outcome indicators related to (i) various items of
rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage infrastructure under public works programs, and
(ii) proposals and recommendations through technical assistance for a water basin
management scheme and for design and implementation of public works programs.
Details of the outcome indicators, and of the corresponding targets and actual
achievements, are provided in Annex 2.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

The PDO, and the outcome indicators and their target values, remained unchanged over
the life of the project. Achievement expectations for specific intermediate outcomes
relating to irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation were lowered during the
course of project implementation, as a result of (i) modified beneficiary preferences, (ii)
refined quantity estimations, (iii) non-availability of required material items, and (iv)
price escalations, all within a context of fixed funding availability and fixed project
duration. There was no project restructuring carried out in response to these lowered
expectations, due to the very short (11-month) implementation period 3, but there was
some corresponding re-prioritization of activities and re-allocation of funds within (but
not between) the two broad disbursement categories specified in the grant agreement.
The expected levels of beneficiary cash transfers, employment and income, and hence of
the project outcomes, remained unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main project beneficiaries and stakeholders were identified as (i) vulnerable
households with high food insecurity, including female-headed households and
unemployed and seasonally inactive workers in the project area, (ii) community-level
institutions including mahallah committees, social self-mobilizing groups and existing
Water Users Associations (WUAs), and (iii) public institutions including the MMWRM,
local branches of the MMWRM (oblvodkhoz, raivodkhozes), regional and local
government khukumat and jamoats, the working groups leading agricultural reform, and


3
 The execution of works was largely limited to off-season (non-cropping and non-irrigation) periods,
which corresponded to about 6 months split into two portions, one at the very start and one at the very
end of the project implementation period.

                                                   3
the donor community. Vulnerable households, estimated at almost 7,000 in number,
were to be the direct beneficiaries of income earned from temporary (three-month
duration) manual labor employment for public works. Meanwhile, all rural community
stakeholders were to be beneficiaries of more efficient water use and delivery, leading to
improved agricultural productivity and hence to reduced rural poverty and food insecurity.

1.5 Original Components

The three approved project components were:

•       Component 1: Public Works to Renovate Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure,
EUR 6,605,500 (USD 8,917,500 – 89% of the total). The public works of this
component comprised minor renovation of on-farm irrigation canals and off-farm
drainage infrastructure in areas with high food insecurity and good agricultural potential
in order to provide the best possible contribution to sustainable economic development
and rural livelihoods. In addition to the public works, provisions for renovation and
rehabilitation included the rental and/or import of auxiliary equipment (excavators,
bulldozers, etc.), and the procurement of low-cost, locally available tools such as shovels,
wheelbarrows, picks and other tool items. Sub-components were (i) sub-projects
selection and detailed design, (ii) manual labor employment, (iii) mechanized works, and
(iv) procurement of material, tools and machinery.
•       Component 2: Technical Assistance, EUR 450,000 (USD 607,500 – 6% of the
total). The special technical assistance (TA) component comprised preparations for the
introduction of a water basin management (WBM) system including (i) delineation of
basins, (ii) outlining of institutional roles, responsibilities and structures, and (iii)
formulating of recommendations for effecting a transition from the current system to the
new one. It also provided for the formulation of recommendations for using lessons
learned during project implementation for the design and implementation of future public
works projects financed and managed by government for providing temporary
employment.
•       Component 3: Implementation Support, Monitoring & Evaluation, EUR 364,500
(USD 492,000 – 5% of the total). The implementation support component provided for
support for the functioning of the PMU in project implementation and coordination, in
monitoring of implementation progress and achievements, and in fulfilling its
responsibilities for financial management and procurement. It also provided for a
communications strategy to be mounted prior to project commencement, to inform rural
households and local government authorities of the objectives of the project, the support
to be provided, the eligibility criteria for support, and the measures to be taken to prevent
corruption. Finally, it provided for achieving appropriate EU visibility through financing
of communication and public awareness activities to profile EU support through press
releases, television and radio broadcasts.

1.6 Revised Components

There were no revisions to the project components over the life of the project.



                                             4
1.7 Other Significant Changes

As indicated at Section 1.3 above, changes occurred in the planning and expectations for
Component 1 irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation works. The changes did
not affect project outcome indicator values. They did however result in a somewhat
lower-than-expected level of systems rehabilitation, while the overall value of the
actually executed rehabilitation works was higher than planned. Details of the changes
are provided in Annex 2, but in summary they included:
    • decreased lengths of drainages cleaned through mechanized works, due to both
        price increases and greater-than-estimated earthworks volumes 4,
    • slightly increased lengths of irrigation canals cleaned through manual labor works,
    • no fortification of drainage spillways due to end-of-project time constraints,
    • decreased number of constructed outlet gates, due to a change in priority from
        smaller (tertiary) to larger (secondary) and costlier canal outlets rehabilitation,
    • no repair of canalette network due to non-availability of needed replacement
        sections,
    • no improvements to covered drainage collectors due to local authority decision to
        undertake the works themselves, and
    • decreased number of repaired pump stations, due to a change in priority from
        minor and not-very-durable repairs at many stations to more substantial and
        costlier but longer-lasting repairs at fewer stations5.

Also significant to the project’s implementation and outcomes was the impact of a change
to the maximum permissible balance in the project’s Designated Account (DA), from
EUR 750,000 to EUR 1,500,000, effected at about the mid-point of the project period.
As discussed further in Section 2.2 below, this change helped to improve the timeliness
of disbursement of funds for manual work payments to beneficiaries following an early
execution of high volumes of manual works in a short period of time.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was an emergency response project for which the full cycle of preparation
was undertaken within a rather short timeframe (9 months). It is therefore perhaps not
surprising that a number of inconsistencies and non-sequiturs occur in the PAD (e.g.
quantity, cost and indicator values), and that the engineering quantifications and
estimations may not have been at a normal best-practice level. Two specific items of
note would be (i) seemingly unsupported target values assigned to some key indicators,
and (ii) an absence of physical and price contingency allowances in the project cost


4
  Prioritization was given to drains in or near villages to maximize both agricultural benefits to
household gardens and smallholder plots and flood proofing benefits to village residences affected by
high groundwater table levels.
5
  Prioritization was given to repairing one pump station per district on the basis of cost effectiveness
and perceived agricultural and social benefits.

                                                   5
estimates. On the other hand, in conformance with the objective, nature and rationale of
the project, considerable attention was given to key social and fiduciary aspects. For
these, lessons from previous public works and emergency programs and operations
covering wage rates, workers eligibility, labor intensity, selection of locations, timing of
public works, inclusion of women, transaction costs, local government support resources,
national government liaison, and development agencies coordination, were seemingly
well accounted for. Risks identified and addressed covered government performance,
fiduciary and social factors, and implementation and sustainability items. The project
was prepared for a two-year implementation period, but EU funding complexities, delays
and constraints, including an absence of provisions for retroactive financing, resulted at
entry in a project timeframe of only 11 months 6.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation under the MMWRM and the Khatlon oblast administration was
undertaken by the PMU in Dushanbe and a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) based in
the oblast at Kurgan-Tyube. Consultants were engaged for works design and
construction supervision, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) were engaged for
public awareness generation, social mobilization, manual labor workforce assembly and
administration, and environmental management. Local governments (khukumat and
jamoats), MMWRM branches (oblvodkhoz and raivodkhozes), and community
institutions (mahallah committees and WUAs), were also involved in project
implementation.

A mid-term review was carried out in April/May 2011. Progress was considered
satisfactory. The main indicated concern was in relation to delayed payments to manual
labor workers, and a further important area of attention was the expected decrease in the
lengths of drains to be improved through mechanized cleaning. Discussions on both of
these topics are included in the review of factors affecting implementation that follows
below.

Sub-Projects and Beneficiary Selections. Five raions had been selected for the project as
indicated in Section 1.1 above. Then, following project commencement and through a
process of consultation with all stakeholders, sub-projects and infrastructure items to be
rehabilitated within each of the project raions were prioritized and selected up to the
limits set by budget constraints. Criteria included (i) perceived greatest potential benefits
from increased water supply, increased crop area and production, and increased economic
diversity and returns, and (ii) greatest levels of manual labor employment. Beneficiary
selection for the latter was initially predicated by demand, since a desire to work for
wages nominally set at lower than market rates was deemed to be sufficient for eligibility.
When supply exceeded demand, criteria relating to vulnerability and joblessness became
applicable. However, beneficiary lists prepared for this in advance by the local jamoats
were found to often include proposed humanitarian aid recipients, including the underage,


6
 The restrictions prevented both an earlier more timely start to the project and a time extension at the
end of the project.

                                                   6
overage and handicapped, as well as some others who were clearly not in the target
population. Resolving these issues, and screening and finalizing the manual labor
beneficiary lists, required considerable extra efforts on the part of the project’s social
mobilization NGOs.

Manual Labor Contracts. A total of 10,590 manual labor contracts for individuals on the
approved beneficiary lists were prepared, let and administered during the course of the
project. This represented a very substantial and time consuming administrative burden
for the PMU/PIU and the NGOs engaged in social mobilization and labor force
administration. Tools and implements for manual work were procured under an early
goods contract.

Time and Budget Constraints. As seen from Sections 1.3 and 1.7, implementation of
planned irrigation and drainage rehabilitation works was affected by factors such as
modified beneficiary preferences, refined quantity estimations, non-availability of
required material items, and price escalations, which resulted in some of the planned
works not being undertaken and some further planned works being reduced in scope. An
absence from the budget of physical and price contingency allowances did not allow for
internal accommodation of the effects of higher quantities and prices. Most of the
shortfalls could have been reduced through relatively modest increases in time and
budget allocations, but these could not be obtained.

Disbursement Constraints: The project’s manual labor works for irrigation canals
rehabilitation were in large part arranged for execution and completion over a short
period of time early in the project life, during which workers would be available for such
work prior to the start of the cropping and irrigation season. It was expected that the
resulting improved water supply to farms would generate corresponding incremental
agricultural benefits during the immediately following crop season. The tight work
schedule led to a need for large and frequent early disbursements over a short period of
time. However, there was insufficient staff and organizational capacity all around to
accomplish this while at the same time observing the multiple rules and procedures that
were in place to ensure transparency and accountability7. Long delays in initial payments
to the beneficiary laborers resulted, leading in turn to a need for additional NGO and
PMU/PIU community mobilization and dialogue efforts to retain local interest and
commitment. As a consequence of the payment delays, for the first crop of the
subsequent season, advantage could be taken of the improved water supply but the
purchase of needed seeds was constrained by beneficiary cash limitations. The raising of
the DA balance limit from EUR 750,000 to EUR 1,500,000, discussed in Section 1.7
above, helped to considerably (but not completely) resolve the issue of untimely
disbursements for manual labor payments. Subsequent payments to beneficiaries allowed
for the purchase of seeds in time for the second crop of the season. It is noted that, prior
to the first payments being made, individual and community responses to the project were
poor, due to fears of non-payment for work undertaken (based on previous similar


7
 The disbursement timeliness problem was compounded by the need to follow both World Bank and
EU guidelines and procedures and to be subject to reviews and approvals by both of these.

                                             7
experiences with local government programs). This situation changed dramatically when
payments were seen to be forthcoming, at which time a high demand for participation in
the project occurred.

Late Drainage Works and Machinery Procurement Contracts. In contrast to the manual
labor contracts, most of which were expeditiously initiated and well completed early in
the project period as mentioned above, the mechanized works contracts for drains
rehabilitation, and the machinery supply contracts, were initiated and completed late in
the period. For the drainage contracts there was an extended period of engineering
design, quantification and estimation over the first months of the project period, during
which it was established that higher earthworks quantities combined with major fuel price
increases and other price inflations would require a works scope reduction in the context
of fixed availability of project funds. An extensive participatory reprioritization was then
undertaken as outlined in Section 1.7 above before finalizing and tendering the contract
packages. Execution of the contracts was then hampered initially, during the middle and
late irrigation season, by high drainage flows in the drains. There was an eventual high
level of production and full completion of all expected works over the last few months of
the project period. In the case of the machinery supply contracts, these required extended
discussions on suitable machinery numbers, types and specifications compatible with the
available budget, which in turn required discussions and decisions on intended uses, users,
locations and responsibilities. Agreements were reached and formalized, supply
contracts were prepared and let, and the machinery was delivered by the end of the
project period. By that time the reduced reprioritized project drainage works had been
done through the mechanized works contracts, but it was pleasing to note that the
procured machinery was immediately mobilized to the various raions and put to intensive
use in further priority cleaning of canals and drains, with fuel and salary costs being met
from non-project sources.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Bank supervision missions reported that monitoring of project implementation activities
was effective at both field and PMU levels. At field level, the NGOs responsible for
social mobilization and coordination of the manual labor portion of the rehabilitation
works also had a data collection and monitoring mandate in liaison with PMU/PIU field
staff, and their performance was reported as excellent. Field level data collection and
monitoring of the mechanized cleaning of the drainage canals and of the rehabilitation of
outlet gates and pumping stations, carried out by PIU staff, was reported as satisfactory.
At PMU central level, a partial monitoring report was submitted in conjunction with the
project’s mid-term review, and the project and intermediate outcome indicator values
were periodically updated, but the required formal quarterly monitoring reports were not
prepared. Data recording seems to have been more comprehensive in the first half than in
the second half of the project period. The PMU’s M&E expert was employed on a part-
time basis only and as a result had only partial involvement with the project as it
progressed.

With a view to compensating for these deficiencies towards the end of the project period,
the PMU arranged for consultants to undertake (i) a final project impact assessment study

                                             8
and (ii) an intensive final M&E exercise. The project impact assessment was based on
analyses of (i) project records covering the manual labor beneficiaries, contracts and
achievements, (ii) project records covering the mechanized works contracts and
achievements, (iii) a survey of almost 1,000 beneficiary and non-beneficiary households
in the project area, and (iv) jamoat-level project area statistical crop production data. The
impact assessment report provides conclusions on several items including (i) the level of
cash-for-work transfers to beneficiaries, and the uses made of this supplementary income
by the beneficiary households, (ii) the additional indirect (non-cash) benefits accruing to
beneficiary households, (iii) the project’s impact on crop production, and (iv)
implementation issues including participation and selection aspects. Meanwhile the final
M&E exercise comprised compilation, analysis and presentation of monitoring data from
all areas and activities, and the preparation of a corresponding final M&E report. It is
noted that in reviewing these reports it was found that not all presented data derivations
and explanations were consistent, clear and complete, leading to reservations as to the
accuracy of some impact and achievement values and estimates 8.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards. Bank supervision missions reported satisfaction with the
project’s environmental management arrangements, performance and results.
Responsibilities for environmental management were assigned to an NGO engaged
exclusively for this task by the PMU. Site-specific environmental management plans
(EMPs) were prepared, reviewed, updated as necessary, issued to stakeholders and
publicly disclosed. They were then subject to formal public consultations with prior
announcements and invitations, were finalized in accordance with received comments,
and were made publicly available. Principal EMP provisions were included in works
contracts, their implementation was supervised by the PMU field staff, and there were no
reported non-compliances.         Detrimental environmental impacts included only
insignificant, short-duration and localized noise, dust, solid waste, water pollution and
vegetation degradation impacts during works execution. Works were carried out only
along existing canals and drains in already developed irrigated agriculture areas, and
mostly during the off season, so there were no damages to soils, to trees or other crops, or
to protected areas, critical habitats, culturally or socially sensitive areas, or rare or
endangered species. Beneficial long-term environmental impacts resulting from the
irrigation and drainage infrastructure improvements included lowered water tables, lower
soil salinity risks and fewer stagnant water pools with associated potential public health
hazards, with corresponding agricultural, flood proofing and sanitation benefits accruing
primarily to rural village household and smallholder garden plots, residential properties
and communities. Also of note were the comprehensive environmental public awareness,
outreach and training program undertaken by the responsible NGO.




8
  This comment refers primarily to values given for (i) households with improved incomes, and (ii)
jobs created as expressed in working person-days. Further details are provided in the Annex 2 table,
and the derivation details for the first of these are included at the end of Annex 5.

                                                 9
Social Safeguards. There were no identified or reported resettlements or agricultural land
loss issues. Suitable formulation and application of eligibility and selection criteria for
sub-projects and manual labor beneficiaries helped to ensure satisfactory project targeting
of the poorest, most vulnerable and jobless members of the rural communities 9 .
Assistance with securing personal documentation and registration was provided when
possible, or alternative modes of indirect inclusion of otherwise eligible beneficiaries
were found (e.g. through other family members or community volunteers), and this
applied also to directly excluded underage, overage or handicapped beneficiaries. Quite
successful intensive social interaction efforts were made to include women in the manual
labor force (to an average of 11%) 10. Public awareness and information meetings, and
participatory and consultative processes, were well executed and reportedly most
beneficial.

Procurement. Bank supervision missions reported that project implementation occurred
satisfactorily and without major delays. The implementation unit was considered to have
sufficient procurement capacity and performance, the filing system was found to be in
good order, and the agreed procurement manual was kept available. The procurement
plan was regularly updated and submitted to the Bank for approval, Bank procurement
guidelines were observed, and reviews of contracts subject to post review yielded no
notable deficiencies.

Financial Management. The financial management arrangements at the PMU were
considered by Bank supervision missions to be satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank.
They included accounting and reporting, internal control procedures, planning and
budgeting, external audits, funds flow and staffing arrangements. The internal control
system at the PMU was assessed as acceptable and capable of providing timely project
information and reporting. A deficiency relating to the register and marking of fixed
assets was noted, but at the time of final ICR report drafting it was reported that a letter
from the MMWRM verifying final compliance has been received and accepted.

Transparency and Accountability. A major feature of the project was the various anti-
corruption provisions specified in the PAD. These were put and kept in place for project
implementation even though they led to long delays in the processing of project
documents and payments. They included (i) comprehensive cross-checking of lists of
workers, work volumes executed and salaries earned, (ii) the use of bank accounts and
deposits instead of cash for payments to beneficiaries, and (iii) full public disclosure
through the posting in public places of the lists of workers, volumes and earnings,
together with grievance system and project NGO contact details.


9
  This finding is as reported by Bank supervision teams, but based in part on impact assessment
beneficiary survey results it has been suggested that there were possible shortfalls in social targeting
relating to the applied wage rate (perhaps too high) and/or screening criteria applications (perhaps too
flexible). Careful further consideration of this topic could be warranted when formulating future
similar projects.
10
   Social norms and codes do not allow women to be employed to perform hard labor, but in practice it
is women who are the primary agricultural workers.

                                                  10
2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

Upon project completion a number of important factors were seen to represent good
prospects for ensuring sustainable and continued operation, maintenance and further
development of the rehabilitated infrastructure systems, and for the further evolution and
eventual adoption of adequate institutional arrangements for water management. These
included the following:
• Procured manual labor tools and implements remained with the beneficiaries for
    future use in maintenance and further local system improvements;
• A formal agreement was in place with the MMWRM covering (i) appropriate housing,
    care and maintenance of procured machinery and equipment at the ministry’s raion-
    level branches, and (ii) appropriate and exclusive use of the machinery and equipment
    for further canal and drain cleaning operations within the same raions. This was to
    continue until such time as machinery and equipment handovers to suitably
    established operation and maintenance (O&M) agencies with good machinery care
    and maintenance arrangements could be effected; such O&M agencies could be
    suitably strengthened existing MMWRM oblast- or raion-level branches, new mirob
    entities attached to the river basin organizations (RBOs) as envisaged in the project’s
    WBM proposals, and/or capable and prepared WUAs or federations of WUAs.
    Meanwhile, at the time of initial ICR report drafting, it was verified in the field that
    additional needed canal and drain cleaning with the recently procured machinery was
    already ongoing at several locations within the project raions.
• The potential constraints to achieving projected mid-term agricultural production
    benefits, resulting from the reduced scope of the project’s irrigation and drainage
    systems rehabilitation, could be readily alleviated by a judicious program of works to
    be carried out with the use of the project’s procured machinery and manual labor
    tools.
• The project’s water basin management technical assistance outputs, covering
    institutional policy and strategy frameworks and initial river basin and irrigation
    scheme databases, had been well received by government. However, efforts in the
    areas of technical and institutional awareness and dialogue were still seen to be
    needed in order to further influence and fashion the water management reforms to be
    more in line with established international best practice.
• The success of the project had led to proposals for a follow-on repeater and expansion
    project that would build on this success and incorporate the lessons learned from the
    project’s implementation. In addition to addressing urgent needs in additional raions,
    the follow-on project could perhaps allow for adequate completion of the originally
    planned project works, if not achieved beforehand. The new project would also
    ideally include a new, systematic and perhaps separate focus on local institutional
    improvements in all of the raions, to secure future systems sustainability through
    WUAs participation, development and support, and through corresponding scheme
    and raion O&M agencies capacity strengthening. It was thought that consideration
    should also be given to possible inclusion into the new project of a small but well
    focused agricultural development component, to help with achievement and
    consolidation of projected agricultural production benefits. Finally, a continuation of
    the higher-level water management institutional development efforts, including the


                                            11
     setup of a first pilot RBO with attached mirob entities responsible for systems O&M,
     was being envisaged.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project’s objectives, design and implementation are considered to have been highly
relevant and fully consistent with current country and Bank priorities and strategies,
given their focus on short-term poverty reduction, medium-term agricultural production
enhancement, and long-term water systems management sustainability. 11 The
undertaking of needed irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation through an
emergency public works project with a major manual labor component represented a
novel development project concept and approach for the Bank that is judged to have been
eminently successful.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

It was judged that there had been a high level of achievement of the PDO, which as noted
in Section 1.2 above was to generate temporal employment and rehabilitate irrigation and
drainage infrastructure in selected districts in the Khatlon oblast as a means to increase
household food security. Achievements as compared to the project outcome indicator
target values given in the PAD range from 95% to 173% of the target values, as shown in
the table below.

        Project Outcome Indicator                  Target Value        Actually         Percentage of
                                                    from PAD           Achieved            Target
                                                                        Value             Achieved
Households with improved income (number of                          43,313, of which
households).                                                        9,700 with direct
                                                        25,000                               173
                                                                      income from
                                                                      manual labor
Jobs created by the project (only for manual            459,000         435,022               95
cleaning, number of working person-days).
Jobs created by the project (only for manual             6,950           10,590              152
cleaning, number of workers employed).
Amount of cash transferred (product of USD
                                                     4,854,000
amount per person and total number of people                           4,757,663              98
employed, USD).
Preparation of proposals for the introduction of          1                1                 100


11
  The two main objectives of the Country Partnership Strategy of 2010-2013 are (i) to reduce the
negative impact of the (global financial and economic) crisis on poverty and vulnerability, and (ii) to
pave the way for post-crisis recovery and sustained development. Measures to “boost agricultural
productivity? are among the “key initiatives? identified to achieve these objectives. Meanwhile the
Government’s National Development Strategy for 2006-2015 aims for (i) promotion of sustainable
economic growth, (ii) improvement of public administration, and (iii) development of human potential,
while identifying the key agricultural sector deficiencies as (i) lack of food security, particularly in
rural areas, (ii) inadequate healthy nutrition, and (iii) deteriorated irrigation systems.

                                                   12
a WBM scheme (number of submissions to
Government).
Preparation of proposals for the implementation         1                1                100
of public works programs by government
(number of sets).

This could be considered an excellent result, even though there may be doubts as to the
meaningfulness and accuracy of some of the indicators and values, as noted in Sections
2.1 and 2.3 above. Further details are provided in the Annex 2 table comments, and the
derivation details for the first of the above indicator values are included at the end of
Annex 5. With regard to achievements compared to the various intermediate outcome
indicator values given in the PAD, most of those for irrigation and drainage infrastructure
rehabilitation items are seen to have been more modest and variable, as shown in the
table below.

                                                                    Actually          Percentage
                                                  Target Value
     Intermediate Outcome Indicator                                 Achieved           of Target
                                                   from PAD
                                                                     Value             Achieved
  Improved collector and drainage channels
                                                       576             312.5              54
  (km of drains).
  Renovated irrigation canals (km of canals).          1,825          1,861.5            102
  Fortified spillways (number).                        2,630             0                0
  Constructed outlet gates (number).                    503             305               61
  Repaired canalette network (km).                      1.1              0                0
  Improved covered collector and drainage
                                                        0.7              0                0
  channels (km).
  Repaired pump stations (number).                      14                 5              36
                                                                     Satisfactory
                                                   Satisfactory      supervision
  Efficient and effective project management.      supervision      ratings at the       100
                                                     ratings      time of the final
                                                                      ISR report

The reasons for, and perceived relatively minor consequences of, these latter shortfalls
were discussed in Sections 1.3, 1.7, 2.2 and 2.5 above. Further details on all target and
actually achieved outcome indicator values are given in Annex 2. On a more qualitative
level, predominantly positive impressions of the project’s achievements were gained
during the ICR report drafting period, from the various field visits, meetings and
discussions with beneficiaries, NGOs, implementing agencies and donor agencies.

3.3 Efficiency

The project’s immediately beneficial impact was in the temporal manual labor
employment and corresponding incremental income provided to the most vulnerable
sectors of the rural population in the targeted raions, at a time of emergency following
some major income shocks. At the same time however, the manual labor and
complementary mechanized works resulted in substantial restoration of irrigation and
drainage infrastructure systems, with corresponding expected medium-term benefits to


                                                  13
agricultural production, farm incomes, flood proofing of residential areas, and community
sanitation, all arising from improved water supply, improved drainage, increased
cropping areas and potentially higher value cropping patterns. Proper quantification of
these benefits could probably be effected one or two years after project completion,
although the project impact assessment carried out towards the end of the project period
did provide some preliminary findings and indications in this regard, as outlined in
Section 3.6 below.

In the meantime, for current assessment purposes, economic and financial analyses
addressing agro-economic benefits only, as presented in the PAD, were updated as
presented in Annex 3. Key analysis approaches, results and conclusions are summarized
as follows:
• Previously projected farm-level per hectare production cost, yield, crop allocation and
    return values and trends were deemed to still apply and were retained 12.
• Account was taken of the actually achieved total area, total development cost and
    time flow of disbursements.
• The resulting economic indicator values were (i) economic net present value (ENPV)
    of USD 9,804,070, equivalent to 221 USD/ha; (ii) economic internal rate of return
    (EIRR) of 25.43%, and (iii) benefit-to-cost ratio of 5.56.
• These results on balance represent a small improvement over the equivalent values
    derived during project preparation and are considered to be entirely satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Considering the perceived high relevance of the project, high level of achievement of the
PDO and entirely satisfactory economic and financial efficiency indications, the overall
project outcome could reasonably be judged to be highly satisfactory. Given the
dominant emphasis on short-term income and employment outcomes, it is a matter of
interpretation of intentions at appraisal as to whether the shortfalls in the achievement of
physical system rehabilitation objectives should affect the overall project outcome rating.
After much consideration it was assumed that they should, and hence the overall project
outcome was judged to be satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Short-term positive social and poverty alleviation impacts were generated by the
incremental cash-for-work incomes to vulnerable households. This additional earned
income was used not only for immediate food and other necessities but also for upcoming


12
  At the time of final ICR report drafting, in the context of preparation of the proposed follow-on
project, production input and output prices and other farm budget aspects were being updated with a
view to further refinement of the financial and economic analyses.

                                                14
crop season agricultural inputs. These, in conjunction with the improved water supply
and control provided by the rehabilitated irrigation and drainage infrastructure, would
form a sound basis for generating medium-term positive socioeconomic impacts from
increased agricultural production, further increased employment and incomes, and
enhanced food security. A good level of inclusion of women in the manual labor work
force was achieved, and there were good prospects for further such gender equity
advances. Also of note were the several additional unintended social benefits identified
in Section 3.5(c) below. The perception of social success of the project was reinforced by
reports of spontaneous project duplications being undertaken by communities in adjacent
areas without external technical and financial support.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The development under the project of initial policies, strategies and frameworks for
technical and institutional improvements in water management was considered an
important step towards securing eventual long-term sustainability of water sector
developments in the country. Also important was that, through the project, operations for
a successful public works program were developed and demonstrated, and a framework
for future such programs was formulated, all of which was being applied in the
formulating of the proposed and intended follow-on repeater and expansion project.
Finally, the project was seen to be a model of close cooperation and participatory
involvement with and by all concerned parties (national and local government,
implementing agencies and NGOs, communities and beneficiaries, service providers, and
donors).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

A number of unintended or unforeseen positive and very welcome social impacts resulted
from the operations and activities of the project. These included:
• The opening of access to public assistance programs and other social mainstream
   activities to the previously excluded rural poor, through the processing and securing
   of personal identification documents (e.g. passports), social fund and tax system
   registrations, and bank accounts, all of which were needed to formalize the numerous
   individual manual labor contracts and to effect the corresponding payments for
   manual work under the project;
• The provision of funds that would nominally contribute to future pensions for the
   previously excluded rural poor, through the required employer-paid social fund
   contributions, as paid by the project in addition to the manual work wages
• Community infrastructure developments (e.g. school and clinic) that resulted directly
   from income taxes levied on manual work wages and paid on behalf of the workers
   by the project to the oblast tax authority, thus augmenting the oblast budget for public
   works
• The alleviation of important village domestic water supply limitations, through the
   renovation of irrigation canals under the project.
• The improvements in village residences flood proofing and community sanitation
   resulting from the cleaning of drains and lowering of groundwater table levels.


                                            15
•    3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
•    The project’s final impact assessment study included a survey of almost 1,000
     households split almost evenly between beneficiary and non-beneficiary households.
     Key reported findings from the survey and other impact assessment analyses are
     summarized as follows below, while more complete details are given in Annex 513.
•    A total of 10,603 persons, including 1,157 women, from 9,714 vulnerable households
     had worked a total of 402,500 person-days under the manual works employment
     program. Average per person gross and net supplementary earned incomes from the
     project were 1,366 and 1,176 Tajik somoni (286 and 246 US$) respectively. The
     corresponding average supplementary net cash income per household was 1,228 Tajik
     somoni (257 US$), which represented an average of 14.3% percent of the total annual
     household cash income. The supplementary cash income was spent on food products
     (43%), clothing (18%), house and household assets, products, utilities and repairs
     (16%), debt repayments (10%), agricultural inputs (5%), and others (8%).
•    The irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation works comprised the manual
     cleaning of 1,861 km of irrigation canals, the mechanized cleaning of 313 km of
     drainage channels, the installation of 305 irrigation outlet gates and the repair of 5
     pumping stations. This resulted in improved irrigated agriculture conditions over
     44,276 ha of land, benefiting a total of 43,313 rural households.
•    Corresponding indicated impacts on agricultural production included (i) increased
     household farmland yields for rice (21%), vegetables (12%), potato (5%), melons
     (26%), wheat (7%) and other cereals (26%), together with decreased yields for fodder
     crops (-2%) and cotton (-12%); and (ii) increased areas cropped to higher value crops
     including rice (17%), vegetables (7%), potato (12%), melon (20%), fodder crops
     (30%) and cotton (104%), combined with decreased areas cropped to other cereals (-
     12%) or left fallow (-24%).
•    Additional project benefits identified by survey respondents were improved drinking
     water supply (88% and 83% of beneficiary and non-beneficiary households
     respectively), decreased incidence of diseases (35% and 14%), formalizing of
     personal documents (32% and 11%), establishment and use of bank accounts (15%
     and 4%), and improved water management knowledge (14% and 12%).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The project’s intended short-term development outcome was considered as achieved and
therefore risk-free. In assessing the risk to the project’s intended medium- and long-term
development outcomes, a number of separate considerations with associated risks were
identified as follows below. Combining all of these led to estimation that the overall risk
was moderate.


13
  Values given in this report section and in Annex 5 are from the impact assessment report and do not
reflect the later corrections and updates which were presented in the Grantee’s final ICR report and
which are used elsewhere in this report (primarily Annex 2).

                                                 16
•   The reduced scope of the project’s mechanized works, perhaps in particular the
    drainage cleaning works, could lead to lower-than-expected agricultural production
    benefits, but this effect would be somewhat mitigated by subsequent continuing
    works with the project-procured equipment and through follow-on project provisions
    (moderate risk)
•   In spite of a good project TA effort there were still aspects of the formulated water
    management institutional reform that were imperfect, with government still being
    unwilling to adopt international best and proven practices (in the separation of
    regulatory and operational functions, in institutional linkages, in decentralization
    aspects, etc), although efforts to achieve further evolution were expected to occur
    under the follow-on project, which would address institutional developments at both
    national/regional/basin levels (RBOs) and district/scheme/local levels (WUAs)
    (significant risk)
•   It was thought that the economic and financial situation at country and region levels
    was presently marginal, and that this might restrict funding for needed further
    development, operation and maintenance (significant risk)
•   There were no obvious negative environmental or social impacts, and several positive
    ones had been identified (negligible risk)
•   There were obviously high levels of social support, as illustrated by the reports of
    duplication in adjacent areas without project payment incentives (negligible risk)
•   There was at present an excellent degree of higher-level government and ministerial
    support, as reflected in part by the continuing post-project infrastructure rehabilitation
    works (low risk)
•   There were currently strong political motivations to maintain and improve rural
    development in the project area (low risk)

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Project preparation was deemed to have been entirely satisfactory in most of the areas of
concern (e.g. social and environmental, economic and financial, fiduciary and
institutional). Relatively minor identified shortcomings included (i) insufficiently
conservative technical (engineering) quantifications and estimations, (ii) numerical
inconsistencies and non-sequiturs in the PAD quantity, cost and indicator value
presentations, and (iii) non-involvement at that time of the eventual implementing agency.
It was felt that, under the circumstances of the abnormal emergency response project
preparation situation noted in Section 2.1 above, the preparation efforts and results were
commendable, even though the time (9-month) and urgency constraints may not have
allowed full attention to be given to all normally desirable pre-project actions,
considerations and detailing. Also impacting quality at entry were the previously-noted
funding complexities, delays and constraints, including the non-availability of retroactive


                                             17
financing that would have allowed for timely commencement and implementation in
accordance with the planned project schedule.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

It was found that a greater than normal intensity of supervision, facilitation and support
had been provided by the Bank over the full and short (11-month) duration of the project.
There was full-time in-country presence of the team leader and assistant with substantive
day-to-day interactions and involvement with the government and donor stakeholders, the
PMU and other implementation partners. In addition there was a part-time field-based
Bank consultant in place for direct monitoring and oversight of project activities.
Suitable agreements were reached with the government covering appropriate disposition
and use of project-procured machinery, equipment and tools to help with post-project
sustainability of the project investments. No significant shortcomings in safeguard,
procurement, financial management, disbursement and reporting aspects were identified.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In accordance with Bank ICR report guidelines, combining the ratings of Satisfactory for
ensuring quality at entry and Highly Satisfactory for quality of supervision gives a rating
of Satisfactory for overall Bank performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

There was a seemingly unreserved commitment up to and including the highest levels of
government to a timely and successful formulation and implementation of the project and
the full achievement of its objective. There were timely proactive and rapid reactive
interventions and support to secure and resolve institutional cooperation aspects as
needed, including multiple personal interventions by the concerned deputy prime minister.
The high degree of cooperation on the part of all involved national, regional, district and
local government and community entities and organizations was notable. No significant
shortcomings in regulatory, fiduciary, consultative, coordination or post-project support
were identified. Differences between the government and the project on policy and
institutional arrangements for water management remained to be further addressed, but
these did not seem to affect the high level of support of government for the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

                                            18
Seemingly fully appropriate and satisfactory provisions were in place during project
implementation for (i) PMU, PIU and raion/jamoat level engineering works design and
construction supervision with good support consultant arrangements, (ii) contracts letting
and management both for individual manual laborers and for mechanical works and
equipment contractors and suppliers, (iii) beneficiary and community social mobilization,
coordination and monitoring through well-performing local NGOs, (iv) substantive and
successful public awareness and information dissemination through a national NGO, (v)
comprehensive initiation and development of water basin management technical and
institutional improvement efforts through an international consulting firm, (vi)
environmental management and monitoring through a dedicated NGO and PMU/PIU
field staff, and (vii) procurement and financial management. Of particular note were the
rapid and effective establishment and performance of the PIU and the high levels of
cooperation and performance of the principal NGOs. Identified shortcomings included
(i) early difficulties in achieving timely disbursements, and (ii) shortfalls in M&E data
processing and reporting. The effects of these shortcomings were reduced to relatively
minor levels by (i) intensified social interactions to retain beneficiaries’ confidence
during delays in payment for manual labor works, coupled with the application for and
obtaining of the change in the DA limit, and (ii) the engagement of competent consultants
to effect final impact assessment and M&E data collection, compilation, analysis and
reporting tasks. It was felt that, under the extreme circumstances of an intensive
emergency-type project implementation within an unusually short project time-frame, the
performance of the PMU and all contracted implementation partners could be considered
commendable.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In accordance with Bank ICR report guidelines, combining the ratings of Highly
Satisfactory for government performance and Satisfactory for implementing agency
performance gives a rating of Satisfactory for overall Borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons learned from the project experience have been formulated as follows:
•       Approach, Scope and Timeframe for Similar Emergency Response Projects. The
project experience has confirmed the viability of combining a public works approach
with the more conventional contracted works approach to irrigation and drainage
infrastructure rehabilitation. Limiting the scope of emergency interventions to mostly
physical system improvements may have been appropriate in the first instance, but an
early subsequent evolution to sustainable development interventions that include well-
focused institutional and agricultural support programs would seem to be called for. For
emergency-type projects with a prime focus on delivery of immediate short-term benefits,
a short implementation timeframe would seem appropriate, but the physical and financial
scope of the project was such that the specified one-year timeframe with fixed dates was
too short and rigid to ensure full success, even though the desired results were well


                                           19
obtained. A somewhat longer timeframe (say at least 18 months) and greater timing
flexibility would allow for some important improvements including (i) adequate lead
times for proper preparatory social, technical, administrative and baseline M&E activities,
(ii) a full off-season period for more efficient and complete execution of both manual and
mechanized works, (iii) a full cropping and irrigation season for follow-up O&M,
agricultural, community and institutional training and support, and (iv) a final period for
post-implementation M&E activities.
•        Manual Labor Contract and Payment Arrangements. The concepts and processes
developed and applied for contracting and paying for manual labor works under the
project, aimed at ensuring transparency and preventing corruption, were considered to be
sound and replicable for future similar projects. The heavy administrative burden that
was generated by having large numbers of individual contracts is leading to exploration
of possible alternative contracting approaches for the proposed follow-on project,
including (i) a public offer and generic acceptance approach, and (ii) a licensing (patent)
approach. On the payments side however, as indicated by the project’s EU advisor (see
Section 7(b) below), the transparent and accountable system and procedures for effecting
payments to workers through banks and bank accounts worked well and should probably
be retained without change.
•        Social Targeting. For public works programs aimed at providing temporary
manual labor employment as a means of supplementing income for the poorest, most
vulnerable and jobless members of the rural communities, the process of setting and
applying criteria for operation of the programs and selection of beneficiaries is a crucial
and difficult one. As mentioned above (Section 2.4), although the project’s social
targeting was reported as satisfactory, there were also indications of shortfalls in this area.
Items requiring particular attention in the social targeting for similar projects would be (i)
the level of the manual labor wage rate to be adopted vis-à-vis mandated minimum or
local average wage rates for similar work, and (ii) the defining of, and the level of
adherence to, social and economic selection characteristics.
•        Involvement of Women. As learned from the responsible NGOs (see Section 7(c)
below), the already achieved level of inclusion of women workers into the project’s
manual labor force could be further increased in future similar projects by applying a few
simple additional incentive measures including (i) assigning men and women to separate
work fronts and locations, (ii) allocating women workers to the smaller-scale works with
lower lifting and throwing requirements, and (iii) arranging where possible for women to
be assigned to work sites that were close to their homes.
•        Supervision, Facilitation, Coordination and Management Arrangements. The
levels of supervision, facilitation, coordination and management provided by all of the
implementation partners to the project was seemingly very high compared to other types
of development project. A continued similarly high level of support would be considered
desirable for any similar near-future project, since it was judged that the success of what
was a novel type of project was due largely to this intensity of support. One identified
potential improvement would be an increased level of coordination with the labor
ministry for social targeting purposes. The engagement and use of suitable NGOs for key
project implementation tasks would seem to merit repetition, with improvements to
include (i) better NGO contract provisions for needed support services and facilities, and
(ii) earlier and closer NGO involvement in the processes of identification and selection of


                                             20
intervention areas and beneficiaries. Also meriting repetition would be the good field-
level provisions for monitoring by PMU/PIU and NGO field staff, but strengthening of
other M&E aspects would be needed, including developing and applying structures and
procedures for routine field data recording, reporting, checking and transmitting on a
monthly basis, and for corresponding compiling, processing, synthesizing and reporting
at regional and central level, all under the leadership and guidance of a dedicated full-
time project M&E specialist. Eventually, as greater familiarity with this type of project is
gained a reduction in what might be considered as somewhat high overhead inputs could
become appropriate.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing Agencies

The PMU prepared and submitted a draft Grantee’s ICR report. This was reviewed
during the Bank’s initial ICR report drafting period, and resulting comments were
discussed with the PMU. These comments related primarily to some tabular
presentations of data, particularly in relation to details of manual works, payments and
achievements in the second half of the project period, for which clarifications and
corrections were requested. To some (but not to great) extent these were provided in the
final Grantee’s ICR report, reviewed during the Bank’s final ICR report drafting period.
The achieved project outcomes and impacts, and perceived implementation performances
and experiences, as presented in the Grantee’s ICR report, are in essence the same as
those presented in the present ICR report, and there is general agreement that they have
been satisfactory and good. It was communicated to the ICR primary author that the
PMU considered the Bank to have been an integral member of the implementation team
and that its comprehensive involvement and support had been of great value and much
appreciated.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

The EU was the project’s financier. The local EU representation was closely involved
during project preparation and implementation, primarily through the services of a full-
time consultant advisor, and also through supplementary review and monitoring.
Worldwide there had been numerous similar EU-funded and Bank-implemented projects
under the EU Food Crisis Rapid Response Facility. At a joint meeting during the Bank’s
initial ICR report drafting period it was indicated that the project’s good performance and
successful outcome was exceptional compared to the other similar projects, and one
reason given for this was close and good EU/Bank cooperation and working relationships
at the country level. Some doubts were expressed by the EU advisor in regard to the real
level of positive social impact achieved, emerging from the project’s impact assessment
study (issues included survey sample size and targeting, the effect of inflation on the
increased household income, and unclear medium-term agricultural benefit projections).
However, these were not considered to detract from the obviously very high degree of
satisfaction with the project’s impacts and benefits as expressed by the beneficiaries.
Concerning replication and potential follow-on projects, the EU advisor felt that
improvements in some areas may be possible (e.g. beneficiary selections and labor

                                            21
contracts) but that these may not be worth the effort. He also indicated that one item that
should not be changed was the transparent and accountable system of payments for
manual labor through transfers to local banks and distribution to beneficiary bank
accounts, since the setup and operation of this system provided important additional
social inclusion benefits (formal social and tax system registrations, personal
identification documents, bank accounts, and access to government social programs).
Also indicated was a need to enhance the long-term sustainability potential at local level
through ensuring the establishment of well-functioning WUAs.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

During the Bank’s initial ICR report drafting period a meeting was held with the heads
(all women) of three of the project’s NGO implementation partners. One of these had
been responsible for the overall public awareness and consultation aspects of the project,
while the other two had undertaken the project’s social mobilization, coordination and
monitoring activities. All three communicated great satisfaction with the project’s
performance and results, both from their own NGO perspectives and from those of the
local communities with which they had been involved so closely during the course of the
project. Some of the key observations included the following:

•   Initial awareness meetings had totaled 212 in number and covered 70% of the project
    area’s population.
•   Implementation difficulties had included (i) ensuring that labor lists prepared by local
    government for the project satisfied eligibility criteria (vulnerability, joblessness,
    health, age, etc), (ii) obtaining needed official documents for beneficiaries in a very
    short time frame, (iii) poor response by beneficiaries until payments for labor were
    seen to be forthcoming, and (iv) insufficient NGO contract provisions for equipment,
    transportation and other items needed for the very intensive social mobilization effort.
•   Project results had been rapidly seen and felt. Key water supply (both irrigation and
    domestic) constraints had been removed, the alleviation of irrigation water constraints
    and receipt of manual labor income had led directly and immediately to increased
    seed purchases for the next crop, the levels of short-term income to beneficiaries had
    been good and sufficient for needed food and other urgent purchases, and as a
    consequence migrations of men to Russia had been averted.
•   To have had 11% of the project’s manual labor force as women was considered to
    have been a good achievement, and it was also seen to be one that could be readily
    improved in future by arrangements for women to work on the smaller canals closer
    to home and in sections separate from those of the men.
•   Many requests for continuing or additional project activities had been received.




                                            22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)

                                                        Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage
                   Components                          Estimate (1)     Estimate        of
                                                      (USD millions) (USD millions) Appraisal
Component 1 -
Public Works to Renovate I&D Infrastructure                     8.88            8.70      98
Sub-projects selection, design and supervision (2)              0.50            0.95     189
Manual labor employment                                         3.97            3.74      94
Mechanized works                                                3.29            2.81      85
Procurement of material, tools and machinery                    1.12            1.20     107
Component 2 -
Technical Assistance                                            0.60            0.60     100
Component 3 -
Implementation Support, M&E, EU Visibility (3)                  0.53            0.39      74
                                Total Baseline Cost            10.01            9.69      97
Physical Contingencies                                          0.00            0.00      00
Price Contingencies / Exchange Rate Corrections                 0.00            0.17      00
                           Total Project Costs (4)             10.01            9.86      99
Project Preparation and Supervision Costs                       1.46            0.77      53
                        Total Financing Required               11.47           10.63      93

Notes:
(1) USD appraisal estimate values are taken from Annex 4 of the PAD. The equivalent EUR
values given in that Annex 4 differ somewhat from those given in the PAD main text Section C
and in the PAD Annex 3. Hence in this ICR report the same differences (in equivalent USD
values) occur between this Annex 1 and the main text Section 1.5.
(2) Actual/latest costs shown for this line item include all direct implementation support costs
specific to Component 1, which, in addition to engineering planning, design and works
supervision costs, include costs for (i) public and community awareness and information, (ii)
social mobilization and monitoring, covering formation, organization, coordination, operation,
payment facilitation, and technical and administrative monitoring, of the manual works labor
force and activities, (iii) environmental safeguards monitoring and related capacity and awareness
building, and (iv) training and operational support and services for individuals and organizations
involved in Component 1 implementation, administration and management at all levels of
responsibility.
(3) Actual/latest costs shown for this line item include project-level implementation support,
management, administration, operational, training, M&E and public awareness costs.
(4) The project’s currency unit was the Euro. Due to USD-EUR exchange rate changes, the
equivalent USD total project cost of USD 10.01 million at appraisal became USD 10.26 million at
approval and signing. The actual/latest equivalent USD total project cost of USD 9.86 million
corresponds to 96% of the approved amount.




                                               23
(b) Financing

                                                      Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage
                                        Type of
          Source of Funds                             Estimate        Estimate        of
                                      Cofinancing
                                                    (USD millions) (USD millions) Appraisal
Global Food Crisis Response Program                     10.01          9.86          99
Note. The project’s currency and financing unit was the Euro. Due to USD-EUR exchange rate
changes, the equivalent USD total project financing of USD 10.01 million at appraisal became
USD 10.26 million at approval and signing. The actual/latest equivalent USD total project
disbursement of USD 9.86 million corresponds to 96% of the total approved amount.




                                            24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Target and Actually Achieved Indicator Values

                                       Target                                 Percentage
                                                      Actually Achieved
       Indicator          Component   Value from                               of Target                               Comments
                                                       Value (Note 1)
                                         PAD                                   Achieved
 Project Outcome Indicators
                                                                                           PAD rationale for the target value is not apparent. Derivation of the
                                                       43,313, of which
 Households with                                                                           actually achieved values is reportedly through extrapolation from
                                                       9,700 with direct
 improved income              1          25,000                                   173      impact assessment household survey sample results and relevant
                                                         income from
 (number of households)                                                                    statistics, but the provided methodological explanations and
                                                         manual labor
                                                                                           numerical details are not clear and consistent (see Annex 5).
                                                            435,022                        PAD estimations for the target value correspond to the estimated
                                        459,000
 Jobs created by the                                     (indicated as                     volume of excavation (744,044 m3) and an assumed rate of work
                                         (6,950
 project (number of                                   equivalent to 10,590                 (1.62 m3 per person-day). The derived actually achieved value
                                      workers for 3
 working person-days,         1                          workers for 2            95       corresponds to the actual volume of excavation (724,551 m3) and an
                                      months at 22
 only for manual                                      months at an average                 average rate of work (1.67 m3 per person-day). However, the actual
                                      workdays per
 cleaning)                                             of 20.5 workdays                    reported work rate was greater (1.8 m3 per person-day) and would
                                        month)
                                                          per month)                       give a total of 402,528 person-days, which is 88% of target.
                                                                                           PAD estimation for the target value corresponds to the estimated
                                                                                           person-days of work (459,211) and assumed timeframe (3 months).
 Jobs created by the                                                                       The actually achieved value corresponds to the number of
 project (number of                      6,950              10,590                152      individuals contracted for the manual works. Over 90% of the
                              1
 workers employed, only                                                                    works were carried out over a shorter-than-planned timeframe at the
 for manual cleaning)                                                                      end of the winter-spring off-season period, using a larger-than-
                                                                                           planned work force. The remaining works were executed at the start
                                                                                           of the next winter-spring off-season




                                                                             25
                                         Target                           Percentage
                                                     Actually Achieved
       Indicator            Component   Value from                         of Target                                Comments
                                                      Value (Note 1)
                                           PAD                             Achieved
                                                                                       PAD rationale for the target value is not apparent, and the target
Amount of cash
                                                                                       value greatly exceeds the PAD budget cost estimate for manual labor
transferred (product of
                                                                                       work wages. The indicator was therefore interpreted as covering all
USD amount per person                   4,854,000
                             1, 2 & 3                    4,757,663            98       cash transfers under all project contracts not only to individual
and total number of
                                                                                       laborers but also to workers and employees of contractors,
people employed, USD)
                                                                                       consultants, NGOs and the PMU. The actually achieved value was
(Note 2)
                                                                                       derived accordingly.

                                                                                       A    report addressing this issue, “Development of a
Preparation of proposals                                                               comprehensive framework for the introduction of river basin
for the introduction of a
WBM scheme (number              2           1               1                 100
                                                                                       management in Tajikistan and support to local authorities in
of submissions to                                                                      the project area responsible for operation and management of
Government)                                                                            irrigation and drainage schemes?, (Final report), was issued by
                                                                                       BETS Consulting Services Ltd. with date December 2011.
Preparation of proposals
for the implementation                                                                 A report addressing this issue, “Tajikistan’s capacity in
of public works
                              2             1               1                 100
                                                                                       implementing public works programs as a tool of social
programs by                                                                            protection policy in response to the crisis?, prepared by the PMU
government (number of                                                                  with consultant inputs, was issued with date 2011
sets)
Intermediate Outcome Indicators
                                                                                       Mechanized drainage cleaning works. Compared to PAD estimates
                                                                                       there were (i) substantial increases in earthworks unit prices, due to
Improved collector and                                                                 significant fuel price increases, and (ii) large reductions in planned
drainage channels (km           1          576             312.5              54       lengths of collectors and drains to be cleaned, due to major increases
of drains)                                                                             in required earthworks per unit of length, as established by surveys
                                                                                       at the start of the project period. The budget amount for these works
                                                                                       was increased through allocation of savings in operating costs.
Renovated irrigation
                                1         1,825           1,861.5             102      Manual labor canal cleaning works.
canals (km of canals)




                                                                         26
                                        Target                               Percentage
                                                      Actually Achieved
       Indicator           Component   Value from                             of Target                                Comments
                                                       Value (Note 1)
                                          PAD                                 Achieved
                                                                                          Manual labor works. The works could not be carried out due to non-
                                                                                          availability of time. The works required prior completion of
Fortified spillways                       2,630                                           corresponding mechanized drainage cleaning works, and these were
                               1                              0                  0
(number)                                                                                  executed and completed only towards the end of the project period.
                                                                                          The budget amount for these works was allocated to manual labor
                                                                                          renovation of irrigation canals.
                                                                                          Steel gate units supply and installation. Compared to PAD
                                                                                          estimations, a smaller number of often larger and more costly gates
Constructed outlet gates                   503
                               1                             305                 61       was preferred by the responsible jamoats, to include water control
(number)
                                                                                          improvements at critical secondary canal locations and hence to
                                                                                          benefit larger portions of the irrigation network.
                                                                                          Damaged canalette sections replacement in Farkhor district only.
Repaired canalette                                                                        The materials (special sections) for this repair could not be obtained.
                               1           1.1                0                  0
network (km)                                                                              The budget amount for this work was allocated to procurement of
                                                                                          pump equipment for pumping station repairs.
                                                                                          Concrete covered collector repairs in Gayrat jamoat, Farkhor district
Improved covered                                                                          only. These were not executed due to a local authority decision to
collector and drainage         1           0.7                0                  0        undertake the works themselves. The budget amount for this work
channels (km)                                                                             was allocated to procurement of pump equipment for pumping
                                                                                          station repairs.
                                                                                          PAD estimations were based on envisaged very minor repairs at
                                                                                          each pumping station. It was later judged that these were unlikely to
Repaired pump stations                                                                    have more than very short-term effectiveness. The responsible
                               1           14                 5                  36
(number)                                                                                  jamoats preferred to have more substantial and more costly but
                                                                                          longer-lasting repairs effected at a reduced number of pumping
                                                                                          stations (agreed at one per district).
                                                          Satisfactory
                                       Satisfactory
Efficient and effective                               supervision ratings
                               3       supervision                               100
project management                                     at the time of the
                                         ratings
                                                        final ISR report



                                                                            27
                                             Target                                Percentage
                                                            Actually Achieved
       Indicator            Component       Value from                              of Target                                 Comments
                                                             Value (Note 1)
                                               PAD                                  Achieved
Notes
1. Actually achieved values presented above correspond to those given in the Grantee’s final ICR report, which was issued following project closure and thus reflected
the final end-of-project situation. As such they sometimes differ from those presented in the final project impact assessment and M&E reports.
2. A further key project outcome indicator, average income per beneficiary, was specified in the PAD but was not assigned a corresponding target value. It is assumed
that the intention was to reflect the average gross wage earnings per person engaged in the manual cleaning works. From the PAD estimations of total manual labor
wages (EUR 2,937,037, equivalent to USD 3,965,000 at the PAD currency exchange rates) and of total number of workers (6,957), it is deduced that the target value
would have been equivalent to USD 570 per worker. The actually achieved value, based on the actual total payments for wages including all social fund contributions
(about TJS 18,114,000, equivalent to USD 3,793,354 at the ICR report currency exchange rates) and the actual total number of workers (10,590), is equivalent to USD
358, which is 63% of the target value. Actually achieved indicator values derived in USD as above are approximate if they do not reflect currency exchange rates that
were applicable at the time of actual payments




                                                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Review and revision of the economic analysis carried out during project preparation and
presented in the PAD showed little overall difference between forecast and actual
economic returns and indicated a significant economic return to project investment.

Financial Benefits

The farm level returns and production costs used to estimate the project financial benefits
during project preparation were considered representative of medium-term trends and so
were not changed for the end-of-project revision. While cotton prices increased
noticeably in 2011, they are expected to fall back towards medium-term trends in 2012-
2013. The area allocations and conservative yield trends used to estimate project financial
benefits at the time of project preparation were also considered to be still representative,
including a projected marked fall in the area allocated to cotton production in response to
the freedom to farm ruling and the implementation of the cotton debt resolution.

Economic Returns

The economic analysis was revised to reflect the following differences between planned
and actual project implementation.

(1)   The irrigated area that benefited from the public works program was estimated at
      44,276 ha, versus the area of 48,714 ha estimated during project preparation. This
      difference is considered reasonable given the difficulties attached to arriving at the
      original estimate with the limited time and information available during project
      preparation.
(2)   A reduction in the funds available for total project expenditure, from US$ 10.462
      million to US$ 10.01 million, due to changes in the Euro-US$ exchange rate.
(3)   A significant change in the timing of project disbursements due to delays in project
      initiation. The initial economic analysis assumed 80% disbursement during 2010
      and 20% in 2011. In fact, almost 100% of disbursement occurred during 2011.

These changes resulted in a slight decrease in the expected net present value (ENPV), a
slight increase in net incremental benefits per ha, and a slight increase in the expected
internal rate of return (EIRR) -- as shown below.

                                                 Projected Returns     Revised Returns
 ENPV Net Incremental Benefits (US$)                10,417,153            9,804,070
 ENPV Net Incremental Benefits per ha of                214                  221
 Total Irrigation Area (US$)
 EIRR                                                 23.23%                25.43%
 Benefit to Cost Ratio                                 5.33                  5.56




                                            29
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
           Names                                 Title                 Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
 Safinaz El Hag El Tahir Ahmed   Rural Development Specialist          ECSS1
 Alexander Balakov               Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSO2
 Arcadii Capcelea                Senior Environmental Specialist       ECSS3
 Farzona Mukhitdinova            E T Temporary                         ECCTJ
Jeren Kabayeva                   ET Consultant                         ECSS1
 Shodi Nazarov                   Financial Management Analyst          ECSO3
 Beaulah C. Noble                Program Assistant                     CSBGP
 Gotz A. Schreiber               Consultant                            ECSSD
 Bekzod Shamsiev                 Senior Agriculture Economist          SASDA
 Bobojon Yatimov                 Senior Rural Development Specialist   ECSS1
Usaid El-Hanbali                 Water Resources Eng., Consultant      ECSSD
Supervision/ICR
 Bobojon Yatimov                 Senior Rural Development Specialist   ECSS1
 Bekzod Shamsiev                 Senior Agriculture Economist          SASDA
Jeren Kabayeva                   Operations Analyst                    ECSS1
 Alexander Balakov               Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSO2
 Arcadii Capcelea                Senior Environmental Specialist       ECSS3
 Farzona Mukhitdinova            E T Temporary                         ECCTJ
 Shodi Nazarov                   Financial Management Analyst          ECSO3
 Beaulah C. Noble                Program Assistant                     CSBGP
Usaid El-Hanbali                 Water Resources Eng., Consultant      ECSSD
Michael Sandoz                   Water Resources Eng., Consultant




(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                              USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                             9.31                     153,567.49
                                 Total:                                        153,567.49
Supervision/ICR                                     0.35                         646.24
                                 Total:                                         646.24




                                                  30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The project impact assessment study was carried out towards the end of the project period.
It comprised analyses of (i) project records covering the manual labor beneficiaries,
contracts and achievements, (ii) project records covering the mechanized works contracts
and achievements, (iii) a survey of almost 1,000 beneficiary and non-beneficiary
households in the project area, and (iv) jamoat-level project area statistical crop
production data. The impact assessment report provides conclusions on several items
including (i) the level of cash-for-work transfers to beneficiaries, and the uses made of
this supplementary income by the beneficiary households, (ii) the additional indirect
(non-cash) benefits accruing to beneficiary households, (iii) the project’s impact on crop
production, and (iv) implementation issues including participation and selection aspects.

The beneficiary survey covered 958 households in 10 jamoats, split almost evenly
between beneficiary (510) and non-beneficiary (448) households. Analysis of household
characteristics showed no substantive differences between the beneficiary and non-
beneficiary households. It was said that this could be taken as an indication that
beneficiary selection may not have succeeded in targeting the poorest households. On the
other hand, based on the values of three key indicators (cash income, land ownership and
livestock ownership), it was shown that in the order of 75% of the households in both
groups fell into the lower wealth categories of households.

Key reported findings from the survey of beneficiary households and other impact
assessment analyses are summarized as follows below.

•   A total of 10,603 persons, including 1,157 women, from 9,714 vulnerable households
    had worked a total of 402,500 person-days under the manual works employment
    program. Average per person gross and net supplementary incomes earned from the
    program were 1,366 and 1,176 Tajik somoni (286 and 246 US$) respectively. The
    corresponding average supplementary net cash income per household was 1,228 Tajik
    somoni (257 US$), which represented an average of 14.3% percent of the total annual
    household cash income. The supplementary cash income was spent on food products
    (43%), clothing (18%), house and household assets, products, utilities and repairs
    (16%), debt repayments (10%), agricultural inputs (5%), and others (8%).
•   The irrigation and drainage infrastructure rehabilitation works comprised the manual
    cleaning of 1,861 km of irrigation canals, the mechanized cleaning of 313 km of
    drainage channels, the installation of 305 irrigation outlet gates and the repair of 5
    pumping stations. This resulted in improved irrigated agriculture conditions over
    44,276 ha of land, benefiting a total of 43,313 rural households.
•   Corresponding indicated impacts on agricultural production included (i) increased
    household farmland yields for rice (21%), vegetables (12%), potato (5%), melons
    (26%), wheat (7%) and other cereals (26%), together with decreased yields for fodder
    crops (-2%) and cotton (-12%); and (ii) increased areas cropped to higher value crops
    including rice (17%), vegetables (7%), potato (12%), melon (20%), fodder crops
    (30%) and cotton (104%), combined with decreased areas cropped to other cereals (-
    12%) or left fallow (-24%).


                                           31
•   Additional project benefits identified by survey respondents were improved drinking
    water supply (88% and 83% of beneficiary and non-beneficiary households
    respectively), decreased incidence of diseases (35% and 14%), formalizing of
    personal documents (32% and 11%), establishment and use of bank accounts (15%
    and 4%), and improved water management knowledge (14% and 12%).

Extract from the Final Report on PAMP Impact Assessment, December 2011, covering
the derivation of values for the numbers of households with improved income:

2.6. Coverage of households by the project

Initially it was expected that the Project will employ 6950 members of poor households
(direct beneficiaries) and including indirect beneficiary households (households which
members did not participate in public works program of the Project, but receive benefit
from increased crops yield as the result of improved irrigation and collector and drainage
infrastructure) the Project will cover 25 000 households.

Totally under the Public Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and Water
Management Project 10 603 members of poor households were temporary employed
which is 53% more than target objective.

While preparation of the survey households’ lists the number of beneficiary households
was determined for 10 survey jamoats. If during the first stage of public works February
– April number of participants was 3210 people, then they represented 2851 households.
Total number of households in these jamoats according to statistics data as of January 1,
2011 is 24066, and total number of households in all five project districts is 84511. Based
on these data by extrapolating calculated the total number of direct beneficiary
households for all districts:

Total number of beneficiary households = 2851/24066*84511=9251 households

In November additionally 521 new participants were employed for the second stage of
public works. Using the proportion of beneficiary households and participants, the
number of additional beneficiary households can be calculated:

Number of additional beneficiary households =2851/3210*521=463 households

In general 9714 households are the direct beneficiaries of the Project.

Since the rehabilitation work under the Project covers from 25% to 85% irrigation and
collector and drainage infrastructure of the project jamoats, then all households located in
the project area will receive benefits from increased crops’ yields as the response to
improved irrigation and collector and drainage infrastructure. Including indirect
beneficiaries, total number of beneficiary households composes 43 313 or 51% of total
number of households in the project districts. This indicator is 73% more than target
objective.


                                            32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable. A stakeholder workshop was not carried out.




                                         33
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Unofficial translation of the Letter received from Mr. R. Bobokalonov, Minister of Land
Reclamation and Water Resources Management of the Republic of Tajikistan

To:    Ms. Marsha Olive
       Country Manager
       World Bank Country Office
       Republic of Tajikistan

From: Mr. R.Bobokalonov
      Minister
      Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Resources Management
      Republic of Tajikistan

Ref. No. 1-835                                                              June 15, 2012

       Dear Ms. Marsha Olive,

The Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Resources Management of the Republic of
Tajikistan presents its compliments to the World Bank Country Office in Tajikistan and
hereby provides its comments to the Implementation Completion Report for the Public
Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and Watershed Management Project.

This project was financed by the European Union Trust Fund in response to the food
price crises and implemented in five districts of Khatlon region. The Ministry is quite
satisfied with the outcome of the joint efforts. The project was designed and implemented
in close cooperation and under direct supervision of the World Bank, in particular its
Country Office in the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as the representative of the
European Union.

Though the project was the first large-scale initiative aimed at providing employment
opportunities in the irrigation sector in Tajikistan, it managed to fully achieve its key
project objectives despite the limited period for its implementation and, to a greater
extent, succeeded in achieving its intermediate objectives. Thus, the project created
temporary jobs for 10590 local residents. In the irrigation sector, the project facilitated
renovation and cleaning of nearly 1861,5 km of irrigation canals (which remained
uncleaned for 10-20 years) and helped improve 312,5 km of collector and drainage
networks. Besides, some 305 outlet gates were constructed and 5 pumping stations (one
per district) were repaired under the project. It has to be noted that slight deviation from

                                            34
the PAD estimates, mainly related to mechanized works, resulted from substantial
increase in earthworks unit prices, due to significant fuel price increases, which in their
turn required large reductions in planned lengths of collectors and drains to be cleaned,
due to major increases in required earthworks per unit of length. The budget amount for
these works was decided to be increased taking account of the fixed project budget.
However, all planned prioritized works were executed and completed within the
remaining project implementation period.

It is also worth mentioning that the project supported procurement of the required
machinery, which was delivered only towards the end of the project period due to
extended discussions on the suitable machinery types and specifications and delayed
procurement and supply. Nevertheless, we are glad to note that the procured machinery
was transported and immediately mobilized to the various districts of the project area. At
the end of the project period the machinery was put to intensive use (during February-
April of 2012) in further priority cleaning of canals and drains, with fuel and salary costs
being met from non-project sources.

We are pleased to note that the Project Management Unit together with its regional office
(PIU) in Khatlon region closely cooperated with public institutions, including the
Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Resources Management, local departments of
the ministry (oblvodkhozes and raivodkhozes), regional and local executive authorities
and Jamoats, existing Water Users Associations (WUAs), working groups leading
agricultural reform, as well as developed partnership with the civil society through NGO
involvement in project implementation. It is only close cooperation and support at all
levels that allowed successful disbursement of project funds within a limited time frame.

Special accent should be put on the Technical Assistance Component of the project that
was aimed to prepare for the introduction of a Water Basin Management (WBM) system.
Based on the review of the normative documents and discussions with the representatives
of the ministerial working group leading the water sector reform and donor community
the team of international experts prepared a report, which included the following issues:
(i) delineation of basins, (ii) outlining of institutional roles, responsibilities and structures,
and (iii) formulating of recommendations for effecting a transition from the current
system to the new one. At present the Ministry is getting on with the work associated
with institutional development of organizations responsible for water resources
management, including establishment of a pilot River Basin Organization (RBO) and
local branches responsible for operation and maintenance of water-management systems.

                                               35
Implementation of the Public Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and Watershed
Management Project stimulated the Government of Tajikistan to prepare a project
proposal to be possible funded by the World Food Program, which in the second round
was considered eligible for financing in the amount of US$ 27,9 million. The proposed
project is expected to start at the turn of 2012, and its preparation is based on the success
of and the lessons learned from the predecessor project.

We are grateful to the World Bank experts for the highly satisfactory rating given in the
ICR report for the Government’s performance and implementation of this project and
consider it as the outcome of the joint efforts of the Government of Tajikistan, European
Union, PMU and the World Bank. On behalf of the Ministry we would like to assure the
World Bank Country Office in the Republic of Tajikistan of our readiness to implement
new projects aimed at further development of the water sector in Tajikistan.

The Ministry of Land Reclamation and Water Resources Management of the Republic of
Tajikistan avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the World Bank Country Office in
the Republic of Tajikistan the assurances of its high consideration.



Minister                                                     R. Bobokalonov




                                             36
Unofficial translation of the Letter received from Mr. G. Avzalov, Chairman of Khatlon
Region

To: Mrs. Marsha Olive
World Bank Country Manager for Tajikistan


Dear Mrs. Olive,

We would like to express our sincere appreciation for your continued assistance in
implementation of the projects in Khatlon oblast. The local government is ready to fully
support promotion and implementation of these projects, especially in agriculture which
employs about 70% of the population.

We are grateful for the opportunity to express our opinion of completion report on
“Public employment for sustainable agriculture and water management project? in five
districts of Khatlon oblast (Shaartuz, Kabadiyan, Kumsangir, Farkhor, Vakhsh) in 2010-
2011. This project has brought tangible and real benefits to the population of these
districts. The project created a short-term public employment for more than 10 000
people increasing their income through wages, improved irrigation, reduced
waterlogging and soil, eventually increased agricultural productivity. The
implementation of the project was completed in time, and we repeatedly pointed out this
fact in the meetings with the representatives of the World Bank and the European Union.
It is encouraging that the Bank supported the idea of the Khatlon local government to
react to the possible consequences of the economic crisis in the Russian Federation,
massive return of migrants to the republic, in particular.

The project was implemented by the Project Management Center of the Ministry of Land
Reclamation and Water Resources, and by its regional office in the city of Kurgan-Tube.
The government of the oblast assisted in project implementation at the jamoat and
mahalla levels, particularly in the timely preparation of reliable list of beneficiaries.

The positive impact of the project, which was observed at the initial stage of
implementation, was provision of the population with temporary employment to perform
manual work and a corresponding gradual increase in income received by most
vulnerable rural population in target areas in a critical situation they had found
themselves. The situation was caused by negative phenomena and processes which had
resulted in reducing income. At the same time, performing manual and additional
mechanical work contributed to a significant restoration of irrigation and drainage
facilities, which as expected, would contribute to medium-term benefits from increased

                                           37
agricultural production and incomes of farms, protect residential areas from flooding and
improve sanitary conditions in communities through improving water supply, drainage,
increasing the acreage and potential increase in yield of agricultural crops.

Perception of project social success was supported by the fact that some jamoats began
voluntarily and independently replicate this project without involving technical and
financial assistance from the outside

For the last 15-20 years the irrigation system, especially on-farm one, has been largely
deteriorated due to high operating costs. According to the latest data about 683.9 km of
irrigation and approximately 295.2 km of drainage channels in Khatlon oblast require
cleaning and repair. The project repaired and cleaned 1861.5 kilometers of irrigation
canals, treatment of which had not been carried out for 10-20 years. Measures were also
taken to clean 312.5 kilometers of the drainage system, 305 gates in the turnout structure
were installed and 5 pumping stations were reconstructed. Machinery was also
purchased, which was delivered on time and immediately moved to the project areas.
Since completion of the project in February-April the machinery has been actively used
for further purification of the priority channels and drains at the request of the
consumers. As for today the local hukumats have used this equipment to clean 156.6
kilometers of the irrigation network and 164.2 kilometers of the drainage systems. These
facilities have been completely prepared for the current season.

Taking this opportunity, we would like to thank the World Bank for the support in
preparing a financial proposal of the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program,
which has been approved and allocated $27.9 million. We hope that our cooperation in
this project will be as successful and fruitful as ever.




Chairman of Khatlon oblast                                         G. Avzalov




                                           38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Feedback from the EU colleagues was requested but not received prior to the ICR report
submission deadline.




                                          39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


•     World Bank, Emergency Project Paper, Report No. 52468-TJ, Public
Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and Water Management Project, May 20, 2010

•       World Bank, aide-memoires for (i) launch mission of November/December 2010,
(ii) midterm review of April/May 2011, (iii) implementation support mission of October
2011, and (iv) implementation completion review mission of November/December 2011

•      European Union, monitoring report, April 2011

•       Project Management Unit / Svetlana Livinetc, Final Report on Monitoring and
Evaluation, Public Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and Water Management
Project, December 2011

•     Project Management Unit / Jovidon Aliev, Final Report on PAMP Impact
Assessment, December 2011

•     Project Management Unit / BETS Consulting Services Ltd., Development of a
Comprehensive Framework for Introduction of River Basin Management in Tajikistan,
December 2011

•      Project Management Unit, Component 2 - Technical Assistance, Tajikistan’s
Capacity in Implementing Public Works Programs as a Tool of Social Protection Policy
in Response to the Crisis, 2011

•      Project Management Unit, Implementation Completion Report, Project on Public
Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and Water Management, (i) Draft, February
2012, and (ii) Final, April 2012




                                         40
                                                 68°E                                                                 70°E                                                                         Rayons
                                                               KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tursunzoda
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Shahrinav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Murghob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Nosir Khusrav
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 39 Kulob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40 Baljuvon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 41 Moskva
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAJ IK ISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    3   Rudaki             22   Shahrituz        42 Shurobod                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                    4   Hissor             23   Qabodiyon        43 Khovaling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AUTONOMOUS OBLAST CENTER*
                                                                                                                                                                                                    5   Varzob             24   Jilikul          44 Muminobod
                                                                                                                                                                                                    6   Fayzobod           25   Khuroson         45 Pandjakent                             OBLAST CENTERS
                                                                                                        To                                                                                          7   Vahdat             26   Qumsangir        46 Ayni
                                                                                                     Tashkent                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                  TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                        8   Roghun             27   Bokhtar          47 Shahriston
                                                                                                                                                                                                    9   Nurobod            28   Kolkhozobod      48 Zafarobod                              MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                    57                                Andijon                      10   Rasht              29   Jomi             49 Istaravshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
                                                                                                                         Fergana                                                                   11   Tojikobod          30   Vakshs           50 Ghonchi
                                                                            To                                             Valley Dary                     UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                      JAMOAT (SUB-DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                                                                                                   12   Tavildara          31   Yovon            51 Spitamen
                                                                         Tashkent                                 Taboshar                r
                                                                                                52                                   Sy                           To                               13   Jirgatol           32   Sarband          52 Matchin
                                                                                                                                                                Andijon                                                                                                                    RAYON (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                55                                                                                 14   Darvoz             33   Panj             53 Jabor Rasulob
                                                                                                                  Kayrakkum                                                                        15   Vanj               34   Danghara         54 Kuhistoni Mastchoh                     AUTONOMOUS OBLAST BOUNDARY*
                                                                                                Khodjand           Reservoir           Konibodom                                                   16   Ishkoshim          35   Farkhor          55 Ghafurov
                                                                                                     Chkolovsk                 56                                                                                                                                                          OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                   17   Roshtqala          36   Norak            56 Konibodom
                                                   To                    48                     51 53                                  58                                                          18   Rushon             37   Vose             57 Asht                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
           40°N                                  Bukhoro
                                                                                   49                                                                                                              19   Shughnon           38   Sovet            58 Isfara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40°N
                                                                                        Ura-                                                                             To                                                                                                      * Area with no oblast-level administrative divisions,
                                        SOGD                                            Tyube                                                                         Kyzyl-Kiya              72°E                                                                                 where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.


              To
                                       REGION                                           50                                                                                          KY RGY Z REP.
            Bukhoro                                                       47                                                                                                                                                                                             74°E
                                                                                                                                                                                          To                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                       Sary-Tash                                           Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0      20      40       60      80 Kilometers
                                                                                                             an
                                   Pendzhikent                                                       Zeravsh
                                                             Ayni                                           54
                                          45                                                          ge
                                                                        46
                                                                                   i-        Ran                                                          Jirgatal'          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pik Lenin                                             0           20            40           60 Miles

                                                                               Ala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (7134 m )
                                                                                                                                    10
                                                               Tr   ans                                                        Rasht                                                 Pik Imeni                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                                     11                         Ismail Samani                                          Karakul'
                                                                                                                                                                                   (7495 m )
                                                                                                    Komsomolabad

                                                                               5                7                       9                                       12
                            Region under                            4                                        8
                           direct Republic                                                                 Obigarm                                                                                                         GHORNO-
                                                     1 DUSHANBE                                                                                     14
                           subordination                 2                                       6                                                                                                                     BADAKHSHAN                                                       Rangkul'
                                                                                                                40                            Kalaikhum                                  Pik Revolution
                                                                                                 Nurek                 43                                                    Vanj 15
                                                                                                                                                                                             (6,974 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A.O.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHI N A
            UZ B E K IS TAN                                                                  36                                                                                    P                              ng    Rukhch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          20
                                                                3                                                                                                                         a                     ta                                      Murgab Murgab




                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                31
                                                                                                                                                                                                   m




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ba
                                                                                                                                        j
                                                                                                                                    Pan




                                                                                                                         44
                                                                    25                                38                                                                                                    i              Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sarezskoye                                                                                                        38°N
           38°N
                                                                                           34                                                                                                        18            r
                                                                          29                        Kulyab 39                                                                                                          s
                                                                             32                                        42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ak
                                                                        27 Kurgan-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ksu
                                                                                                      37
                   To                                                      Tyube                                                                                                                                                                     Alichur
                  Qarshi                                                                                        41
                                                             24             30                             Moskovskiy
                                              22                                                                                                                                                        19
                                                    Garavuti                               35                                                                                                                                                           Pamir
                                                                         28
                                                                                                                                                                                   Khorog
                                                      23
                                                                                                                                 KHATLON
                                         Shahrtuz                   26              33
                                                                                                                                  REGION
                                                       h




                                                                                        Pyanj
                                                     Vakhs




                                         21                                                                                                                                     Andarob                     Pik Karl Marx
                                                                                                                                                                                                              (6723 m )
                                                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vrang
                                                                                                                                                                                                       nj
                                                                                To                                                                                                                   Pa
                                                                              Baghlan                                                                                                   16
                                                                                                                                                                                   Ishkashim




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33493R
                                                                                          AF GHA NISTA N                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
MAY 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                                        PAKISTAN                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                          68°E                                                                       70°E                                                                      72°E                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
