                                                         CONFORMED COPY


                                        FPCR TF GRANT NUMBER TF097691




        Food Price Crisis Response
               Trust Fund
            Grant Agreement
(Public Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and water Management Project)


                                  between



                       REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN



                                     and

            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
        acting as Trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund




                          Dated September 3, 2010
                                              FPCR TF GRANT NUMBER TF097691

                        FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSE
                       TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT


       AGREEMENT dated September 3, 2010, entered into between the REPUBLIC
OF TAJIKISTAN (“Recipient?) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (“World Bank? or “IDA?), acting as the Trustee of the Food Price Crisis
Response Trust Fund.

        The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

         WHEREAS: (A) The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, having satisfied
itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, has requested the World Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;

         (B)   By Resolution of May 29, 2008, of the Executive Directors of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International
Development Association, the World Bank has established the Food Price Crisis
Response Trust Fund (“FPCR?) to assist in financing programs in member countries of
the World Bank aimed at reducing the negative impact of high food prices on the lives of
the poor; and

        (C)     the International Development Association, acting as trustee of the
FPCR, has determined that the Project falls within the purposes of the FPCR and wishes
to provide the financial assistance for the Project on the terms and conditions provided
for under this Agreement.

        The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows:

                                     Article I
                          Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01.   The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various
        Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions?), constitute an integral part of
        this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
        this Agreement and the following additional terms have the following meanings:

        (a)     “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
                Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans
                                 2


      and IDA Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 with the
      modifications set forth in Appendix to this Agreement.

(b)   “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and
      Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the
      Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

(c)   “EMP? means the environmental management plan adopted by the
      Recipient, disclosed in the Bank’s Infoshop on May 25, 2010, and
      satisfactory to the World Bank, in respect of activities to be undertaken
      under the Project defining details of measures to manage potential
      environmental risks and mitigate, reduce and/or offset adverse
      environmental impacts associated with the implementation of activities
      under the Project, together with adequate institutional, monitoring and
      reporting arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of,
      and regular feedback on compliance with, its terms, including pest
      management measures, as the same may be amended and supplemented
      from time to time with the World Bank’s prior written approval.

(d)   “PMU? means the project management unit established pursuant to the
      Decree of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan No. 493 of
      December 27, 2005, or any successor thereto.

(e)   “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement under
      IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? published by the Bank in May 2004 and
      revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

(f)   “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the
      Project, dated May 20, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the
      Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant
      Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance
      with the provisions of said paragraphs.

(g)   “Project Operational Manual? means the Project’s operational manual,
      satisfactory to the World Bank, referred to in Section 5.01(a) of this
      Agreement, and setting out the operational and administrative procedures
      for the implementation of the Project, which shall include a financial
      management manual and chart of accounts for the Project, as the same
      may be amended from time to time by agreement between the World
      Bank and the Recipient.
                                           3


                                       Article II
                                      The Project

2.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described
        in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project?). To this end, the Recipient, through
        PMU, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II
        of the Standard Conditions.

2.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                                      Article III
                                      The Grant

3.01.   The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to seven
        million four hundred sixteen thousand and seven hundred fifty Euros
        (Euro 7,416,750) (“Grant?) to assist in financing the Project.

3.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with
        Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

3.03.   The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank
        receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard
        Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the
        availability of such funds.

                                      Article IV
                                 Additional Remedies

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the
        Standard Conditions consists of the following:

        (a)     The Recipient has failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact that
                such payment may have been made by a third party) of the principal,
                interest, service charges or any other amount due to IDA or IBRD: (i)
                under this Agreement; or (ii) under any other agreement between the
                Recipient and IDA; or (iii) under any agreement between the Recipient
                and IBRD; or (iv) in consequence of any guarantee extended or other
                financial obligation of any kind assumed by IDA or IBRD to any third
                party with the agreement of the Recipient.
                                              4


        (b)     The World Bank has determined, after the Effective Date referred to in
                Section 5.03 of this Agreement, that prior to such date but after the date of
                this Agreement, an event has occurred which would have entitled the
                World Bank to suspend the Recipient’s right to make withdrawals from the
                Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective on the date such event
                occurred.

                                             Article V
                                    Effectiveness; Termination

5.01.   This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World
        Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that:

        (a)     the Project Operational Manual satisfactory to the World Bank has been
                adopted by the Recipient; and

        (b)     the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient
                have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.

5.02.   As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a), there shall be
        furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World Bank
        of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, a
        certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the Member
        Country, showing, on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly
        authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally
        binding upon it in accordance with its terms.

5.03.   Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement
        shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the
        Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01
        (“Effective Date?). If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which
        would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make
        withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the
        World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section
        until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.

5.04.   Termination for Failure to Become Effective. This Agreement and all obligations
        of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect by the date
        ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after
        consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of
        this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
        date.
                                          5


                                      Article VI
                        Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard
        Conditions is the Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
        is:

               Ministry of Finance
               3 Akademikov Rajabovikh Ave.
               Dushanbe, 734025
               Republic of Tajikistan

                                                               Facsimile:

                                                               (992-372) 213329 or
                                                               (992-372) 221-6796

6.03.   The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
        is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable:                  Telex:                  Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI) or         1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
                                             6


           AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above
written.

                          REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN




                                          By /s/ Safarali Najmuddinov

                                                                  Authorized Representative




                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            acting as Trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund




                                          By /s/ Chiara Bronchi

                                                                  Authorized Representative
                                               7


                                       SCHEDULE 1

                                    Project Description


       The objectives of the Project is to assist the Recipient to generate temporal
 employment and rehabilitate irrigation and drainage infrastructure in selected districts in
 the Khatlon Oblast as a means to increase household food security.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Renovation of Infrastructure for Irrigation and Drainage

1.      Carrying out works for renovating and rehabilitating on-farm irrigation canals and
off-farm drainage infrastructure in areas with food insecurity that have agricultural
potential.

2.       Provision of goods and equipment for carrying out said renovations and
rehabilitations as well as for carrying out sustainable water management practices,
including procuring water measuring devices.

Part B: Development of a Water-Basin Management System and the Enhancement of the
        Recipient’s Capacity in Carrying Out Public Work Programs

1.      Provision of technical assistance and training to the Recipient to develop and
implement a sustainable water-basin management system.

2.       Provision of technical assistance and training to the Recipient to build its
capacity in carrying out public work programs.

Part C: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

         Provision of technical assistance and goods to the Recipient for carrying out project
management, monitoring and evaluation, as well as for carrying out Project activities
pertaining to procurement and financial management, including carrying out a nation-wide
public information campaign for the purposes of explaining the benefits of the Project.
                                             8


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                    Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional and Other Arrangements

1.       The Recipient, through PMU, shall carry the Project in a timely manner in
accordance with the Project Operational Manual and the EMP, and apply and implement,
as the case may be, the actions, criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements therein set
forth; and not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived the Project
Operational Manual or the EMP, except with the prior written approval of the World
Bank.

2.      At all times during the implementation of the Project, the Recipient shall
maintain the PMU with a composition, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to
the World Bank.

3.      Not later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, the Recipient, through the
PMU, shall prepare and send to the World Bank for review, an annual work plan and
budget for the Project. Thereafter, the Recipient, through the PMU, shall, not later than
December 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project, submit to the World
Bank an annual work plan and budget for the following calendar year, and shall agree
with the World Bank on activities to be taken under the Project in the following calendar
year and the related budget.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

C.      Donor Visibility and Verification

        Donor Visibility and Verification. (a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be
taken all such measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly
the Donor’s support for the Project.

        (b)      For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the
Recipient shall, upon the World Bank’s request, take all measures required on its part to
enable the representatives of the Donor(s) to visit any part of the Recipient’s territory for
purposes related to the Project.
                                             9



Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports; Completion Report

1.      The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the World Bank. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the
World Bank not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period covered by such
report.

2.      The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be
furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date.

B.      Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits

1.     The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions.

2.       The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form
and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.

3.       The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient. The
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

        (a)     General. All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in:

                (i)      Section I (excluding paragraph 1.16) of the Procurement
                         Guidelines in the case of goods and works;

                (ii)     Sections I (excluding paragraph 1.24) and IV of the Consultant
                         Guidelines in the case of consultants’ services; and
                                          10


               (iii)   the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in
                       the procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by
                       the Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16
                       of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the
                       Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan?).

        (b)     Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of
this Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the
World Bank of particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

       (c)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

               (i)     Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods
                       and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
                       basis of International Competitive Bidding.

               (ii)    The following methods, other than International Competitive
                       Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods and works for
                       those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (A) National
                       Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set
                       forth in the Annex to this Schedule 2; (B) Shopping; (C) Direct
                       Contracting; and (D) Community Participation.

       (d)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

               (i)     Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’
                       services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
                       of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

               (ii)    The following methods may be used for the procurement of
                       consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified
                       in the Procurement Plan: (A) Selection based on Consultants’
                       Qualifications; (B) Single-Source Selection; and (C) Selection of
                       Individual Consultants.

       (e)      Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. The Procurement
Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior
Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
                                             11


Section IV.     Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

A.      General

1.      The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May 2006, as
revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement
pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in
paragraph 2 below.

2.      The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category?), the allocations of the amounts of
the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible
Expenditures in each Category:

                                                                       Percentage of
                                  Amount of the Grant               Expenditures to be
                                       Allocated                         Financed
          Category                (expressed in Euros)              (exclusive of Taxes)

 (1) Goods, works and                   4,096,750                          100%
     consultants’ services
     under Parts A, B and
     C of the Project
 (2) Operating costs and                3,320,000                          100%
     Training under Parts
     A, B and C of the
     Project


     TOTAL AMOUNT                       7,416,750


For the purposes of this Schedule:

          (a)     “Training? means expenditures for Project related to study tours, training
courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under goods or
service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and equipment
rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers; and

       (b)      “Operating Costs? means incremental operating costs incurred by PMU,
as appropriate, on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring,
                                            12


including salaries of PMU staff and contractual workers that are not civil servants, office
and equipment maintenance and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, local travel,
communication, translation and interpretation, bank charges, social charges, the costs of
audits for the PMU, and other miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project, all
based on periodic budgets acceptable to the World Bank, but excluding salaries of staff of
the Recipient’s civil service.

B.      Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement by the Recipient.

2.    The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is
December 31, 2011.
                                            13


                                       ANNEX
                                         To
                                     SCHEDULE 2

       National competitive bidding procedures of the Recipient may be used for
procurement of works under the Project provided that the following provisions are
complied with:

1.       Works, for which this Agreement allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan “ n Public Procurement of Goods, Works and
Services?, dated March 3, 2006 (“the Law?). These provisions, in order to ensure
economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the provisions included in
Section I of the Guidelines (as required by paragraphs. 3.3 of the Guidelines), shall be
modified as set forth in the following paragraphs.

        Entity responsible for carrying out the procurement

2.       The procurement shall be carried out by the “procuring entity? as defined in
Article. 9 of the Law), without any involvement of the Authorized Body on Public
Procurement (as referred to in Article 3 of the Law).

        Participation in bidding

3.      Government-owned enterprises in Tajikistan shall be eligible to participate in
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous,
operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency of the procuring entity (as
defined in the Law).

4.      Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same
conditions as local bidders. In particular, no domestic preference over foreign shall be
granted to local bidders in bid evaluation.

        Advertising: time for bid preparation

5.     Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national
newspaper, allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of
bids.

        Standard bidding documents

6.     Until a modified version of the Recipient’s standard bidding documents has been
approved by the World Bank, the World Bank’s sample NCB bidding documents for the
Europe and Central Asia Region shall be used.
                                             14


        Qualification criteria and evaluation criteria

7.       Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and
criteria so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a
bidder is qualified. Bids of bidders not meeting such criteria shall be rejected as non-
qualified. Qualifications of a bidder found to meet the specified qualification criteria shall
not be taken into account in the evaluation of such a bidder’s bid.

8.       Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and
evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. Evaluation
criteria so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit
points shall not be used in bid evaluation.

        Bid security

9.       For the procurement of goods and works, bidders shall be required to submit a
bid security in the amount and in the form specified in the bidding documents, unless
otherwise agreed with the World Bank. A bid security in the form of an advance bank
transfer shall not be allowed.

        Bid submission and bid opening

10.      Bids may be delivered by mail or by hand. Bids shall be opened immediately
after the deadline for bid submission in the presence of the bidders who wish to attend.
Said deadline and the place of bid opening shall be announced in the invitation to bid.
The name of each bidder and the amount of its bid, shall be read aloud and recorded
when opened in the minutes of bid opening. The minutes of bid opening shall be signed
by the members of the bidding committee immediately after bid opening.

11.     Bids received after the deadline for bid submissions shall be returned to the
bidders unopened.

        Bid evaluation and award of contracts

12.     Bidders shall not be allowed to be present during bid evaluation, and no
information relating to the evaluation of bids shall be disclosed to bidders until the
successful bidder is notified of the award.

13.     A bid containing material deviations from or reservations to the terms, conditions
and specifications of the bidding documents shall be rejected as not substantially
responsive. A bidder shall not be permitted to withdraw material deviations or
reservations once bids have been opened.
                                             15


14.     Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the
bidding documents, and contracts should be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the
lowest evaluated and substantially responsive bid.

15.     A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations
not specified in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
submitted.

16.     There shall be no post-bidding negotiations between the purchaser and the lowest
or any other bidder.
                                            16


                                      APPENDIX

                   Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
        as follows:

“… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed
       by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other
       individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the
       Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a
       result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or
       entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
       connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

2.      Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

“… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures
       (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or
       entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity
       ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be
       awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract,
       financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise
       participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other
       project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank
       determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
       corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
       with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
       entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
       declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
       by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
       of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
       determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
       the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.?

Footnotes:

        “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank
        financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the
        Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary
        suspension or early temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing
        sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier with whom the
                                    17


Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a
financing made by such financier.?

“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid under
paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under paragraph
1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.?

“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the
purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board
sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has
adopted an internal protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing
debarments by other financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be
posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and other
stakeholders.?
