Tajikistan: An Emergency Response to the Financial Crisis and Rising Food Costs
                                                                                                     94147
                                                                                                     April 17, 2012




    A Public Works Program to Renovate the Drainage and Irrigation
    Infrastructure in Tajikistan


Synopsis
With the funding from the European Union (EU) Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund, this
project created 402,000 man/days of work for 10,600 beneficiaries from November 24, 2010 to
December 31, 2011 providing an average income of roughly US$230 per person and benefitting
approximately 43,300 of the most food insecure rural households (about 302,000 people). The
renovated infrastructure included 1,820 km of irrigation canals and 317 km of collector and
drainage canals, producing 44,276 hectares of higher quality irrigated arable land in the project
districts.  




Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
Agriculture is a major sector in the Tajik
economy, producing 21 percent of the country’s
GDP and 64 percent of its employment. Yet 76
percent of Tajikistan’s poor still live in rural
areas, poverty due mainly to low earnings from
agriculture that in turn stem from the limited area
(0.1 ha/capita) and low productivity of arable
land, and a history of policies and institutions
that have stifled incentives. Khatlon oblast was
selected as the project area, first because
survey evidence consistently showed it to be the
poorest and most food insecure region in                Slideshow:  Creating Jobs, Growing Food in
Tajikistan, and second because of the region’s          Tajikistan
high—but unfulfilled—agricultural potential, owing
in part to its deteriorating irrigation infrastructure.
This oblast was also seriously affected by the
shocks of the 2008–09 global financial crisis, which had the         More Results
deepest impact on rural poverty through the resultant drop in
remittances.

Approach
The Public Employment for Sustainable Agriculture and
                                                                      10,603
Water Resources (PESAWM) project was designed to                      members of poor households
                                                                      were engaged in the public
establish and finance a public works program to provide               works between November 2010
temporary employment to food insecure rural people, by             and December 2011
rehabilitating the farm-level irrigation and drainage network in
five high food insecure districts. The project was responding


                                                                   44,276
to the significant drop in remittance income as a result of the
global financial crisis, which had severely compromised
household food security in the rural areas, and to the
medium-term constraint on domestic food production caused          ha of arable land benefitted from
by inadequate drainage and irrigation. The project also            improved irrigation

contributed to improved food security at a national level by
financing the technical assistance (TA) needed to introduce
water basin management as a basis for the overall                  MORE INFORMATION
management of Tajikistan’s water resources. 
                                                                    Public Employment for
                                                                    Sustainable Agriculture and
Results                                                             Water Resources Management
                                                                    (November 24, 2010 –
The following key results were achieved between November            December 31, 2011)
2010 and December  2011:
                                                                    PESAWMP Snapshot (2010-
                                                                    2011) - Public Employment for
       Temporary employment for 10,603 members of poor              Sustainable Agriculture and
       households, above the 6,950 target objective. In total,      Water Management
       1,157 women (11 percent of the total employed) were          PESAWMP Materials –
       engaged in the implementation of the public works            Implementation Status and
       component (a number achieved through such flexible           Results Report and Related
       arrangements as hiring women heads of vulnerable             Documents
       households to perform lighter work with men in their         PESAWMP Financing - EU
       community).                                                  Food Crisis Rapid Response
                                                                    Facility Grant
       The creation of 402,500 man-days of employment.

       An average net income of 1,176 TJS per person, 50
       percent more than the average monthly wage in the
       agriculture sector. The income earned from
       participation in the public works program was 14.3 percent of the households’ total
       annual cash income.

       A total length of 1,861,453 meters of manually cleaned irrigation canals, with 724,551
       m3 of silt cleaned in total. Fully 312,480 m of the collector and drainage systems were
       cleaned mechanically, for a total of 2,914,887 m3 of silt cleaned and ground leveled.
       Five pump stations were repaired, and 305 outlet gates installed.

       The substantial improvement of 44,276 hectares of irrigated arable land.

       Support for government agencies and other donors in (i) the delineation of the river
       basins according to the Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) principle; (ii)
       training for government staff and involved stakeholders on the new approach to water
       resource management; (iii) outlining the new institutional framework to implement IWRM;
       and (iv) developing a phased program to shift from the existing institutional structure to
       the new one.



Bank Contribution
In 2010, funds in the amount of US$9,948,457.61 were allocated to the Tajikistan PESAWM
from the EU Food Crisis Response Facility, for administration by the World Bank. 

Partners
There is a strong alliance among key development partners in Tajikistan’s water sector: the
World Bank, the EU, and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). At the
national level, the donor community aims to support the formulation of new legislation for the
design of a new institutional framework for water resource management. It also supports
reforms to rationalize the irrigation system and ensure that it has the financial resources to
operate sustainably, promote the institutional transformation of existing public institutions into
the new framework, and strengthen water user associations (WUAs). Funds allocated for the
repeater project will be complemented by joint activities with (i) USAID on strengthening WUAs,
and (ii) the EU on taking forward the strategy for water sector reform.

Moving Forward
The overall success of the original project and the experience gained during its implementation
provided a strong basis for the design and implementation of the large-scale repeater project.
The Government of Tajikistan submitted a proposal to the Global Agriculture and Food Security
Program, which has approved US$27.9 million in funding for implementation in FY 2013–17.
The increased participation of low-income people, particularly women, in public works will be
sought through improved screening mechanisms, better public awareness campaigns, and
women-oriented working conditions. Project activities will cover 11 more districts in the Khatlon
region and will build on the capacity of the Ministry of Irrigation and Water Resources and the
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.

Beneficiaries
To the households of Khatlon’s small communities, or jamoats , these benefits came in the form
of temporary jobs, effective water management, and better food security. According to
Abdunazarov Rahimjon, a local farmer from the Vakhsh district of Khatlon region who has
participated in the irrigation rehabilitation works: “ Due to rehabilitated and improved irrigation
that now we can grow diversified produce multiple times, and use the income earned from the
rehabilitation work to purchase more seeds as necessary . I also used some of the income
earned to buy a baby calf for my household.” 
