                                                                                                 49080


               Songo Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project 

                              Draft Restructuring Project Paper 



                                           DATASBEET 


Date: December 21, 2007                               Task Team Leader: Ralph Karhammar t
Country: Republic ofTanzania                                                   Pankaj Gupta
Project Name: Songo Songo Gas                         Sector ManagerlDirector: S. Vijay lyer t
       Development and Power Generation                                             Michel Wormser
       Project                                        Country Director: John M. McIntire
~,.t"'\""""ID':Credit 3569-TA                         Environmental                 A




Current closing date: February 29, 2008
Revised closfug date: December 31, 2009

Indicate ifthe restructuring is:

Board approved'
RVP approved               X

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?' .                  Yes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management? NtA                                           Yes        No
Is approval.for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                Yes X No

Revised project development objective/outcomes

The use ofprojectsavings is consistent with the project objectives and outcomes.


Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.

Already triggered Safegua1'd Policies include thefollowing OPs and BPs: EnvironmentAssessment (4.01).
Natural Habitats (4.04), Forestry (4.36), Physical Cultural Resources (4.11), and Involuntary Resettlement
(4.12},




Borrower                                                           2                0                2
lBRDIIDA                                                           30              190            220
UK: Commonwealth Development Corporation                            3              19               22
EC: European Investment Bank:                                       6              35               41
           Commercial Sources                                      5.5            44.5             50
Total                                                             46.5           288.5            335


             Songo Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project 

                                 Restructuring Project Paper 



1.      This Restructuring Project Paper seeks the approval ofthe Regional Vice President to
extend the Project Closing Date to December 31, 2009 and to use the Savings under the Songo
Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project (CR 3569-TA) for the following
purposes:

        ·  To fmance the decommissioning ofWellhead # 6 for safety reasons; and'

        ·  To fuiance additional technical assistance to Tanzania Electric Supply Company
             Limited (fANESCO), to Ministry ofEnergy and Minerals (MEM), and to the
             Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) through MEM, for further
             development ofthe gas and power sectors.

        ·  To finance at Government ofTanzania's request, the implementation ofthe option in
             the Songas Power Purchase Agreement that allows GOT to reduce capacity charges
             arising out ofand up to 75% ofcosts associated with the engineering, procurement
             and co~truction ofthe Ubungo Expansion Project (UEP), by applying Output Based
             Aid (OBA) principles.                                      .

2.      RVP Approval is being sought for the proposed extension and reallocation ofProject
savings because: (i) Project savings for reallocation exceed 5% ofthe original Credit amount and
the newactivities proposed to be financed by the savings do not affect the Project Development
Objectives (PDO); and (ii) the cumulative extension period ofthe Project's Closing Date,
inclusive of the proposed extension exceeds 24 months.                           .

3.      The objectives ofthe Project, which have been largely met are to: (i) develop the
Borrower's natural gas reserves to produce least-cost power generation for domestic and        .
industrial use in an environmentally sustainable and efficient manner; (ii) promote private sector
ownership and manag!mlent ofthe gas and power sectors; and (iii) encourage increased access of
the poor to electricity supply by developing fmancially and institutionally sustainable rural power
schemes to presently unServed areas along the corridor ofthe gas pipeline. As most ofthe
originally envisaged activities have been completed, and new activities have been added, a
revised results framework has been prepared wherein the intermediate outcome indicators have
been refined to better measure the outcomes ofthe Project (see Annex I for revised Results
Framework).

Background tUld Reasonsfor Restrl;lcturing

4.      The Songo Songo GaS Development and Power Generation Project (the Project, Credit
3569-TA), financed by a Credit in the amount ofSDR 145.70 million (US$220 million
equivalent), was approved by the International Development Association's (IDA's) Board of
Executive Directors on October 9, 2001 and became effective on November 27,2001. The first
request for the utilization ofProject savings was submitted by the Government in its letter dated
September 29,2003, in which it proposed the restructuring ofthe Project in order to utilize its
cost savings (US$78 million in 2003, including unallocated aniounts) to: (a) permit the
conversion ofthe 100 MW Independent Power Tanzania Limited (lPTL) thermal power plant
from BFO to a gas firing system; and (b) add a new component for rehabilitation and upgrading
TANESCO's distribution and transmission system. The Board approved on June 8, 2004, the use
ofsavings for the conversion ofthe ITPL plant to natural gas, but since appraisal ofthe
distribution and transmission component required further detailed studies (economic, technical,

 financial, environmental impact and social assessments) which were not ready at the time, it was
 decided to defer the decision to use the savings for transmission and distribution investments.l

 5.        The Credit, as restructured in June 2004, is therefore cum;ntly financing: (a) Part A
 (Songas), implemented by a private sector special purpose company (Songas), and which resulted
 in proj(':ct savings primarily because offavorable international market conditions in early 2002
 that led to significantly lower bid prices for the engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC)
 contracts thI:in the appraisal estimates; and (b) Parts B (Environmental, Social. and Project
 Monitoring), C (MEM Capacity Building), D (TegetaPower Plant), that are currently being
 implemented by the public sector (MEM and TANESCO), and have suffered delays and cost
 increases on certain investments elements. Some ofthese cost increases have been due to foreign
 exchange movements, but mostly, the increase inProject costs has been on accouiJ.t ofthe delays.
 However, the Project savings by far outweigh the increases in Project costs, giving rise to the
.second Government request for the utilization ofthe Project savings, which is the subject ofthis
 Project Paper.                                                            .          .

 6.        Part D ofthe Project relating to the IPTL fuel conversion from BFa to gas has not been
 implemented to date. However, TANESCO has engaged a consultant-contractor to carry out the
 engineering and detailed design work for the conversion ofthe lOxlOMW IPTL power plant to
 use natural gas from HFO.:! The engineering detailed design bas been completed and successfully
 tested for conversion ofthe Wartsila 38, lOMW units. A detailed timeline has been drawn up. It
 is expected that works on conversion wiUbegin when gas is available to allow the converted
 IPTL plant to operate using natural gas, which is expected after the third and fourth gas
 processing trains are commissioned at the Songo Songo island and the rental emergency gas fired
 power plants are decommissioned at Ubungo. Current projections are that workon conversion
 would begin in January 2009 and IPTL units would be converted to gas firing in a phased
 mamier. TANESCO expects to complete the conversion ofall units by the end of2009. This
. conversion will allow for significant reduction ofenergy charges for the IPlL plant (cost oflIFO
  vis indigenous gas)and after conversion itis expected that the IPlL plant will continue to be
  QiSpatched at fairly high load factors. The payback period for this investment, at current lIFO
 prices at 50% load factor, is expected to be less than 1 year..

                                                                         I

  7.       As noted in the last ISR (#12, dated December 7, 2007), the main component ofthe
  project (part A) is complete: a gas processing plant, gas pipeline, and power plant have been
  constructed, and gas-fired thermal power is being produced. Sector performance and the PD~
  outcome/impact indicators have been exceeded. There has been continued progress in
  implementation ofremaining Parts ofthe Project during the last six months, as evidenced by: (a)
  completion ofelectrification and water supply to Songo Songo island (SS!); (b) completion of
  water supply to 44 villages along pipeline corridor; (c) a: 9 MW gas-based power station for
  electricity supply to most ofthe corridor villages is expected to be completed soon; (d) the
  resettlement infrastructure development'component was substantially completed by end of
  October 2007 and the Way Leave Village Electrification Scheme is scheduled to be completed by
  March 2008; (e) completion ofa gas study; and (f) two ongoing key studies regarding
  Transmission and Distribution (T&D) design and Power sector master plan are under finalization.
  However,as alluded to above, there has been slow'progress with the IPTL conversion. In
  addition, the construction ofapolice post and staffhouses on SSI and the Independent Power



  IAmendments to the Development Credit Agreement were made to include only the conversion ofthe
  lOx!OMW IPTL Power Plant from operating on imported heavy fuel oil to a gas-firing plant (estimated to
  be US$20 million).          .
  2The IPTL PPA already anticipates the proposed conversion ofthe plant to natural gas, however, there are
  still some unresolved legal issues w.r.t equity holders and capacity charges payable by TANESCO to
  lPTL.

 Producer (IPP) Strategy Study have not yet commenced. The overall project implementation is 

  satisfactory and substantially in compliance with the project legal agreements, including those 

 related to Safeguards. The progress toward achievement ofthe PD~ is rated Moderately 

  Satisfactory in the current ISR. It is expected that Parts C and D, will require an additional    ' 

  disbmsement ofUS$38 million over the next several months to complete the outstanding 

 activities, Cost overruns rel~ted to Part B ofthe Project (the Wayleave electrification scheme) 

 includes those related to the construction ofthe 7.S MW power plant and the electrical 

  distribution network, and the originally envisaged construction of the police post. 


  8.       On a net basis'(after allowing for projected cost overruns), it is envisaged that project 

  savings ofabout US$49.2 million will be available to the Government for further utilizAtion in 

  supportofthe gas and power sectors. Fmther details regarding the current disbursements and 

 Project savings are provided in Annex n.                       ' 


  9.       The initial Closing Date ofthe credit W'a$ March 31, 2006, which was extended by 19
 months to October 31, 2007. In anticipation ofthe proposed restructuring and,extension, the
  Closing Date was extendedby an additional 4 months to the current Closing Date ofFebruary 29,
  2008 to allow the Bank to finalize the subject Package, including the Project Paper and the
  associated amendments to the legal agreements. Given the current status ofthe implementation
  ofthe existing components, it is not expected that these components can be implemented by the
  Closing Date, and therefore the Government is requesting an extension ofthe Closing Date until
  December 3'1, 2009 to ensme implementation ofthe existing components and to undertake the
 proposed uSe ofthe Project Savings.

 Rationalefor IDA's Support to the Proposal

  10. '    The Bank has been supporting the reform strategy ofthe power sector in Tanzania for 

  decades. 'Based on the Bank's recommendation, a management contractor was hired by the 

  Governmentto prepare TANESCO for privatization. Since the utility was supposed to be 

, privatized, the Government decided that no investments were to be made, in the system which has
  led to a technically dilapidated system In late 2006, the Government decided not to extend the
  management contract,and to keep the utility under public management.

  11.      A broad sector strategy has been envisaged by the Government under a TANESCO
  Financial Recovery Plan (FRP) which begins with a heavier reliance on indigenous gas (rather
  than hydro), future developments ofcoal and hydro projects, a reduction in operational costs for
  the utility (including those arising from independent power producers), and improving operational
  efficiency ofTANESCO with immediate transmission and distnbution investments. The current
  5-year investment plan focuses on generation (primarily by IPPs), transmission, and distribution
  capacity expansion and needs to be complemented with measures to exploit recent advances in
  energy efficiency and demand side management interventions. The plan contemplates an
  ambitious access scale-up, raising coverage from about 10 to 25%. Out ofa cumulative
  investment plan ofabout US$1.3 billion, the Government through the IDA and other donor grants
  and (:redits is expecting to provide about US$300-500 million in support ofthis investment plan
  over the next 3-5 years.

  12.      To assure the implementation ofthe remaining investments beyond Government support,
  TANESCO will need to undertake commercial borrowings on a reasonably large scale over the
  next several years. In order to make this feasible, it is imperative that TANESCO transforms
  itselfinto a financially sustainable utility in the medium term. It is expected that successful
  implementation ofthe recently approved Energy Development and Access Project (TEDAP) and
  the proposed use ofsavings for this Project, will reduce the overall cost of generating power, and



                                                      4

along with the proposed tariffincrease(s) will help the sector back to a sustainable path ofreform
and future development.

Proposed Use ofProjectSavillgs

13.     At present, the state-owned, vertically integrated power utility, TANESCO is in financial
trouble. The Bank has worked closely with the Government over the last several months to
develop a credible financial restructuring plan (FRP) for the utility. which was approved by the
Government on February 3, 2007. This plan revolves around two key principles - significant
reduction in operational costs and increasing gross revenues from sale ofpower on a per unit
basis. The effectiveness ofthe overall FRP hinges on: (i) critical generation, transmission, and
distribution investments, largely through contiilued donor support (the recently approved IDA
financed TEDAP for US$111.5 million is part ofthis broader strategy); (ii) mobilization of
private capital especially for generation activities; (iii) reduction in the capacity and energy
charges payable by TANESCO to JPPs (Songas and JPIL); and (iv) increasing electricity tariffs
to assure TANESCO's quick operational cost recovery.

14.      As part ofthe ongoing dialogue with the Bank, the Government and TANESCO have
requested the Bankto support the reduction ofthe cost ofpower generation from JPPs by: (i)
continue making funds for the proposed IPTL conversion to gas £iring to reduce energy charges;
and (ii) using Project Savings in the credit to help reduce the capacity charges for the expansion
ofthe Songas JPP. The use ofsavings in this manner is consistent with the key development
objective ofthe project- production ofleast-cost power generation and promotingprivate sector
ownership and management in the gas and power sectors. Reduction in overall cost ofpower
generation would allow for continued interest ofthe private sector to support the electricity
sector, especially for generation projects as envisaged in the Government's power sector reform
strategy.

15.      It is proposed to use the identified project savings ofabout US$49.2 million in the
following manner:

         ·  DecommissioningofWellhead (Part B ofthe Project): US$O.6 million to
              decommission Wellhead # 6. This will be treated as a subcomponent ofPart B ofthe
              Project (Environment, Social, and Project Monitoring);

         ·  Technical Assistance (part C ofthe Project): US$5.6 million to finance additional
              technical assistance to TANESCO, MEM and to TPDC (through MEM),for further
              developmentofthe gas and power sectors. This will be treated as part ofPart C of
              the Project, which deals with Capacity Building; and

         ·  Reduction in UEP Capacity Charges (part E ofthe Project) Up to US$43 million to
              finance at GOT's request, the implementation ofthe option in the Songas Power
              Purchase Agreement that allows GOT to reduce capacity charges arising out ofand
              up to 75% ofcosts associated with the engineering, procurement and construction of
              the UEP by applying Output Based Aid (OBA) principles.

 16.     Decommissioning ofWellhead (Part B.6): Final closing off and decommissioning of
Well #6, located a few hundred yards from the main Songo Songo Gas treatment plant, will
prevent environmental damage from leaking gas and water. This work had been put on hold as
there were previously no resources in the current design ofthe Projectto take support the GOT
with US$3 to US$5 million estimated to carry out the decommissioning. The decommissioning
ofwell head #6 on Songo Songo Island is now proposed to be undertaken by MEM in association
with TPDC and Pan African Energy for about US$O.6 millioIl on a sole source basis. MEM and
TPDC have requested the Bankto consider providing support for this urgent activity for safety
reasons. PanAfrican (the upstream exploration company on Songo Songo Island), has rented a rig

                                                   5

and ancillary equipment to workover their producing well #9 and drill a new well (#10) to meet
rising demand for gas from power. Ifthis work can be carried out sequentially to the work that is
being undertaken by PanAfrican, TPDC could benefit from significant cost sharing for the work
with the private sector.

17.      Technical Assistance (Part C): It is proposed to provide additional technical assistance in
an amount ofUSS5.6 million to TANESCO and MEM for further development ofgas and
electricity sectors. As part of the Energy Development and Access Project (TED.AJ.l), over
US$IO million ofTechnical Assistance needs have been identified for the power and gas sectors.
Some ofthese identified technical assistance needs are being financed under the TEDAP
(approved by the,Board on December 13,2007).

18.      It is envisaged that technical assistance will be provided to TANESCO in an amount of
US$3.20 million for: (a) undertaking an assessment ofthe sector for an Energy Rationalization
and Demand Response; (b) designing and preparing bidding documentation for a National
pispatch Load Center and a Distribution SCADA system; (c) undertaking an overall Systems
Operations Study primarily oriented towards Reactive Power Compensation & protection ofthe'
transmission system; (d) undertaking a Hydro/Thermal Dispatch Systemupgrade to enable
efficient dispatch ofpow~ capacity; (e) ongoing capacity building through the provision ofa
tariff advisor and a financial advisor in support ofits financial recovery plan; and (t) capacity
building through the provision oflegal, financial, technical, social and environmental advisors to
support the development ofgreenfield or expansion of, public or private, generation,
transmission, and distribution projects.

19.      It is also proposed that technical assistance in an amount ofUS$2.0 million wouldbe
provided to MEM: for the provision oflegal, financial, technical, social and environmental
advisors to: (i) support development or expansion ofprivate or public generation; (ii) support
development ofdomestic or regional, private or public transmission projects; and (iii) support the
asse~sment of the contractual and financing framework of existing private power producers, and
execution ofagreed recommendations to optimize their inclusion as viable long-term power
supply options. In addition, it is also envisaged that technical assistance ofabout US$0.40
million will be provided to MEM, to be implemented by TPDC (on behalfofMEM), for the gas
sector in support of: (a) preparation ofa Gas Act which will govern all upstream, midstream, and
downstream activities into a single legal framework;,(b) capacity building in preparing TPDC's
upstream database for computing equipment to properly manage their twenty (20) or so
active/proposed Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs); and (c) a feasibility study for extracting
Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) from the AssociatedNatural Gas Liquids (NGLs) that come with
gas production and which could substitute for expensive LPG imported form the world markets
will also be undertaken. Such activity, ifpossible, would also generate a small local ancillary
industry and associated services and prevent any gas flaring from producing fields.

20.      Reduction ofUEP Capacity Charges (part E); In 2004, the Government requested
Songas to expand the power generation capacity ofthe "Bank-financed Project" by adding 2 gas
fired turbines using its own resources (such expansion was envisaged in the IPP contractual
documents; the Bank provided its consent and full support for such expansion on November 2,
2004). At the request ofthe Government, Songas undertook international shopping and limited
international bidding for the major equipment for the procurement and installation ofthe
equipment, respectively; identified an Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC)
contractor for installation, and reached commercial operations for these 2 additional units.' This
"Ubungo Expansion Project (UEP)" was costed; in agreement with TANESC03, at about US$57



3 Songas and TANESCO reached final agreement on Ubungo Expansion Project costs in May 2007.


                                                    6

million and was financed due to the lack of any concessional or conunercial debt financing, on an
all-equity basis by the private sector (by Songas equity holders).

21.      When compared to the Bank supported Project's weighted average cost ofcapital of
about 10%, the UEP was financed at 22%; these financing costs are reflected in the capacity
charges currently charged by Songas to TANESCO. The Government and TANESCO envisaged
such all-equity financing to be for a short-term, and therefore negotiated rights to reduce the
excess capacity charges - arising out of(and up to) 75% ofthe Expansion Costs paid for by
expensive private equity fmancing for turbines 5 and 6. Therefore, under the amended ~PA, '
TANESCO has the right to assert, and Songas has the obligation (on a best-efforts basis) to
secure additional debt financing for the UEP. In addition, TANESCO/GOT has the right to make
a payment of up to 75% ofthe agreed UEP costs (US$43 million) to Songas as an alternative.

22.      Due diligence carried out by separate international consultants4 to both Songas and
TANESCO suggests that only limited amounts, at high interest rates and for short tenors is
available for such fmancing to TANESCO. Moreover, since TANESCO has recently completed
a long and difficult process ofborrowing TSh 240 billion (about US$250 million) from
commercial banks (and Tanzanian pension funds for lack ofliquidity) f9rfulfilling its operational
deficits, and with full Government guarantees, it is clear that conunercial markets have little
additional liquidity available in support ofTANESCO credit. High cost, low tenor borrowing
will only make a limited, ifany, impact on near-term TANESCO's financial health - critical to a
quick financial recovery ofTANESCO is reduction in its medium term fIXed expenses.

23. '    Upon the occurrence ofany ofthe above noted options, under the Shareholders
Agreement (provision 2.11 (iv) ofthe amended PPA), Songas would redeem Series A of
Preferred Shares'equal in value to the amounts offunds provided (to date, none ofthese shares '
have been redeemed under this provision). The redemption ofsuch shares would result in the
following:

  ,,(a)  the private sectorwillcontinue to own majority shares in Songas since no share transfer
           or asset transfer is being made to the GOT or TANESCO. Such an action will allow
           for the Projectto continue meeting the objective ofprivate sector participation in the
           gas and power sectors; ,and

     (b)  since the expansion costs and equity rate ofreturns are a direct pass thru to the capacity
           charges billed to TANESCO, such payment ofExpansion Costs will result in the
           reduction ofcapacity charges to TANESCO.

24.      Itis therefore proposed to disburse up to US$43 million to pay for verified and available
power generation capacity (the output) of 80 MW by applying the principles ofOutput Based
Aid. Output-based aid (OBA) is an approach that is used to promote the effective use ofpublic
funds for the delivery ofinfrastructure services. Governments use such performance-based
subsidies where policy concerns, such as the'affordability for particular groups ofusers, justify
public funding to complement or replace user fees. The objective ofthis proposal is to reduce the
cost ofpower to TANESCO arising out ofSongas, thereby making the power more affordable to
the final consumer.

25.      The Bank has carried out due diligence to assure that the output- provision ofavailable
capacity of 80 MW under industry standards of operations and maintenance - has been made
available to the offtaker (TANESCO). Songas, as the developer and operator ofthe UEP has an
excellent track record for making the power available to the offtaker - UEP has been in operation


4ABSA (a BNP Paribas bank) advised Songas and Fieldstone advised TANESCO on this matter, both
advisors are well known international financial advisory finDs from South Africa.  '


                                                     7

 since August 2005. The Bank has also undertaken due diligence ofthe contractual arrangements
regarding the UEP; Songas is contractually obligated to maintain the UEP available capacity at
industry standards for the remaining life ofthe PPA (up to July 2024). In addition, unit costs of
capacity (US$/kWh) provided by the Songas complex (US$684Ikwh inclusive -ofgas
infrastructure) has been compared to similar costs for alternative options available to TANESCO,
and have been found to be in the low range of such costs. Fmther analysis on how the proposed
transaction meets the criteria laid down for Output Based investment operations is provided
below in the next section ofthis Project Paper, and in greater detail in Annex m.

26.     Based on the strong economic and financial impact ofthe proposed component -        an
investment IRR of22% and a NPV ofUS$25.4 million (see section on Economic and Financial
Analysis in paragraph 40 below), it is recommended that Banksupports the use ofproject savings
to pay for available power generation capacity from the UEP in a single lump-sum paymentof
US$43 million (against contractual obligations with remedies by Songas), thereby enabling .
significant financial savings (about US$1 million/month in the near term) to TANESCO. This
savings would significantly help improve TANESCO's liquidity position, and in so doing, make
funds available to it for the productive purpose ofproviding access to cheaper electricity to
.Tanzanians in an efficient and cost--effective manner.

Compliance ofp,.oposed Components with Bank Policies

Use ofProject Cost Savings - OP 13.25

27.     This request for the use ofProject Cost Savings meets the requirements ofOP 13.25 on
the use ofcost savings, as follows:

        (a)      the overall Project implementation is satisfactory and substantially in compliance
        with the Ptoject's legal agreements.

        (b)      the proposed additional activities described above have high priority and are
        consistent with the original PD~. '.The main proposed activity described above relating to
        the reduction ofpower generation costs is directly consistent with the PpG ofleast-cost
        sustainable power generation, which is a key element ofthe supply chain providing kWh
        to the end consumer for productive use. The reduction of energy prices to TANESCO
        and to the consumers ofelectricity will make the power sector more sustainable in the
        medium term. The proposed activities are critical and justified actions under the
        TANESCO FRP and are also consistent with the Government's and IDA's strategy for
         improving the efficiency and performance ofthe energy sector. The fulfillment ofthe
        PD~    will be strengthened by improving the fmancial viability ofTANESCO, thereby
         increasing the reliability and quality ofelectricity supply. The decommissioning ofthe
         gas well head helps meet the PD~ objective ofensuring that environmental concerns are .
         taken into account in the generation ofpower. Finally, the proposed technical advisory
         services to the key players in the Tanzanian energy sector will play an invaluable role in
         strengthening their capacity to.implement the Project activities that will ultimately lead to
         the fulfillment ofthe PD~.

         (c) .    the appraisal oftechnical, economic, fmancial, institutional and safeguard aspects
         was undertaken in the context of the recen~ly approved Energy Development and Access
         Expansion project (approved by IDA Board on December 13,2007). Songas has
         implemented the Ubungo Expansion Project, under which the capacity charges to Songas
         are proposed to be reduced, using the same safeguard principles as those for the Project.
         The proposed changes do not change the environmental category ofthe Project and do
         not trigger any new safeguard policies.                 .




                                                   8

        (d)       the Project has mobilized US$72 million in private equity and about USS$ 50
        million in co-fmancing from the European Investment Bank:, which is consistent with
        country limits on cost sharing. The financing ofthe proposed activities.is consistent with
        the Tanzania's country limits on cost sharing.

Guidelines for Output Based Aid Investment Operations - Part E ofthe Project

28.     The proposed component that proposes to reduce capacity charges from UEP is
consistent with the Output Based Aid investment operations;"final project developmental impacts
ofthis proposal will be measurable at completion, and will be monitored overtime.

        ·  Financing ofProject Outputs: The proposal is based onthe considerationthatthe
             output proposed to be financed by IDA (under OBA) is for the availability of
             installed power generating capacity by Songas (a private sector special purpose
             company); i.e. the Bankwill pay for charges accruing to TANESCO with respect to
             the generating capacity being made available for dispatch by TANESCO.
             Contractually, under the Songas PPA. TANESCO is obligated to pay for such
             availability ofcapacity on an ongoing basis over the remaining life ofthe PPA (- 17
             years). The proposal is to finance TANESCO's payment for this availability ofplant
             capacity in one lump sum payment which is an option that is available under the
             PPA. The resulting savings ofabout US$l million per month in the near term and
             continuing on a decreasing basis for over 17 years will significantly help to improve
             TANESCO's liquidity position, and in so doing, make fimds available to it for the
             productive purpose ofproviding access to electricity to Tanzanians in an efficient and
             cost-effective manner.                '

        ·  Procurement: The proposed OBA approach regarding UEP CapacityCharges has
             been discussed and agreed with the Operations Policy Department (OPCS) and"has
             been reviewed and approved by the Bank-wide Operations Procu:rement Review
             Committee (OPRC). The OPRC agreed that Operational Memorandum, dated
             November 7,2005: Application ofParagraph 3.13 ofthe Procurement Oui"elines to
             Cases Involving Incumbent Concessionaires was applicable to proposed Output
             Based Aid approach presented and agreed that the policy guidelines as stated in the
             memorandum can be applied on a retroactive basis. Further, based on the positive
             assessments conducted by the Africa RPM's office (requirements under paragraph 3
             ofthe Memorandum), namely: (i) an assessment as to whether the procurementby
             Songas ofthe two gas fired turbines under the UEP met the principles ofeconomy,
             efficiency, transparency and competition; and (ii) an assessment ofthe procurement
             capacity, procedures and practices ofSongas, the OPRC concluded that the
             Operational Memorandum is applicable to the proposal and provi~ its support to
             proposed restructuring.                                   .

        ·  Unit Cost ofOutpull: Unit Costs arising from the UEP have been appraisedand
             determined to be reasonably priced and well within the usual range ofsuch projects.
             It is proposed that such costs be accepted as verified unit costs forproject outputs.
             The unit cost ofthe gas to power generation facility is US$634lkW as a whole. The
             UEP project (including gas infrastructure) has a total roject cost (excluding
             development expenses) ofUS$49 million for 80 MW ofadditional capacity i.e.


5A typical Output Based Aid operation does not require a unit cost analysis. However, such due diligence
was carried out to assure that the outputs are reasonably priced. In addition, a procurement assessment of
the incumbent was reviewed and found to be in agreement with market and Bank standards.

6The total UEP project costs are US$57 million, ofwhich about US$49 million were spent on the power
generation aspects. Remaining were spent on extension of gas pipeline infrastructure to accept additional
generation facilities.


                                                      9

              US$6l3IKW, which has been deemed reasonable. Annex ill provides further details
              on evaluation ofUnit Costs.

           ·  Safeguards: Songas has developed and maintained the gas to powergenerating
              assets to meet the Bank's and Tanzania EPA safeguard standards for environment.
              The UEP has also beendesigned to meet similar standards. 1Jle expansion costs have
              been reviewed and agreed to by TANESCO and the Bank, which is the contractual
              basis for calculation ofthe UEP capacity charges.

           ·  Fiduciary Systems andCost Tracking: Part Aofthe Projecthas beenimplementedin
              a timely manner by Songas. The output based disbursement component will be
              implemented by TANESCO, at the specific authorization from the Borrower. It is
              expected that the Bank's disbUrsement against.a TANESCO's request for payment
              would be made directly to Songas.                            .

           ·  Monitoring: Monitoring wouldbe undertaken onaregularbasis as partof
              supervision ofthe Project. After the closing ofthe Project (after December 2009),
              ongoing availability ofthe UEP will be monitored as part ofthe Bank's ongoing
              engagement with TANESCO, and through supervision ofthe proposed TEDAP. As
              part ofthe legal documentation ofTEDAP, additionaland appropriate information
              from TANESCO, such as annual reports, will be sought for suchmonitoring.

 29.       Clearly, by paying for the availability ofoutput in single lumpsum payment, TANESCO
 is taking a risk ofpotential partial non-availability ofthe plant However, a review ofthe PPA
 between Songas and TANESCO has been undertaken that assures that in the absence ofthis
. generating capacity being made available by Songas (under non-Force Majeure Events), Songas.
 would owe penalties to TANESCO to compensate for the loss ofavailability ofpower generating
 capacity. Given that appropriate incentives and penalties are already in place within the PPA to
 assure availability ofdispatch for TANESCO, it is recommended that the Bank: supports the
 payment for availability ofpower on a lump-sum basis.

  Procurement

  30.      Matters relating to procurement for the proposedOBA component have already been
  discussed in the section ofthe Project Paper regarding Compliance with Bank Policies. The
  goods and services for decommissioning ofwellhead #6 will be procured on a Sole Source Basis
  to PanAfrican Energy (the upstream TPDC N'partner for exploration and production ofgas).
  PanAfrican, has a rented rig and ancillary equipment to work over their producing well #9 and to
  drill a new well (#10) to meet rising demand for gas from power. Sole Sourcing this contract will
  allow for cost sharing with the private sector, and therefore allow for cost savings when compared
  to a full mobilization ofa rig and ancillary equipment (expectedto be about US$2.8 to US$3.6
  million). Services rendered under the technical assistance components will follow standard Bank
  Procurement procedures already set out in the DevelQPment Credit Agreement.

  31.      Annex IV provides the procurement plan for remaining and proposed activities,

  Safeguards

  32.      The Project has been supervised, and has been deemed to have satisfactory
  implementation with respect to the Songas managed environmental and social components (under
  Part A ofthe Project). An outstanding matter regarding the rehabilitation and extension ofthe
  new community jetty at the Songo Songo island is expected to be addressed by Songas in the near
  term. Implementation ofthis construction will be supervised by the GoT and the World Bank.
  Part B ofthe Project, implemented by TANESCO and MEM, is still under implementation and
  will be supervised by the Bank on a regular basis.


                                                    10

 Financial Management and·Disbursement

 33.      Ongoing standard disbursement arrangements will apply Jor the proposal relating to
 decommissioning ofwellhead # 6 and additional technical advisory services envisaged. The
 revised Disbursement Schedule re-allocating funds to expenditure categories under the Project is
 set out in Annex     n.

 34.      For the component that will s,!!pport reduction ofUEP capacity charges, it is expected 

 that upon the effectiveness ofthe proposed amendments, and as per Section 5.5(r) ofthe PPA, 

 TANESCO will exercise the option in the PPA to buy down UEP costs providing 30 days 

 advance notice to Songas. Songas is then expected to provide an disbursement request to 

 T~SCO (with details regarding transfer of funds) to undertake the transaction. 


 35.      For the purposes ofBank disbursement under the Credit, the Borrower will be required to
 provide: (a) a copy ofthe notice given to Songas by TANESCO; and (b) a letter from Songas to
 TANESCO/Borrower: (i) acknowledging receipt ofTANESCO's written notice and that upon
 disbursement offunds to it, that reduction in capacity charges would commence in subsequent
 month ofoperations; and (ii) attaching a disbUrsement request that is consistent with
 TANESCO's notice. Upon submission ofsuch documents, theBank will disburse funds directly
 to Songas accounts.

 Implementation Arrangeme"ts

 36.      Part A ofthe Project has been implemented by Songas. Part B, C, D are being
 implemented by the Borrower (MEM) and TANESCO. The restructuring does not propose any
  change in implementation arrangements, including those related to safeguards.

  37.     Component relating to UEP Capacity Charges will be implemented by TANESCO and
  decommissioning ofwellhead # 6 will be implemented by MEM (in collaboration with and on
  behalfofTPDq. The additional technical advisory services will benefit MEM, TANESCO and
. TPDC. It is expected that reduction in UEP capacity charges will be undertaken within the first
  few months after the effectiveness ofthe proposed amendments. Decommissioning ofWellhead
  # 6 is expected to be implemented in the near term as PanAfrican is currently undertaking work
  on the gas fields. aank financing will be provided to TANESCO on the onlending terms
  previously agreed under the project.

  38.     The following table provides details on the expected implementation schedule for the
  proposed new components for the Project. Annex            nprovides       an overview ofthe implementation
  and disbursement status ofthe existing activities, and the revised disbursement ~ategories and
  amounts.

   No.                Activity              Allocalion               Start Date            Expected Completion Date
                                            (USS md!Jon)

          UEP Capacity Charges                 43.0       At Effectiveness ofArilendment       Prior to June 08

    2     Repair of Wellhead # 6                          At Effactlvenass of Amendment             June 08

    3     Tachnlcal Assistance - various                  At Effectiveness ofAmendment       Prior to Closing Date
  Total


  39.      Based on the due diligence carried out by the Bank, it is expected that proposed
  additional activities will be completed by late 2009.

  Economic and Filltlllcial Justificatioll for Proposed Compollents

  40.·     The monthly charges to TANESCO arising from the two key IPPs (Songas and IPTL)
  inclusive of both capacity and energy payments in 2006 amounted to an average ofUS$16


                                                          11

 million per month, or well over 50% ofTANESCO's monthly iross revenues. Although, high
 price ofcrude oil (IPTL runs on HFO) and capacity factors mattered in terms ofthe price per
 kilowatt hour, these have no bearing on the capacity charges, which are fixed monthly charge to
 the utility to the lPP for making the capacity to generate power available at all times. The energy
 charges reflect the fuel and operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and unlike the capacity
 charges vary with operations i.e. number ofkWhs dispatched.

 41.       The following table provides an overview ofthe capacity and energy charges borne by
 TANESCO. Songas capacity charges are inclusive ofthe entire gas infrastructure and should not
 be taken as the cost ofpower generation capacity as available from the complex. The proposed
 reduction in UEP capacity charges, along with the conversion ofIPTL to a gas-firing plant is a
 critical action under the Government's TANESCO FRP. Both these actions would reduce the
 cost burden on TANESCO. The proposed payment from TANESCO would reduce capacity
 charges for Songas Units V and VI, and the conversion oflPTL to a gas-firing plan would reduce
 the energy charges.

                                  TANESCO: IPP Monthly Charges and Generation

                                                            2005            2006         2007 (cst. pre
                                                                                         restructuring)
 Songas
I   capacity Charge - Units I - IV                         $50.91          $53.57           $55.09
    caMcilv Charae - Units V- VI                            $6.41          $15.27           $14.58
    Energy OeDvered - Units I to V                        $960.50        $1.100.n           $862.37
    Energy Delivered - Units VI                           $188.87          $267.18          $287.60'
   ,Energy Charge - Unit I to VI                           $15.16          $20.52           $23.96
   VAT (20%)                                                $3.03          $4.10             $4.79
   Average Sanges Charges (US$ mHllon I month)              $6.29           $7.79            $8.20
   Average Songes Generation (GWh I month)                 $95.78          $114.00          $95.83 

 IPTL 

    capacity Charge 
                                      $33.70          $34.40           $33.98
    Enerov Charae                                          $45.20          $61.52           $36.80
   VAT (20%)                                                $9.04          $12.30            $7.36
    AveragelPll Charges (US$ millionI month)                $7.33           $9.02            $6.51
  ,Average IPll Generation (GWh I month)                   $48.09          $53.48           $35.18 

 TotaliPP Charges (US$ mlllton/month) 
                    $13.62          $16.81           $14.71
 'Gross TANESCO RevenuelUS$ mlOicinlmonth)                 $16.40          $15.78           $18.72
 IPP Charges as a % ofGross TANESCO Revenue                83.07%        '106.57%           78.60%


 42.       AS shown in the table above, the capacity charges per unit of capacity are unusually high
 for Units 5 and 6. This is primarily on account ofits fmancing costs - equity financing (at 22%
 ROE) vis cheaper debt financing. The proposed new component I allows TANESCO to pay for a
 portion of capacity charges associated with the UEP earlier than envisaged (on a NPV basis),
 thereby immediately reducing the equity cost basis for Units 5 and 6. Since the expansion costs
 and equity rate ofreturns (22% per annum) are a direct pass thru to the capacity charges billed to
 TANESCO, a lumpsumpayment from TANESCO willresult in the immediate reduction of
 capacity'charges to TANESCO of aboutUS$0.95 million a month - it is expected that
 TANESCO will save an average ofUS$0.91 million per monthfrom Year 0 to Year 3, and an
 averageofUS$0.51 million per month from Year 4to Year 17'"(see charts below).




 7 The Songas PPA envisages a repayment ofSongas A preferential shares every six. month period on a
 straight line basis. The remaining life ofthe Songas PPA is 17+ years.


                                                      12

                                                .....
                                                    .                   ~~j§J*J.t:.j#ttJ.@
                                                                         ···GlObeleq
                                                                        ~@.~
                                                  E.","pansion
                                                                                     ··
                                                   Buy-Down                          ~
                        fustnlmeu($                 Payment

                LoIUl  ro:         (ReclllClI'd)                                Portion of

                Tanellco:                                                          Preis
                      . .           C"plU:ity
                            :      Pnymems                                     Redeemed

                ~~                      ··.....
                                         ···                                         ···
                                                                      ···········
                MiMDiBi


            ··· ·.. Financing Cash Flow

             ·· ·... C"lmci'Y P"~'l'11""t Cnsh Flow




43.     This component is expected to have a return on investment of22% for TANESCO, with a
NPV (at a discount rate of 10%) ofUS$25.4 million and a payback period ofabout four (4) years.
Itis proposed thatthe Government provide the IDA credit for this component on a grant basis to
TANESCO so that the utility receives the complete benefits ofthis restructuring. This would
mean that TANESCO will have no repayment obligation to to the Goveriunent with respect to
this component ofthe IDA credit.                                                              .

             Impact ofProposed Restructuring Component on Songas Capacity Charges


                 ~r----------------------------------------------'




                                                        Post Buy Down



                  1.110




                       ~-~~~~~~--~-----                       v...

                                                                        C POll Buy Down




44.     From the Government's perspective, this component is also a sound investment as it
helps putting TANESCO back on its feet. After accounting for repayment to IDA, this
component has an NPV (at a discount rate of 10%) ofUS$29 million. The conversion oflPTL to
gas, which is also the cornerstone ofTANESCO's FRP, when implemented, together will save
TANESCO about US$50 million per annum for the rest ofthe tenor ofthe lPTL PPA (based on
the current demand forecast and a constant oil price ofUS$60 per bbl). At a discount rate of
10%, the NPV ofthe lPTL conversion to gas is calculated to be about U8$126 million, and an
investment IRR of54%. The cumulative package ofremaining Project investments (IPTL
conversion to gas and reducing capacity charges for Songas for about U8$63 million) are
expected to have a NPVofUS$155 million (net ofinvestments).


                                                            13

  45.      Decomissioning ofWellhead # 6 is critical from an environment and safety perspective. 

  This operation will bring several immediate benefits by: (i) addressing the gas leak: from SS#6; 

  (ii) protecting the health, safety, and environment ofTPDe and PanAfrican staffworking in the
  nearby gas processing pl~ts and ancillary equipment; (iii) eliminating potential danger to the
  nearby airport and active runway; and (iv) providing a safer environment for the population living
  on Songo Songo Island. There is no negative environmental impact to be expected from this
  operation, and to the contrary, this well-decommissioning and capping will eliminate any active
  source ofpossible damage to the health, safety, and environment ofthe people living and working
  there.

  46.      Technical assistance will allow MEM, TANESeO, and TPDe to improve their capacity
  for sound policy making.

 Expected Outcomes

. 47.      The proposed changes do not affect the PD~. Reduction in UEP capacity charges to
  TANEseo will be monitored as part ofthe ongoing TANESeO Financial Analysis by reviewing
  the reduction in the capacity charges payable by TANESeO to Songas on a monthly basis.
  Decommissioning ofWellhead # 6 will be supervised by Bank staffand outcome ofrepairs as per
 industry standards will be recorded. Technical Assistance will be monitored by increased
  knowledge available to TANESeO and TPDe to improve their operational efficiency.

 Risks

  48.      The proposed reduction in UEP capacity charges supports TANESeO's financial
  recovery, which is critical to sector reform. This component has limited risks. Songas and
  TANESeO have already agreed to undertake the proposed exercise ofthe UEP buy down option
  in the Songas PPA. Risks relate to the prepayment of capacity charges to allow for financial
  benefits to accme to TANESeO. However, this risk is mitigated by adequate provisions in the
  PPA that reflect appropriate remedies for TANESeO ifplant availability is impacted.
  Furthermore, TANESeO has a good working relationship with Songas and has a good record of
  monitoring contractual performance ofits private sector partners. Moreover,the plant has been in
  operation for over two years and hence technical risks that generally are associated with such
  plants in early operations have been avoided. In addition, Songas' performance in the two years
  has been good and in-line with industry standards.

  49.      The proposed decommissioning ofwellhead # 6 needs to be undertaken as a matter of 

  urgency for safety reasons. Ifthe PanAfrican rig and ancillary equipment is demobilized, as 

  noted earlier, there is a significant risk that the costs ofthis component may substantially 

  increase, from the current level of circa US$600,000 to four-to-six times that amount, given the 

  (i) current going rate for such equipment and crew rentals and (ii) the enormous cost of 

  mobilization and demobilization ofdrilling and ancillary equipment and required skilled 

  personnel, for the sole use ofthe well #6 decommissioning and closure. 


  E/fectilJeness Conditions

  50.      The Project's Subsidiary Grant Agreement entered into between the Government and 

  TANESeO will need to be revised, as necessary, to take into account the proposed changes. 





                                                       14

                                                                                                                                                                                        AnnexI

                                                       Songo Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project
                                                                Revised Results Framework (December 2007)




(i)to develop the Borrower's   Weighted average energy       USSO.13IkWb                       USSO.092/kWb                       Original Targets Athieved          Gas and Power Statistics
natural gas reserves to        cost for power generate«! in                                                                                                          (TPDe. PanAfHcan,
                                                                                                                                  IPTLPlant converted to natural gas
produce least-costpower        Ubungo for domestic and                                                                                                               Songas. MEMlPMU,
                                                                                                                                  firing; and UEP capacity charges
generation for domestic.and    industrial use (USSlkWb)                                                                                                              TANESCO); Annual
                                                                                                                                  significantly reduced
industrial use in an                                                                                                                                                 Reports (panAfHcan,
envirOnmentally sustainable                                                                                                                                          Songas, !POC,
and efficient manner;                                                                                                                                                TANESCO)

                               Volume ofdomestic gas                                           Electricity 39 Mmcfld              Targets Achieved                   Progress reports & Taking
                               consumption for electricity &                                                                                                         over certificates (MEM,
                                                                                               Production 8 Mmcfld
                               production (Mmcf/d)                                                                                                                   TANESCO)

(ii) to promote private sector New Private Entities iinvest  Limited contractual engagement    Songas in 2002, expanded in 2004   Target achieved 2007               Bank-Tanzania sector
ownership and management       capital and own and operate   with Private Sector in the Power  (operating successfully),                                             dialogw. Supervision
ofthe gas and power sectors;   project in the gas and power  and Gas s~tors                    PanAfrican N with TPOC                                                Reports
and                            sectors                                                         continuing. with expansion plans,
                                                                                               Other private operators- Aggreko,
                                                                                               Dowans, IPTL have begun
                                                                                               operating. Nextpowerprojects are
                                                                                               envisaged as Independent Private
                                                                                               Producers

(iii)encourage increased       Percentage ofelectrification                                    Resettleinent infrastructure       Target Athieved 2007               Progress reports
access ofthe poor to           in unserved areas along the                                     component (RIDS) completed;                                           (TANESCO)
                                                                                                                                  Electrification scheme (WVES)
electricity supply by          conidor ofthe gas pipeline.                                     Electrification scheme (WVES)                                         Annual report (IPTL)
                                                                                                                                  completed
developing financially and                                                                     90% completed                                                         Progress reports
institutionally sustainable                                                                                                                                          (TANESCO)
rural power schemes to                                                                                                                                               Annual report (Songas)
presently unserved areas
along the conidor ofthe gas
pipeline.




                                                                                                 · 


                            I
Gas infrastructure system     Gas processing plant and         Gas infrastructure cOilllleted. Plant  Target achieved                  Economic statistics
completed and operational     ancillary infrastructure         constructed                                                             (panAfiica, Songas,
                              constructed                                                                                              MEMlPMU)

                              Pipeline from Songo Songo        207 \an landline and 25 \an            Target achieved
                              Island to Dar es Salaam          undersea pipeline constructed                                           Annual Reports (Songas)
                              constructed
                                                                                                                                       Progress reports
                                                                                                                                     I(TANESCO,    Songas,
                              Volume ofgas production         I
                                                               Gas production peaked at 50          ITarget  achieved
                                                                                                                                       MBM)
                              for power generation             MmcfJd 2"" Q2006
                              (mmcfJday) in Songas
                              facility.
                                                              I
Ubungo powerplant             No's ofgas turbines             4 gas turbines                        I Targetachieved
conversion ftomJetAl fuel     rehabilillited and converted
to gas firing completed       to gas firing




Livelihood




(8) Wayleave Electrification
Scheme
rn GJlS basedTJart
                             IPercenlllge Completion of       Electrical 80 % completed              100% completion olone 10.2
                              one new gas fired power                                                MYAJ7.5MW power plant
                                                              CiVIl 70% completed
                              station

                              Kms of33kV lines (incl LV       85% of33kV lines completed, 12%        220kms (IOO"A»
                              and service lines)              ofLV and service lines completed
                              constructed)

                              No. ofcustomers connected       0                                     12,759 new consumers connected to
                              to gas-based electricity                                               gas-based electricity




                                                              16 


 (iii Grid extension part     Kms of33kV lines                                   7.9 kin of33kV lines                   Target achieved 2001
                              constructed                                        incl.distribution lines cllTf1l1eted.


                              Kms ofllkV lines                                   11.97 kin of l1kVlines
                              constructed                                        incl.dislribution lines cllTf1lleted.

                              Kms ofLV distribution lines                        9.5 kin ofLV distribution lines
                              for 5 villages constructed                         completed

                              No. ofcustomers connected                                                                 300 customers connected to
                              to the grid south ofDar es                                                                TANESCO grid
                              Salaam

(iii) Waterpart             I Number ofwater holes                               42 water boreholes drilled in 42       Target achieved.2001
                              dril1ed                                            villages

(iv) Songo Songo Islandpart I Kms ofLV line constructed                          5 kin LV line 'constructed             Target achieved 2007

                             Number ofcustomers                                  113 customers connected
                              connected

                             Kms ofwater pipe                                    3 kms ofwater pipe constructed
                              constructed

                             No. ofcustomers having                              4,000 customers have access to
                              access to water                                    water

(b) Resettlement             Kms ofroads built to                                12.8 kms ofroad works constructed I Target achieved 2007
Infulstructure Scheme        Kinyerezi and Salasala
                             resettlement areas

                             No. ofstandpipes operational                           standpipes operational

                             Kms ofHV electricity lines                          10.2 lcm HV electricity lines
                             constructed                                         constructed           .

                             Kms ofLV distribution lines                         7.8 kms LV distribution lines
                             constructed                                         constructed

                             Kms of telecommunication                            1.2 kms oflines constructed
                             lines constructed

(c) Wellhead                 Wellhead SS#6 closed and        New Activity2007    Not Started                            Closing and Decommissioning of  Progress reports
DecOmmissioning              decommissicined                                                                            Wellhead ## 6 completed         (TPDCIMEM)

                                                                                                                                                        Contract documents


                                                                                 17 


Development ofpower and· I Power System Master Plan
gas sector frameworks


                          Technical Studies for 

                          improving operational 

                          efficiencies ofTANESCO 

                          (part C.5 ofthe Project) 


                          Financial and Tariff 

                          Advisory to TANESCO 


                          Advisory support to 

                          TANESCO for preparation 

                          ofpublic/private G, T & D 

                          projeCts; Bidding documents 

                          for next Independent Gas 

                          Power Producer 


                          Feasibility study for LPG          New activity 2007    Not started                     Feasibility study completed         Supervision Aide
                          extract.                                              I     ..                                                              Memoire (WB). Progress

                                                                                  PrellImnary studies completed                                     I Reports. (MEMlI'PDC)
                          Gas Act prepared                   NeW activity 1007                                    Act finalized for consideration by
                                                                                                                  Government

                          TPDC PSA database                  New activity 1007    Not started                     Database for PSAs functional
                          developed         .

                          Advisory support to MEM            New activity 1007    Preliminary Terms ofReferefice  Advisory supportprovided            Supervision Aide
                          for: (i) support development                                                                                                Memoire (WB). Progress
                          or expansion ofprivate or                                                                                                   Reports (MEM)
                          public generation; (ii)
                          support development of
                          domestic or regional, private
                          or public transmission
                          projects; and (iii) support the
                          assessment ofthe contractual
                          and financing ftarneworkof
                          existingprivate power
                          producers, and execution of
                          agreed recommendations to
                          optimize their inclusion as
                          viable tong-term power
                          supply options.




                                                                                  18

Reduced capacity cbarges to Amount ofcapacity charges    New activity 2007    USS14 million perannum (as of  Reduction ofcapacity charges as a  Progress reporting and
TANFSCO arising outof       to TANFSCO for buying                             2007)                          reflection ofamount and timing of  monitoring ofFRP
SongasPPA                   eleclricity from Songas                                                          payment made to Songas under Part  (fANESCO/GoT).
                                                                                                             Dofthe projectandas per            Annual Report (Songas)
                                                                                                             Provision S.S(r) ofthe Songas PP,A

                                                                                                             (USSII million reduction in year ]
                                                                                                             expected based on US$43 nullion
                                                                                                             payment made on January] · 2008)




                                                                              19 


                                                                                                               Annex II

                         Schedule ofPostRestructuring Undisbursed and Committed Amounts -Revised Schedule 1
~n : IDA35890 (IDA)
Status : Disbursing
Country: Tanzania
Project: P002797 - 8ongo 8on90 Gas
Development and Power Generation Project

Related Loans : IDA P7762 · IDA 3569A.
SIDA54487

Category Summary

Currency of Loan Commitment: XDR
Show amounts in XDR




                                                             - 20

                                                                                                             Annexill

                                      Analysis ofUnit Costs ofOutputs

Unit Cost ofOutputs

1.       Unit costs for capacity generation comprise: (a) costs arising out ofthe engineering,
procurement and construction contracts; (b) costs arising out the project development and
management by the project sponsor; and importantly (c) the cost of financing such costs, which
are borne by the project developer. Installed capacity ofUnits 5 and 6, together, is 80 MW, and
rated average capacity at ambient temperatures on site is 80 MW. The following table provides
and overview ofthe unit costs bome by Songas in undertaking the UEP. In addition, it provides a
comparative analysis for such costs. A review ofthe data from the private sector is provided
below which indicates that Songas implemented unit costs are reasonably priced and well within
the usual range of such projects. It is proposed that such costs be accepted as verified unit costs
for project outputs. The unit cost ofthe gas to power generation facility is USS634lkW as a
whole. The UEP project (including gas infrastructure) has a project cost ofUS$49 million for 80
MW of additional capacity i.e. US$613/KW,8 which has been deemed reasonable (see discussion
below).

    Activity            Market        Alternatives 1      Alternative 2        Ubungo            Remarks
                      Standards9      80 MWSimple         80 MWComb.         Expansion
                                       Cycle Gas            Cycle Gas           Plant
                                         Turbine             Turbine
Expect&d Total                        US$55 million       US$100 million       USUB.6        Reasonablywell
Costs                                 +/- 20% based     +/- 20" based on       millIon       priced; given the .
                                        on market            marlcet                         ufQent time line
                                       conditions           condItIons
»Engineering,       65-70% of total                                          86% of total       Wellpriced,
  Procurement           costs                                                   costs           considering
  and                                                                                        overall low costof
  Construction                                                                                 development
  Contracts

»CIvIllnstallab    20-30% of total
  and              costs
  CommissioninQ
»Cost  arising out   5-10% of total         -                   -            14% of total    Marginally higher
  the project       costs for pubIC                                             costs        costs; normal for
  development .    procurement; 10                                                            private projects
  and              15% for relatJvely
  management         small private
  by the project     procurement
  sponsor
»Financing            Depends on       20-25% ROE,       20-25% ROE. 10      22% ROE (as
  Costs            Market Conditions  10-12% APR on      12% APR on Debt      per market
                                           Debt                              conditions In
                                                                                2004)


2.        About 80 MW of additional capacity was procured by TANESCO. Ifthe Songas option
was not available to TANESCO, the alternative would have been to procure a new 70-80 MW
diesel based IPP in the emergency conditions in 2004.10 The following chart provides an .
overview ofalternative costs ofproviding diesel or BFO based similar power generating capacity


8The total UEP project costs are US$57 million, ofwhich about US$49 million were spent on the power generation 

aspects. Remaining were spent on extension of gas pipeline infrastructure to accept additional generation facilities. 

9Based on Market due diligence carried out by the Bank, including discussions with major suppliers ofequipment 

such as Siemens, ABB, GE etc. 

10The only available sites for gas to power for quick installation were in Songas's premises. New s~tes, their 

clearing and installation ofgas transm:il!sion infrastructure facilities would have taken more time and money. 




                                                        - 21 

to TANESCO. It is clear from the following table that the non-fmancial cost basis ofthe Songas
Unit's 5 and 6 units are very reasonably priced when compared to the alternatives available to
TANESCO at the time. With the execution of the proposed component. financing costs will
reduce dramatically, making the Songas Units 5 and 6 a viable operating asset, thereby improving
TANESCO's cash flow situation.

                                  SmallDieselIPPs- Constructioll Costper U,dt (US$lkW)

SODias OCGT- USI684/kW

        1400

                                                                                                                                / 

        1200


                                                                   -                                   ~ 

        1000

                               f.
                          ~
         800


         600
                    L 

         400


         200




           SolJ1"C/il: Understlmding Tan:zania's Independent Power Projects. University ofCape TaWIl GradllDte School ofBusiness - Katherine
           Gratwick. Rebecca Ght1lllldtm GndAntoft Eberhard                                                                       .


3.      The following chart provides a timeline showing the unit costs ofthe·Investment and unit
cost ofmaintenance when compared to the availability ofinstalled plant capacity and the actual
(or projected) generation from the Songas complex.

                       AnalysisofSongas Con'plex UnitIlIllestment andMaintenance Costs

                                                                                                                                     III
                                                                                                                                 U
                                                                                                                                 3.0 ~~.Ii

                                  r-------------------------t                                                                        ISsf
                                                                                                                                 VI j;
                                                                                                                                     t8t;-II ...
                                                                                                                                 2.O~181
                                                                                                                                 1.5 ~
                                                                                                                                     :);    <

              r-~T-'-------------------------------------__----__4'.O ~
         400




            J J J J J J J J                                                                 I l ; J
       ~EleclritllyGlII1IIrailld(GWh) - _linen! CoslperIiIK. Avllilabla ,00US$IMNh) __UIIIMalnlenenceCOl! (US$IMWI» -.-Available CapacityrOO /NIl


4.      Furthermore, in 2006, TANESCO conducted an International Competitive Bidding
process to procure an additional 100 MW of gas based capacity. The following table provides



                                                                            - 22

details regarding this bidding process. As it can be seen the UEP costs (US$613IKW in 2004;
with 7% annual ~ation) is still well within the range ofreasonable market pricing.

                       2006 TANESCO International Competitive Bidding for Gas Turbines
                           (Response to the leB for 100 MW Pennanent Plant Ubungo May 12, 2006)


                    Bidder                              Plant Type   Plant Capacity   Bid Price    Bid Price
                                                                          MW            US$         US$lkW
Renco SPA Italy                                       Gas Turbines      103.57       69911455       675.02
Magelian Canada                                       Gas Turbines         96       63,945~286.40   874.43
Richmond Development Company USA                      Gas Turbines       117.8       64000.000      543.29
Wartsila Oy Finland                                   Gas Engines        102.5       73.913686      721.1"1
Unatrac Intemational Egypt                            Gas Turbines      107.52       68000000       632.44
ABB AG Germanv                                        Gas Turbines         90        71.295,107     792.17
Note. Bid pnces inclUSIVe ofcost ofstep-up transfonners.

5.         In addition, both,Units 5 and 6 (the UEP) have been installed, and have begw
commercial operations -'these writs have been in operations for the last 2 years. A review ofthe
Songas operations shows that Songas has maintained and operated these writs to international
standards. Under the present Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) With TANESCO, Songas is
contractually obligated to make a minimum of 192 MW ofcapacity available toTANESCO at all
times, based on an expected Load Factor. In an eventthat Songas is unable to provide such
capacity (for reasons other than Force Majeure Events, liquidated damages arise under the Songas
Implementation Agreement. andTANESCO can terminate the PPA.

6.         TANESCO and TPDC have a joint right to buy the facilities in consideration ofa
contractually pre-agreed purchase price. Songas is at present owned by Globeleq ofUK as a
majority shareholder, which has an excellent track record in developing, operating and              '
maintaining power projects. Given there highly satisfactory performance inTanzania, in other
parts ofAfrica and the world, contractually binding obligations to make the capacity available
(the output), and resulting liquidated damages and rights for buy-out to TANBSCO. and most
importantly, that the new units and ancillary equipment has been installed and verified. costs have
been verified (pre- and post- Bank support), a clearbasis for disbursement has been established.




                                                                 - 23

                                                                                                       AmtexIV

                                               ProcurementPlan (December 1007)

1. Goods, Works, and Non Consulting Services

(a) List ofcontractpackages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting and other methods ofcontracting:




                                           B.C;                            No     No




                                          C.6(b)    150,000      lCB       No     No      Prior    Feb22,2008   MEMlTPDC




2. Consulting Services

(a) List ofconsulting assignments with short-liSt of intema~onal firms.




                                                                                                                TANESCO




   2.1     Legal, lIIIam;"..., [eCnnIIClll.
           environmental advisors to: (i) support                              (first.
           development or expansion ofprivate or                              contract)
           public generation; (ii) support
           development ofdomestic or regional,
           private orpublic transmission projects;
           and (iii) support the assessment ofthe
           contractual and financing framework of
           existing private power producers, and
           execution ofagreed recommendations to
           optimize their inclusion as viable long-

                                                                               QCBS       Prior  Feb. 25,

                                                          C.6(a)    100,000




                                                                  -24 


