Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17949
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG HEADWORKS PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 2430-NEP)
June 3, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$ 1.0:    NRs 40.00        1991 (at appraisal)
NRs 43.00       1992
NRs 49.00       1993
NRs 49.70       1994
NRs 54.00       1995
NRs 56.90       1996
NRs 60.70       1997 (at ICR preparation)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)  = 3.28 feet
I kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres =1.50 bighas
I million cubic meter (Mm3) = 810 acre-feet or 35.3 Mft3
I cubic meter per second (m3/s) = 35.31 cubic foot per second (cfs)
I cubic foot per second (cfs) = 0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/sec)
1 metric ton = 2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMC         Chatra Main Canal
DOI         Department of Irrigation
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
HMGN       His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
M & E      Monitoring & Evaluation
NEA        Nepal Electricity Authority
NISP       Nepal Irrigation Sector Project
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PCR        Project Completion Report
PPAR       Project Performance Audit Report
POE        Panel of Expert
POP        Project Operation Plan
RWS        Rotational Water Supply
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SMHP       Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
SMIDB    Sunsari Morang Irrigation Development Board
SMIP      Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project
SMIS      Sunsari Morang Irrigation System
WUA       Water Users'Association
WUGs    Water Users'Groups
GLOSSARY
cumilecs   cubic meters per second
k-harif    Wet Season (June to October)
masl      meter above sea level
rahi      Dry Season (November to February)
:   Vi,ce Prcsident              -Mieko Nishimizu
X   Country Director             -               ans Rtenbuhier
Sector Managers             -Michacl Baxter and Ridwan Ali
IL                           Task Tcami Leader            -Ohn Myint



NEPAL                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUNSARI MORANG HEADWORKS PROJECT
(Credit 2430-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................                                                       ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .........................................................                              1
A. Project Objectives ..................................................1l
B. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................                                      2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................                8
D. Project Sustainability ...................................................9
E. Bank Performance .................................................. 10
F. Borrower Performance ...................................................11
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................11
H. Future Operation .................................................. 12
I. Key Lessons Learned .................................................                                            13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1. Summary of Assessments ..................................................                                  14
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................................                              16
Table 3. Project Timetable .................................................. 17
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual . .......................... 17
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .................................................                  18
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation .................................................. 19
Table 7. Studies Included in the Project .................................................. 20
Table 8A. Project Costs .................................................. 21
Table 8B. Project Financing .................................................                                       22
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................                              23
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... 24
Table 11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................. 27
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................... 28
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions .................................................. 29
APPENDICES
1 Mission's Aide-Memoire .................................................. 30
2 Economic Re-evaluation .................                                                                           41
3 Borrower's Evaluation ................. 67
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG HEADWORKS PROJECT
(Credit 2430-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sunsari Morang
Headworks Project in Nepal, for which Credit 2430-NEP in the amount of SDR19.0
million (US$28.0 million equivalent) was approved on November 5, 1992 and made
effective on January 22, 1993. The Credit closed as scheduled on December 31, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Ohn Myint, Task Leader, and reviewed by Michael
Baxter, Manager, Rural Development Sector Unit of the South Asia Region.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission in November 1997. It is based on material in the project
file as well as field investigation and discussions with project staff. The Borrower
contributed to the ICR through arranging field visits during the completion mission,
preparation of a Project Completion Report (PCR), available from the South Asia
Information Center, and a Borrower's Evaluation Report, attached as Appendix 3 to this
report.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG HEADWORKS PROJECT
(Credit Number 2430-NEP)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Sunsari Morang Headworks Project (SMHP) financed the supplementary
infrastructure necessary to provide adequate year-round silt-free irrigation water to the
Sunsari Morang Irrigation System which the two earlier investment projects - Sunsari
Morang Irrigation Project (SMIP) Phase I and Phase II failed to provide. The ICR should
therefore be read in conjunction with the SAR and ICR of SMIP-II (Cr. 1814-NEP).
Project Objectives
2.    The infrastructure funded under the project aimed to achieve the overall project
objectives of: (a) providing the system with silt-free irrigation water during the monsoon
season, through construction of a desilting basin equipped with dredging facilities for
continuous dredging; and (b) elimination of a dry season sand bar blockage at the existing
intake, through construction of a new intake upstream.
3.    The project, implemented over a five-year period, included the following
components: (a) construction of a new intake near the Chatra Gorge on the Kosi River
upstream from the existing intake; (b) construction of a culvert to carry water from the new
intake to the pre-settling basin; (c) construction of a new pre-settling basin upstream from
the existing intake; (d) modification of the existing intake and channel; (e) improvement of
the desilting basin completed under SMIP II; (f) provision of dredging facilities for
desilting; (g) construction of a small hydro-power plant in the main canal to run the
dredging facilities; (h) management, operation and maintenance, and staff training in
dredger operation; and (i) technical assistance for construction, supervision and training.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Due to two unexpected floods which occurred during construction, the project
works were satisfactorily completed on May 31, 1996, about six month behind schedule,
but still about one and a half years prior to the Credit closing date of December 31, 1997.
Had advanced procurement of three ICB contracts not taken place prior to the Board
presentation of the Credit, these delays in the completion of works could have affected the
training for dredger O&M and commissioning, and the turning over of the headworks to the
Borrower.



5.    During the implementation period, there were a number of changes to key project
staff, i.e., project manager and senior divisional engineers. There have been five project
managers at different periods of project implementation. Though in accord with HMGN's
transfer regulations for government staff, these frequent turnovers greatly affected project
implementation during its early stages and equally at the final wind-up, which resulted in
project management's inability to reach decisions promptly on some ICB contractual issues
affecting project closure, e.g. procurement, disbursement and contractual settlement,
training and systems operation.
6.    The following cases are examples of implementation problems: (a) long delay in
turnover of hydropower station to the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) despite Cabinet's
approval; (b) inadequate attention of project management to the low level of water charges
collection; (c) unsettled disputes with SMHP/02 dredger supplier/contractor on contractual
liabilities for default till near to closure, so affecting the training program and spares
procurement; and (d) absence of key NEA staff in the training and commissioning of the
hydropower station works.
7.    The infrastructure funded under the project achieved the two major project
objectives of: (a) providing silt-free irrigation water during the monsoon season, through
construction of the desilting basin and provision of dredging facilities for continuous
operation; and (b) elimination of the sand blockage at the intake during the dry season,
through construction of the new intake upstream  from the old intake.  The small
hydropower station constructed on the main canal to provide power to the dredging facilities
was an added achievement.
8.    Commencement of full operation was realized in June 1995 with assured year-round
supply of water at designed capacity, which would allow significant increases in cropping
area and changed cropping patterns during the dry season, and assured supplemental
irrigation during the monsoon season.
9.    Completion of the new headworks with remodeling (modernization) of the existing
irrigation systems in the Stage I command area, the rehabilitation of existing irrigation
facilities, and the development of the distribution systems in the Stage II command area
(funded under SMIP I and II Credits), have now enabled cropping intensities to increase
substantially from 135 percent during the 1990/91 "pre-project" scenario to 171-179 percent
in Stages I and II, and 150 percent in Stage III during 1995/96.  These changes are
expected to increase to percent in 2000/01 in all areas.
10.   Despite some problems with turns and time-sharing, the rotational water supply
system (RWS) worked satisfactorily and was accepted by farmers who initiated construction
of field channels. Presently, field channels cover more than 50 percent of the command
area.



iv
11.   Water charges collection in the system needs further improvement. Effective
FY1998, HMGN increased water charges from NRs.200 to NRs.400/ha to cover the full
O&M charges in the developed areas. However, at the time of the ICR, only 28 percent of
dues were being recovered from beneficiary farmers, in contravention of the provision in the
Development Credit Agreement. The low rate of recovery is partly due to the inability of
the authorities to take action on defaulters, and partly due to farmers' low confidence in the
system, which needs to be built-up over time.
12.   Through the project, the system is now equipped with computerized facilities for
project monitoring which would provide valuable information for the determination of the
system's efficiency. The M&E division of SMIP had also taken on a new importance in
that it is now headed by a senior officer. A full telephone link between the Project
Manager's office, senior engineers' at headquarters and operators at important control
structures is needed.
13.   Since commissioning of the dredgers in June 1995, training in dredger O&M by
expatriate consultants was imparted continuously to project staff until Credit closing in
December 1997. Hand-on training was imparted to two dredger teams. However, due to a
lack of motivation for permanent staff, establishment of a full O&M team headed by
qualified mechanical/electrical permanent staff has not been achieved. Specific training to
project staff by the supplier of the hydropower station was also carried out in which all of
the project's O&M staff benefited from hands-on site training, at one time or another,
particularly on operations procedures for the headworks. Farmers' training in RWS
initiated at the commencement of SMIP II continued through June 1997 under the guidance
of the Water Management consultants, and covers about 60 percent of the training of
WUGs.
14.   Actual Project Costs. Estimated total project cost at the time of Credit closing on
December 31, 1997, was about US$ 30.6 million or about 86 percent of the SAR estimate in
US Dollars, out of which about US$ 4.74 million was funded under SMIP II Credit. In
Rupee terms, this is about NRs. 1,595.0 million (in real terms) or about 101 percent of SAR
estimate.
15.   Of the total IDA Credit of SDR 19.0 million (US$ 28.0 million equivalent), SDR
1.7 million (US$ 2.5 million equivalent) was canceled just prior to credit closure. As of
May 31, 1998, a total of SDR16.0 million (US$ 23.19 million equivalent) had been
disbursed, leaving an undisbursed balance of SDR1.3 million (US$ 1.74 million equivalent)
which will be canceled in due course.
16.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR). An economic re-evaluation had been carried out
for the various scenarios which included the additional benefit from hydropower
generation, and savings in pre-project desilting costs. Based on the pre-project and "with
project" cropping patterns, cropping intensities and yields, and actual project
expenditures, ERRs are estimated at 20 percent for the free standing SMHP and including
SMIP Stages I and II, and 20-49 percent for a time-slice of the larger Sunsari Morang



v
Irrigation Project including Stages I and I[, SMHP and further development in Stage Il.
These compare favorably with the project appraisal estimates. The economic analysis of
the SMHP should be viewed in conjunction with the results of the economic analysis
shown in the SMIP I ICR (ref. SMIP  ICR No. 15336, dated February 7,1996).
Project Sustainability and Key Factors for achieving Objectives
17.   The project achieved the main physical objectives of providing silt-free irrigation
water during the rainy season, and elimination of the sand blockage at the intake during
the dry season. However, the sustainability of the project is contingent on the
Government's commitment to ensure sustained support of O&M of the infrastructure
developed under the project, coupled with incentives for O&M staff assigned to the
remote area where the project is located. It is also important to take firm action on cost
recovery. The headwork is the artery of the whole irrigation system. The requirement for
O&M is not much. Under resource scarce conditions, it is important to give priority to
allocating adequate O&M funding required for the headworks. So long as enough funds
are provided for the adequate level of O&M of the infrastructure installed under the
project, the headworks sustainability is likely.
18.   Risks. Common to any large-scale public irrigation system, SMHP faced technical
and institutional risks. As regards technical risks, water extraction structures installed
under the project are located in one of the world's largest rivers, and this still has an
active channel process with enormous destructive power and located in a geologically
fragile zone of the Himalayas. The risks of failure increase if infrastructure regulations
are not adhered to. These risks are minimized by following the advice of the international
Panel of Experts (POE), providing the requisite training for project staff is undertaken,
improved operational practices are continuously applied, and staff continuity is assured.
On the institutional aspect, a notable achievement is the provision of on-the-job training
to all operational staff and project beneficiaries for two years after completion of
construction. But a risk faced by the project is the unwillingness of the trained O&M
staff to stay in the remote area where the headworks are located. Provision of incentive
and motivation to trained staff working in a remote area is necessary. Mitigation
activities, such as staff training and improved O&M will be continued in the recently
approved Nepal Irrigation Sector Project (NISP) (Credit 3009-NEP). If these institutional
aspects are not thoroughly addressed, the project's long-term sustainability can be
seriously jeopardized.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
19.   The project generally achieved its main physical objectives and its overall
outcome is therefore rated as satisfactory. The satisfactory outcome of the project is
based on its physical performance alone and the assumption that benefits will build up
following completion of the project, and that farmers' collaboration in O&M will be
sustained. Events which could result in the decline in project sustainability includes
potential systems failure resulting from improper and inadequate maintenance due to lack
of Borrower's commitment and potential political intervention on the issue of collection



vi
of water charges. HMGN's past track record on O&M support is dismal. For this reason,
project sustainability is rated uncertain. Bank performance overall is rated satisfactory.
Borrower performance is also rated satisfactory, except for project preparation where it
is rated deficient due to delays in reaching decision on project design.
20.   Provision of training and guidance to farmers and WUAs has to be continued until
the water management system is well-rooted in the project area. Funds have been
earmarked under the NISP for this purpose. At present, almost half of the system area
remains to be developed. With the proper use of the new headworks, the Borrower
should be able continue to sustain the momentum achieved in the SMIP I and II in order
to obtain the same benefits for the remaining areas. Water charges collection should
however be differentiated in the fully developed (Stage I and II), partially developed
(Stage I) and the remaining undeveloped areas. Under NISP, an agreement has been
sought from the Borrower to carry out a detailed study on water charges collection issues
and remedial measures.
21.   Future Operation. The Project Operation Plan (POP) and Project Completion
Report (PCR) of SMHP and SMIP II describe the required O&M organization and the
resources requirement for the system's O&M. For the headworks alone, the resources
requirement is in the order of NRs. 2.0 million. The computerized water management
model installed under the project, if properly used, can enhance the system's efficiency.
In order to evaluate the future performance of the project, constant and close monitoring
and evaluation practices need to be instituted in the system. The monitoring system must
be efficient and transparent to the users and to the staff. Evaluation should be based on
(a) actual irrigated area in each season using irrigation boundary maps; (b) assessment of
water charges based on area irrigated; (c) amount of water charges collected and used for
O&M; and (d) agricultural production.  This monitoring needs a well-organized
institution with highly-motivated staff. Constraints on sustainability of monitoring are:
(a) budget commitment; (b) appreciation of monitoring by project management and staff;
and (c) improved management of the whole organization.
22.   Recorded water levels in the river at the new intake during the low flow season,
are falling in the last two years. Possible causes are the degradation of the river channel
and/or an occurrence of low hydrological cycle. Data at the new intake and upper
gauging sites should be analyzed to identify the causes and to forecast the future trends.
23.   The facilities for sediment monitoring in the project are inadequate and need to be
urgently upgraded under the NISP. Training of existing staff and recruitment of
additional manpower is required. The follow-up O&M arrangement for the dredger is not
satisfactory, particularly in spare parts purchase.



vii
24.   Key lessons learned from the project are:
* for important infrastructure projects like SMHP, the arrangements for procurement
and a management plan of ICB contract should be agreed and finalized before credit
effectiveness;
* organizational arrangements for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure
installed under the project must be finalized and in place prior to commencement of
commissioning and takeover;
* limiting turnover of key project personnel is critical when dealing with ICB contracts
to avoid disputes, penalties and delinquencies in contractual obligations;
* the success of operation and sustainability of infrastructure projects depends on
physical soundness of structures, as well as a project's social and organizational
responsiveness to the concerns of all stakeholders;
* O&M arrangements should be in place and tested for at least one year before the
closure of a Credit;                                   I
e commitment of the Government to impose and implement service charges to cover
full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement is important; and
e transparency to beneficiaries of O&M expenditures is important to win their
confidence in the maintenance system.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG HEADWORKS PROJECT
(Credit 2430-NEP)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.    The Sunsari Morang Irrigation System is the largest public irrigation system in the
Eastern Region of Nepal. It diverts water from the Kosi River, and commands a gross
irrigable area of about 68,000 ha. The Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project (SMIP-formerly
known as the Chatra Canal Project) was initiated in 1964 by the Government of India,
(GOI) in accordance with the 1954 Kosi Agreement between GOI and His Majesty's
Government of Nepal (HMGN).' Under this agreement, GOI undertook to finance and
construct the Chatra Canal Project (CCP) in Nepal to irrigate a net area of about 58,000
ha, using water diverted from the left bank of the Kosi River at about 20 km upstream of
the Kosi Barrage at the Indian border. After trial operations, the SMIP was handed over
by GOI to HMGN in 1975. However, the project, as handed over to HMGN lacked
minor irrigation distribution networks which were supposed to be constructed by HMGN.
2.     Since inception, SMIP  was plagued by siltation problem  which became
progressively worse over the years as the Kosi River course migrated westward, and
which small-scale remedial works failed to contain. The siltation problem was of two
types: during the rainy season when river water is abundant, it is silt-laden; but during
the dry season when water is silt-free and flowing low, the intake point is marooned with
sandbars impeding sufficient intake discharge from the main stream of the Kosi River for
dry season irrigation. The problem is exacerbated by the lack of minor irrigation
distribution networks. As a result, SMIP, as originally built, failed to achieve its
objective.
Statement of Project Objectives
3.    IDA's involvement in the SMIP started in 1978 with the approval of the first stage
SMIP I (Credit 812-NEP) for US$30 million for the rehabilitation of sediment-laden
This bilateral agreement dated April 25, 1954, as amended on December 19, 1966, states that "HMGN shall have every right to
withdraw for irrigation and for other purposes in Nepal water from the Kosi river and from the Sun-Kosi River or within the
Kosi Basin from any other tributaries of the Kosi River as may be required from time to time. The Union shall have the right
to regulate all the balance in the Kosi River at the barrage site thus available from time to time and to generate power in the
Eastern Canal.



2
conveyance canal system, and completion of minor irrigation network on the first 9,750
ha. Later in 1987, IDA approved a second stage SMIP II (Credit 1814-NEP) for US$40
million for the similar command area development of a further 16,700 ha. Both projects,
which were physically completed satisfactorily in 1987 and 1995, respectively, provided
infrastructure to eliminate the siltation problem. However, the measures provided to
eliminate the siltation problem proved insufficient and ineffective rendering a significant
part of the completed works inoperable after one operation due to siltation2. The search
for the correct technical solution to the problem was actively supported by the Bank, but
proved extremely lengthy and difficult due to HMGN's concern for the project's
complexity and the resultant costs. Finally, in 1991 an international Panel of Experts
(POE) was convened to advise HMGN on how to deal with the siltation problem during
the rainy season and the intake blockage problem during the dry season.
4.     As a result, a new  IDA  Credit of US$28.0 million for the Sunsari Morang
Headworks Project (SMHP-Credit 2430-NEP) was approved on November 5, 1992, at the
time that SMIP II was still under implementation. The project's objective was to provide
silt-free irrigation water to the SMIP through implementation of the POE's
recommendations which included moving the intake site 1,300 meters upstream into the
Chatra Gorge, and providing a very large desilting basin equipped with two dredgers.
The new site of the intake was intended to allow easy extraction of designed discharge
water year-round, and the new desilting basin equipped with dredgers would permit
desilting of the extracted sediment-laden water during the monsoon.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.     Realism  and Innovation.  The design solution to protect the Sunsari Morang
Irrigation System against siltation was conceptually clear to both appraisal teams of the
SMIP I and SMP II projects since inception, and it was also not an unusually demanding
objective for the Borrower.3   However, decision-making for adoption  of effective
sediment control works took considerably longer than necessary in both projects, due to
the Borrower's concern over costs and complexity. Both Credits were approved without
ascertaining a complete solution. Without the continuous dredging facility, the hydraulic
flushing through the use of vortex tubes installed in SMIP I, as well as a small desilting
basin constructed under SMEP-II, could not remove the heavy sediment volume carried by
the parent Kosi river. For these reasons, the achievement of the objective of SMIP I and
SMIP II of ensuring sustainable and equitable distribution of irrigation was doubtful, until
the commencement in 1993 of the Sunsari Morang Headworks Project (SMHP). The
The SAR mentioned that the system was faced with serious siltation problem as soon as it opened after Stage I completion in
July 1986. The minor canals and water courses suffered and many of them lost half of their conveyance capacity in one season
and farmers could not keep pace with the rapid rate of siltation. After introduction of the larger desilting basin, siltation was
controlled. However, due to non-continuous removal of silt deposit, the capacity of the basin diminished and the system
suffered from about 40% sediment ingress.
Desilting with dredgers have been widely practiced in the neighboring State of West Bengal in India and limitedly used in
Nepal in some hydro-electric stations. But for the DOL the technology may be novel and there was a thinldng that technical
uptake may be slower.



3
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for SMIP I, dated May 1990, highlighted the
fact that the objective of the Stage I project was not achieved satisfactorily until 1990,
without a properly designed follow-up project to resolve the sediment issue.
6.     Complexity. Under SMIP II, no effective solution was adopted initially due to
HMGN's concern over the complexity and cost of the solution provided by the technical
appraisal teams. The SMIP II project provided funds for dredgers and a larger desilting
basin, but it was not sufficient to cover the entire works recommended by the POE. The
larger desilting basin constructed in 1992 under SMIP II had proven a partial success by
trapping 50-60% of sediment.4 However, to be sustainable, it needed to be equipped with
dredgers for continuous desilting during ingress of sediment. The continuous dredging
would provide enough room in the desilting basin for higher silt-trapping efficiency.
HMGN's concern over the cost of the dredgers further delayed the search for a technical
solution to the sedimentation problem.
7.    In searching for solutions to the sedimentation problem, Nepal faced technical and
institutional risks common to large-scale public irrigation projects in the country. The
technical risks were mitigated by following the advice of the POE on the technical design.
The institutional risks were mitigated by funding under the project of on-the-job training
of O&M project staff and farmers in the operation and regulation of the system's
facilities. These risks will further be mitigated provided HMGN is committed to
prioritize O&M funding within its limited resources, and to provide continuous support of
the training program beyond the project years.
Project Components
8.    Implemented over a five-year period, the project included the following main
components: (a) construction of a new intake near the Chatra Gorge upstream from the
existing intake; (b) construction of a culvert to carry water from the new intake to the pre-
settling basin; (c) construction of a new pre-settling basin upstream from the existing
intake; (d) modification of the existing intake and channel; (e) improvement of the
desilting basin completed under SMIP II; (f) provision of dredging facilities for desilting;
(g) construction of a small power plant to run 'the dredging facilities; (h) management,
operation and maintenance, and staff training in dredger operation; and (i) consultant
services for construction, supervision and training.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Achievement
9.     The infrastructure funded under the project achieved the overall project objectives
of: (a) providing  silt-free irrigation  water during the monsoon  season, through
4
The siltation measurements taken at different sections of the system showed that by having a larger desilting basin alone can
effectively reduce the sediment ingress volume by about 60% of its total (about 400,000 m3), though the trapping efficiency
declines as soon as the basin is filled up with sediment



4
construction of the larger desilting basin, and provision of dredging facilities for
continuous dredging operation; and (b) elimination of the sandbar blockage at the old
intake during the dry season, through provision of the new intake upstream. The small
hydropower station constructed on the main canal to provide power to the dredging
facilities was also an added achievement.
10.   Since commencement of full operation in June 1995, the system achieved assured
year-round supply of water at designed capacity. The new intake now has a capacity to
supply up to 60.0 cumecs year-round, which would allow significant increases in the
cropping area and cropping patterns during the dry season, and assure supplemental
irrigation during the monsoon season. This compares with the original maximum design
discharge of 45.3 cumecs at the Chatra Main Canal (CMC).
Physical Objectives
11.   The following physical objectives of the project have been achieved:  (a)
construction of a new intake near the Chatra Gorge some 1,300 meters upstream from the
existing intake; (b) construction of a reinforced concrete culvert to convey water from the
new intake to a pre-settling basin; (c) construction of a new stone masonry pre-settling
basin and a flushing sluice upstream from the existing intake; (d) enhancement of the
existing intake and construction of a channel to the enlarged desilting basin; (e)
enhancement of the desilting basin completed under SMIP II; (f) installation of a small
hydro-power plant; (g) 19 manmonths of training by an expatriate staff to local staff on
dredger operation; and (h) technical support and training in design, construction,
supervision and water management.
12.  In addition to the physical improvements on the intake due to the remodeling
(modernization) of the existing irrigation systems in Stage I command area, the
rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities, and the development of the distribution
systems in Stage II command area, cropping intensities have increased substantially from
135 percent during the 1990/91 "pre-project" scenario to 171-179 percent in Stages I and
II, and 150 percent in Stage III area during 1996/97. These changes are expected to
increase to 198 percent in 2000/01 in all areas.
13.   Water Management. Irrigation water now supplied to the farmers is relatively
sediment-free (free of sediment size larger than 0.06 micron) and distributed equitably in
the developed areas of SMIP I and II. Despite some problems with turns and time-
sharing, in general, rotational water supply (RWS) introduced in the SMIP II worked
fairly well, and farmers were generally satisfied. There is greater recognition among the
farmers of the importance of RWS, and their cooperation in making the system work is
more systematic and forthcoming, including increased activity among the farmers in the
construction of field channels. Project management reported that the field channels
cover more than 50 percent of the command area. in the developed areas in Stage II.



5
14.   Cost Recovery. The total O&M requirement at full development of the whole
SMIP, including headworks, and O&M of the tertiary network to be managed by
beneficiary farmers, would be about NRs.750 per ha.(1997 constant price). The costs
constitute NRs. 140/ha for the O&M of the Headworks and Main Canal system, including
administration overhead, and about NRs. 480 to 400 per ha for the distribution system,
down from secondary canals. Net of beneficiary farmers contribution after taking over
the minor distribution system by them, the required amount for O&M would be about
NRs.300400 per ha. Since inception of the system up to early 1994, collection of water
charges in the project area was non-existent due to poor performance of the system and
lack of WUG organization. Since completion of SMIP-II in 1994, and partial delivery of
silt-free water, the project has been going through a period of adjustment in the
enforcement of water charges collection. Up until FY96-97, HMGN's water charges rate
was NRs. 200 per ha, which was never revised in the last decade. Effective FY1998,
HMGN increased water charges from NRs.200 to NRs.400/ha. However, at the time of
the ICR mission, only 28 percent of dues are being recovered from beneficiary farmers.
The Development Credit Agreement of SMHP specifies that "the Borrower shall charge
and collect in Stage I and Stage II areas, determined in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Association to have received adequate supplies of silt-free irrigation
water, a rate sufficient to cover the cost of O&M of the distribution canals above the
minor block, together with the pro-rata share of the cost of O&M of the main and
distribution canals." Despite increased silt-free water supply over the last two years, cost
recovery has been dismal, an indication that farmers' confidence in the system has not yet
been fully achieved and needs to be built-up. For optimal O&M of the system, an annual
O&M budget of NRs. 40 million will be required. Past records show that the actual
annual budget allotment for O&M never exceeded NRs. 15 million. If SMIP is to be
sustainable, HMGN should provide the full budget requirement for optimal O&M, and
the effective O&M must be done in the field. Recognizing its budget limitation, HMGN
should prioritize by providing at least full budget allocation in the order of about NRs.6-9
million per annum for O&M of the headworks and the main delivery system
15.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  Through the project, SMIP is now
equipped with computerized facilities for project monitoring and evaluation.  In
particular, the following aspects of the project are being covered by the new computerized
monitoring and evaluation system: (a) water management scheduling and allocation
model; (b) computerized data bases for monitoring of agricultural impact, covering socio-
economic and routine crop production surveys; and (c) computerized accounting system.
A senior officer now heads the M&E division of SMIP to undertake the additional task of
monitoring the works and output of the newly-equipped M&E division.
16.   The project is also now equipped with a device to measure flows in the CMC,
secondary canals, and tertiary/watercourse system, to record the volume of water
delivered at each stage of the canal system to the field. If properly recorded and analyzed,
the results of monitoring of the flow through these stages would provide valuable
information for determination of the system's efficacy and efficiency.



6
17.   Training of Operations Staff and Farmers.  During installation, and in
particular, since commissioning of the dredgers in June 1995, training in dredger O&M
by expatriate consultants was imparted continuously to project staff until the Credit
closing in December 1997. Two dredger teams comprising of eight local staff were
trained. In addition, specific training to project staff by the supplier of the hydropower
station was also carried out. All of the project's O&M staff benefited from hands-on site
training during the floods of 1996, particularly on operations procedures for the new
intake structure and headworks. Farmers' training on rotational water supply (RWS)
method, initiated at the commencement of SMIP II, continued through June 1997 under
the guidance of the Water Management consultants of the project, and covered about 60
percent of the training of WUGs planned under SMIP II.
18.   Technical Issues at Implementation and Operation. The proper transfer of
technical know-how on O&M of dredgers and the micro-hydropower station, was carried
out during the project implementation and commissioning periods, by allowing expatriate
training consultants and local crews to work together for nearly two successive years.
However, due to the remoteness of the headwork site, difficulties were encountered in the
sanctioning of new specialized staff posts, and staff who were trained were mostly project
appointed non-regular staff. Additionally, the handing over of the hydropower station to
the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) by the Department of Irrigation has suffered long
delays, and, at the time of the ICR mission, was still outstanding. The availability of
skilled manpower at NEA will help resolve the issue of the hydropower station O&M.
However, in the case of dredger O&M, the lack of a permanent work team to handle
periodical maintenance of the dredgers is posing a problem for the system's
sustainability, in view of the remoteness of the headworks site. The project management
is introducing a bonus system for the dredging crews and contracting out the O&M of
dredgers to a private mechanical workshop.
19.   The dredging operation of the last two years in the desilting basin continues to be
restricted to a bed elevation of about 104.00 masl, instead of the design basin bed
elevation of about 101.70 masl. This has reduced the amount of sediment that can be
removed from the diverted flow to below the design values. As the discharge in the canal
will increase in the future, the efficacy of the basin will be further reduced. This is a
serious limitation on the sediment control facilities of the project. It is necessary to desilt
the basin to the designed bed level.
20.   The present performance of dredging operation is not satisfactory. The conditions
for the desilting and dredging operation during 1996 and 1997 flow seasons have been
nearly ideal. Yet, the actual amount of dredging has been less than the design. At
present, the dredging equipment is in poor condition, and important spare parts have been
almost used up. The technical services of an expatriate dredge master was not renewed.
As mentioned earlier, project management will contract dredger O&M to private
contractors.



7
21.   The security of dredging operation depends on the existence of an active eastern
channel at the discharge end of the dredge pipes. This channel should be annually
surveyed for its size, location and capacity, so that corrective measures, if required, can
be promptly implemented. The sloping spur in the eastern arm of Kosi River, opposite
reduced distance 13 of CMC, protects the Right Bank of CMC against erosion. This spur
has been under attack by the river flow for the last few years, and it needs strengthening.
This should be urgently carried out.
22.   There is a critical need for telephone linkage between the Project Manager, his
senior engineers, and the operators at important control structures.   Prompt
communication between these points is required, at least during the monsoon months, to
allow effective collaboration and prompt transmission of instructions for a safe and
effective regulation of the river flow.
23.   Contractual Issues. Despite thorough and effective procurement arrangement
for the three ICB contracts under the project, there had been some delays during
implementation in taking prompt action on the liability defaults and payments. This was
partly due to the frequent transfers of the project managers and senior project staff, and
partly due to the inexperience of staff in matters related to international contract
management. Several of these issues are still outstanding as of the time of the ICR
miission.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
24.   An economic re-evaluation had been carried out for: (a) the free-standing SMHP
project, which includes SMIP Stages I and II; and (b) a time-slice of the larger Sunsari
Morang Irrigation Project (the whole Sunsari Morang Irrigation System) which includes
Stages I and IL SMHP, and further development in Stage Im with and without sunk costs
for Stages I and II. The additional benefit from hydropower, and savings in pre-project
desilting costs (O&M of main canal and network desilting), have been included in the
analysis. Based on the pre-project and the estimated "with project" cropping patterns,
cropping intensities and crop yields, and actual project expenditures, ERRs are estimated
at 20 percent for the free standing SMHP and including SMIP Stages I and II [(a) above],
and 20-49 percent for a time-slice of the larger Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project
including Stages I and II, SMHP and further development in Stage III [(b) above]. These
compare favorably with the appraisal estimates of 15 percent for scenario (a) and 14-49
percent for scenarios (b).
25.   The economic re-evaluation (ref. Appendix 2) indicates that, in every case, the
appraisal estimate and the ICR estimates are comparable as shown in Scenarios (a) and
(b). Major factors contributing to higher ERRs in the case of the ICR estimates are higher
crop intensities and crop yields. However, there is a slight decline in ERR when Stage ImI
is introduced. This does not mean that Stage In should not be implemented, as the Net
Present Value (NPV) of the project with Stage mI is still positive. The economic analysis
of SMHP should be viewed in conjunction with the results of the economic analysis



8
shown in the SMIP II ICR (ref. SMIP I[ ICR No. 15336, dated February 7,1996), and the
Project Appraisal Document of Nepal Irrigation Sector Project (ref. Report No. 17104-
NEP dated October 20, 1997).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
26.   The ICB civil works contract (SMHP/01), which consisted of construction of all
civil works of the new intake, culvert,, new pre-settling basin, existing intake and
improvement of the desilting basin, was signed on March 18, 1993. Construction, which
commenced on April 5, 1993, was scheduled to be completed after 32 months, i.e. by
December 4, 1995. However, due to the unexpected floods on May 17, 1995 and
November 10, 1995, works were delayed by six months and completed only on May 31,
1996.
27.   At appraisal, the local cost component was estimated at about 10 percent of
project cost (US$ 2.68 million) using the then prevailing parity rate of NRs.42.8 to a US
dollar. At the time of project completion, the actual parity rate was NRs. 57.0 to the US
dollar. Partly due to this depreciation of the Nepali Rupees against the US Dollar, and
partly due to project savings, resulting from the lower bid prices than estimated on three
ICB tenders, SDR 1.7 million (US$ 2.5 million equivalent) remained undisbursed and
was canceled.
Factors Subject to Government Control
28    During the five-year project implementation period, there had been a number of
changes to key project management staff, i.e. project manager and senior divisional
engineers. During this period there have been five project managers. Though in accord
with HMGN's transfer regulations for government staff, these frequent turnover greatly
affected project implementation during its early stages, and equally at the project wind-
up. These frequent changes also resulted in project management's inability to reach
decisions promptly on crucial issues affecting project implementation and systems
operation. The following cases are examples of implementation problems: (a) the
hydropower station which, to date, has not been fully handed-over to the Nepal Electricity
Authority (NEA) despite Cabinet's approval of the transfer; (b) the inadequate attention
of HMGN to the low level of water charges collection; and (c) to the project's failure to
appoint a qualified mechanical/electrical engineering staff to head the dredger team.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency's Control
29.   After two biddings, the ICB tender (SMHP/02) for manufacturing, supply,
installation, and supervision/training of operation and maintenance of the dredging
equipment was finally awarded on October 19, 1993, after about a year's delay, and



9
estimated to be completed by July 1994. At the outset a contractual dispute between the
Owner and the Supplier arose due to delay and default in delivery of goods caused by
labor conflict in the supplier's country, and mishandling and mishipment of goods.
Despite the fact that several issues concerning damages and contractual default liabilities
related to this tender have not been fully resolved, the final taking-over certificate was
signed on July 25, 1997. At the time of the ICR mission, a number of issues remain
unresolved which had affected the dredger operation training program and procurement
of spares attached to the contract.
30.   The ICB contract SMHP/03 for the supply and installation of hydropower plant
was awarded on February 25, 1993 to be completed by December 1995. Despite poor
coordination between different sub-contractors, the hydropower plant was commissioned
on July 11, 1996 and the defects liability certificate issued. Again a decision on
contractual liabilities for default is still pending. The training for operation of the
hydropower plant was continued till October 1997 but no NEA staff were in place to
takeover the plant. Despite the delays in these two ICB contracts, the project was put into
partial operation in June 1996, using initially power supply from the national grid at
Dharan Sub-station. The dredgers have been operational since kharif irrigation in June
1995. As stated in the preceding paragraph, these delays could have been avoided had
there been less frequent turnover over in key management staff, particularly the project
manager.
Project Costs and Financing
31.   Estimated total project cost at the time of appraisal is about US$ 35.7 million
(NRs. 1,586 million using a parity of US$1=NRs.42.8) out of which an estimated cost of
US$ 6.0 million was provided under SMIP II Credit (Cr. 1814-NEP). Estimated total
project cost at the time of Credit closing on December 31, 1997 is about US$30.6 million,
or about 86 percent of the SAR estimate, in US Dollars, out of which, about US$4.74
million was funded under SMIP II Credit. In Rupee terms, this is about NRs.1,595.0
million (in real terms) or about 101 percent of SAR estimate.
32.   Of the total IDA Credit of SDR19.0 million (US$28.0 million equivalent),
SDRI.7 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) was canceled just prior to credit closure. As
of May 31, 1998, a total of SDR16.0 million (US$23.19 million equivalent) was
disbursed, leaving an undisbursed balance of SDRI.3 million (US$1.74 million
equivalent) which will be canceled in due course.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   The infrastructure funded under the project achieved the main objectives of
providing silt-free irrigation water to SMIP during the rainy season through provision of
dredging facilities, and the elimination of the sand blockage at the intake during the dry
season, through the construction of the new intake. This was supported by the requisite



10
on-the-job training provided to Borrower's staff on dredger operation and maintenance,
continuously for two years, until the Credit closing date. The renewed partnership forged
between the farmers and the Irrigation Department (ID) and the Sunsari Morang Irrigation
Development Board (SMIDB) staff in implementing the principles of RWS, bodes well
for the sustainability of the project. So long as the Government continues to provide
funds for the adequate level of operation and maintenance of infrastructure installed
under this project, its sustainability is likely.
34.   Risks. SMHP faced technical and institutional risks common to large-scale public
irrigation investments in Nepal. As regards technical risks, water extraction structures
installed under the project is located in one of the world's largest rivers which has
enormous destructive power and in a geologically fragile zone of the Himalayas. The
risks of failure increases if project infrastructure regulations are not adhered to. Under
this project, these risks were minimized by following the advice of the POE, providing
the requisite training for project staff, continuous application of improved operational
practices, and staff continuity. On the institutional aspect, the risks were minimized
through on-the-job training to all operational staff and project beneficiaries for two years
after completion of construction. Mitigation activities, such as staff training, improved
O&M, are still ongoing and need to be continued. However, unless HMGN is willing to
provide incentive and motivation to trained staff working in the remote area such as the
site of Headworks, and to give priority for allocating adequate O&M funding required for
the headworks within its limited budget and manpower resources, the project's long-term
sustainability will be seriously jeopardized.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   The whole project concept was based on the technical advice of the Panel of
Experts (POE), commissioned by HMGN to study the sedimentation problem in the
SMIP. There were long delays by the Borrower in reaching a decision to adopt the design
principles, based on the POE's advice. Once the project got off to a start, the IDA
supervision team, through close monitoring at Headquarters, and frequent field visits,
helped steer the project to a successful completion.  However, despite the IDA
supervision team's advice to the Borrower to reach an amicable solution with the
contractors/suppliers on the ICB contractual dispute, a number of issues still remain
unresolved at the time of the ICR mission.
36.   The Bank's supervision missions were too lenient in the enforcement of legal
covenants. In particular, it allowed the Borrower to stretch out the timetable for
increasing water charges and no legal remedial measures were taken against defaulters.
Eventually, during the latter part of the project's final year, the rate of water charges was
increased, a delay of about twelve months. Frequent transfers of the key project staff
hampered the effectiveness of project management. However, there was no provision in
the legal documents that could have provided the Bank some leverage to invoke remedial
measures.



11
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   At the time of project preparation, Borrower's understanding of the project
concept, and the problems inherent in SMIP was sometimes confused, mainly due to
conflicting technical advice provided by different parties. Borrower's performance
during preparation, when crucial decisions regarding sedimentation control had to be
made, was tardy and uncertain. This shortcoming was later resolved by the additional
studies funded under the project, and through consultation with the POE, which caused at
least two years' delay in adoption of a viable technical solution.
38.   Most of the problems the project faced was primarily due to frequent turnover of
key project staff. Procurement issues that remained unsettled at the time of project
completion could be attributed partly to project management staff turnover. Delays in
audit reporting is mainly due to constant shifting of project accounts personnel.
However, despite these problems, and with the concerted efforts of the Borrower, the
consultants and ICB contractors, and close guidance by Bank staff, the project was
completed within the stipulated time, and the infrastructure funded under the project was
commissioned more than one year prior to Credit closure.
39.   The Borrower's consultants had closely estimated the cost of the project.
However, a number of specific items related to the hydropower station were not relevant
to the conditions prevailing at the project site, and needed to be revised at a later date.
40.   A detailed project completion report and project operation plan were prepared by
the Borrower and made available to the Bank in advance of the ICR mission, for its
review and comments. The ICR mission requested additional financial details which the
report lacked.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41    Overall, the project mostly achieved its objectives by the end of the five-year
project implementation period, and its outcome is assessed as satisfactory, based on the
physical performance of the project. The net present values of the irrigation
component of different scenarios of the project at discounted cash flows were all positive.
The infrastructure installed under the project now provides comparatively silt-free water
to SMIP all year round. The bottleneck at the old intake during the dry season had been
significantly eliminated. Training provided to local staff in dredger operation and
maintenance ensures the sustainability of the infrastructure, provided there is sustained
support of O&M by the Borrower, coupled with motivation of O&M staff to be posted in
the remote area where the project is located.
40.   Farmers now recognize the merits of RWS, and are exerting every effort to make
it work. This is a result of the untiring efforts of SMIP staff and consultants in providing



12
training and guidance to farmers and WUAs. This should be continued until the system is
well-rooted in the project area. Under the present condition, almost half of the area
remains to be developed. The Borrower should continue to sustain the momentum
achieved in the development of the command areas in Stages I and II to obtain the same
benefits for the remaining area of SMIP Im, otherwise the sustainability of the
achievements under this project will gradually diminish.
41.   The satisfactory outcome of the project is based on the assumption that benefits
will build up following completion of the project, and that farmers' collaboration in
O&M will be sustained. Events which could result in the decline in project sustainability
includes potential systems failure resulting from improper and inadequate maintenance,
due to lack of Borrower's commitment, and potential political intervention on the issue of
collection of water charges. Water charges collection should however be differentiated in
the fully developed (Stage I and II), partially developed (Stage Im) and the remaining
undeveloped areas.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
42.   The Borrower's POP and PCR of SMHP and those of SMIP II describe the
required O&M organization. They also spell out the resources requirement for the
system's O&M. The computerized water management model installed under the project,
if properly used, can enhance the system's efficiency. Currently the system is supplying
assured water for irrigation year-round which is comparatively silt-free. In order to
evaluate the future performance of the project, constant and close monitoring and
evaluation practices need to be instituted in the system. The monitoring system must be
efficient and transparent to the users and to the staff. Evaluation should be based on (a)
actual irrigated area in each season using irrigation boundary maps; (b) assessment of
water charges based on area irrigated; (c) amount of water charges collected and used for
O&M; and (d) agricultural production.  This monitoring needs a well-organized
institution with highly-motivated staff. Constraints on sustainability of monitoring are:
(a) budget commitment; (b) appreciation of monitoring by project management and staff;
and (c) improved management of the whole organization.
43.   Recorded water levels in the river at the new intake, during the low flow season,
are falling. Possible causes are the degradation of the river channel and/or an occurrence
of low hydrological cycle. Data at the new intake and upper gauging sites should be
analyzed to identify the causes and to forecast the future trends.
44.   The facilities for sediment monitoring of the project are inadequate and they need
to be urgently upgraded. Training of existing staff and recruitment of additional
manpower is required. The follow-up O&M arrangement for the dredger is not
satisfactory, especially in spares acquisition.



13
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.   Key lessons learned from the project are:
* for important infrastructure projects like SMHP, the arrangements for
procurement, and a management plan of ICB contracts, should be agreed and
finalized before credit effectiveness;
* organizational arrangements for the operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure installed under the project must be finalized and in place prior to
commencement of commissioning and take over;
* limiting turnover of key project personnel is critical when dealing with ICB
contracts to avoid disputes, penalties and delinquencies in contractual
obligations;
* the success of operation and sustainability of infrastructure projects depends
on physical soundness of structures, as well as a project's social and
organizational responsiveness to the concerns of all stakeholders;
* O&M arrangements should be in place and tested for at least one year before
the closure of the Credit;
* commitment of the Government to impose and implement service charges to
cover full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement is important; and
* transparency to beneficiaries of O&M expenditures is important to win their
confidence in the maintenance of the system.



14
PART IL STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                       9             9            r                )
Sector policies                                                  m 7  F       F
Financial objectives                 F] F                       E  
Institutional development             z           E             E             E
Physical objectives                  E[3
Poverty reduction                                 7  
Gender issues                                                                 F71
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                                                       E 
Public sector management                          F              2
Private sector development                                                    L]
Other (Technical Issues)             E                           m            [ii
B. Project sustainabilitv           Likely        Unlikely    Uncertain
Highlv
C. Bank performance              satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                     2           E             r
Preparation assistance                                        m 
Appraisal                                      ED
Supervision                        E77                       [



15
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                                    L 
hnplementation                    7            E            E
Covenant compliance               2            E 1
Operation (if applicable)                     E  Ja
Highly                                      High1y
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactor    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactor



16    Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title               Purpose                 Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. Birganj Irrigation Project  Complete & upgrade irrigation &    1973          Completed in 1981.
(Narayani Zone) Cr. 373-NEP    drainage for 16.300 ha of the                    PPAR No. 4267
Narayani Irrigation System and to                 1982
provide groundwater irrigation to
2,700 ha north of the system
2. First Rural Development   To improve small-scale irrigation    1976          Completcd in
Project Cr. 617-NEP          schemes in the hills and develop a                 December 1983
high lift scheme on about 1900 ha
in Nuwakot
3. Bhairawa-Lumbini          To provide 64 deep tubewell     1976               Completed in
Groundwater I Project Cr. 654-   systems serving 7,600 ha                       March 1983.
NEP                                                                             PPAR 1984
4. Narayani Zone Irrigation  Complete & upgrade irrigation &    1978            Completed in
Development Stage II Project    drainage for 12,800 ha of the                   March 1987
Cr. 856-NEP                  Narayani Irrigation System and to
provide groundwater irrigation to
800 ha north of the system
5. Sunsari Morang Irrigation I   To complete and upgrade the first   1978       Completed in June
Project Cr. 812-NEP           12,000 ha of the Sunsari Morang                   1987
Irrigation System
6. Second Rural Development   To improve small-scale irrigation    1979         Completed in 1987
Project Cr. 939-NEP          schemes in the Mahakali Zone
7. Mahakali Irrigation Project    To rehabilitate and upgrade  1981             Completed in
Stage I Cr. 1055-NEP         existing irrigation system for 3.400               December 1988
ha and extend irrigation to 3,200
8. Bhairawa-Lumbini          To complete unfinished Stage 1  1983               Compicted in
Groundwater Irrigation Stage If   wells and construct new wells for             October 1990
Cr. 1316-NEP                 7,000 ha
9. Narayani Irrigation III   To complete and upgrade another   1986             Completed in june
Project Cr. 1715-NEP         8,700 ha of the Narayani Irrigation                 1995
System
10. Third Rural Development    Construction of 28 small irrigation   1986       Complcted in
Project Cr. 1727-NEP         schemes and rehabilitation of 18                   August 1994
schemes in Rasuwa and Nuwakot
11. Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11  To improve the design and  1987              Completed in May
Project Cr. 1814-NEP         operation of the Sunsari Morang                    1994
Irrigation System (Phase II),
including provision of desilting
facilities & imrpoved O&M.
12. Agricultural Research and    To strengthen the management and   1997        Ongoing
Extension project Cr. 2977-NEP   capacity of agricultural research
and extension services bv
developing client-oriented,
location specific adaptive
agricultural technology; and
improving technology delivery
system.
13. Irrigation Sector Project  To finance farmer-managed     1997               Ongoing
irrigation schemes in the hills and
the terai and management transfer
of public irrigation schemes in
Sunsari Morang Irrigation System
Phase III
Following Operations:
I. Terai Groundwater Project    To develop groundwater irrigation   1999
in the Bara and Parsa Districts of
the Terai



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                                                       l
Appraisal                                                    September 16-29, 1991
Negotiations                                                 September 8-11, 1992
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)
Board Presentation                                           November 5, 1992
Signing                                                      December 16, 1992
Effectiveness                                                January 22, 1993
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                        NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                               NA
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if                       NA
applicable)
Project Completion                        June 30, 1997      June 30, 1997
Credit Closing                            December 31, 1997  December 31, 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Appraisal Estimate              7.00   15.00 25.00 27.00 28.00 29.00 1/
Actual                          1.51   5.85  11.20  17.75 21.59 23.19 2/
Actual as % of Estimate         22    39    45    66    77    80
Date of Final Disbursement     tbd
1/ On December 12, 1997, SDR1.7 million (US$2.3 million equivalent) was cancelled.
2/ Actual disbursed through May 31, 1998. Closing of books is in process.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Key Implementation                                 Appraisal     Actual           Percentage
Indicators in SAR/                                 Estimate      Completed        Completion
President's Reporl                Units            (Quantity)    (Quantity)          (%)
Work Items
Lot I-Civil Works
E/W Excavation                    m3                      461006         700000      152'    1/
Fill/Backfill                     cu.m                     91585         127000      139
Reinforcement                     mt                       3434.5          3800      111
Form Work                         sq.m                     71920          91000      127
Stone masonry/Pitching            cu.m                     93035          81500       88
Gabion works                      cu.m                      3682          16000      435      2/
Structural Steel                  mt                         298            440      148      3/
Diaphragm wall                    sq.m                      4211            913       22      4/
Roadwork (gravel)                 sq.m                      9290          50000      538      5/
(excluding Jhumka road)
GT Pipe                           rm                        4700           3400      72
Lot 11-Supply and Installation
of Dredging Equipment             nos.                          2             2      100
Lot MII-
A. Supply and Installation of
Hydropower Plant Turbine       nos.                          2             2      100
Speed Increaser                   nos.                          2             2      100
Fly wheel                         nos.                          2             2      100
Wicket gates                      nos.                          2             2      100
Trash Rack                        nos.                          4             4      100
Stop logs                         nos                           8             8      100
B. Electrical Equipment
Generator                         nos.                          2             2      100
HV Distribution
Switch Board                      nos.                          1             1      100
Transformer                       nos.                          2             2      100
Black Start
Generator                         nos.                          1             1      100
Circuit Breaker                   nos.                          1             1      100
Gantry Type
Lifting Portal                    nos.                          1             1      100
Regulator Gates                   nos.                          2             2      100
Workshop                          lot                           1             1      100
Variances due to:
1/ Shifting of position of new intake by six meters towards riverside resulting in additional works i.e.
excavation of eastern channel, widening of CMC, etc.
2/ Additonal works, e.i. strengthening in some areas, river training works, slope protection along culvert.
3/ Extra works, i.e. stop lock arrangements, modification of gates.
4/ Change in design to reflect actual condition.
5/ Actuals include Chatra/Jhumka service road.



19
Table 6: Indicators for Project Operation
Percentage
Actual or      Completion
Key Operating Indicators in SAR     Unit   SAR Estimate      ICR Estimate        (%)
1. Sediment trapped in desilting basin   000 m3       380              332              87
2. Mucking of sediment by dredgers      000 m3/pa     480              241              50
3. Water intake in monsoon at new headwork    m3/sec   60         36.22 (ave. 1997)     60
4. Water intake in dry season            m3/sec                   21.05 (ave. 1996)
5. Average sediment concentration at RD32  ppm                          651
6. Hydropower generated:
- total                                 kwhr    12,500,000         304,500            2
- used by dredgers                      kwhr     2,500,000         304,500            12



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined      Status         Impact of Study
1. Hydraulic Model    To design headworks  Complete           New headworks
Testing 1/          (new intake)                              constructed on basis
of this study.
2. Benefit Evaluation   To assess performance    Complete     Lessons learned to
of SMIP Il 1/       of project                                be applied to SMNPl
m I
3. Study on Irrigated   To determine difference   Complete    Measures to
and Rainfed Wheat in  in yield and recommend                  improve water
SMIP 2/             intervention                              management
included in SMIP III
4. Study on Irrigated   To understand socio-  Complete        Recommendations
Production in Stages I  economic features of                  for the short- and
and 11 3/           faming community and                      long-term applied to
major problems related                    pilot area of SMIP
to crop production                       mII
5. Study on         To determine           Complete           The study provided
suspended materials   effectiveness of SMHP                   positive indication
in Koshi Waters and   system performance and                  of effectiveness of
their ingress in Chatra  its design assumptions               SMHP as designed
Main Canal 4/
1/ Funded under SMHP Credit.
2/ Undertaken by project staff at no cost to project.
3/ Jointly undertaken by SMIP Staff and Regional Agricultural Development Office.
4/ Funded by consultant firm NEDECO.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
US$ million                            US$ million
Local  Foreign   Total     Breakdown:      Local  Foreign    Total      Breakdown:
Item            Costs   Costs   Costs  SMIP II   SMHP   Costs   Costs        Costs  SMIP II   SMHP
Intake                      0.13     1.23    1.36    0.00      1.36    0.54    1.23       1.77    0.00      1.77
Culvert 1/                  0.64    5.76      6.4    1.43      4.97     1.28    2.87      4.15              4.15
Pre-Settling Basin          0.39    3.53    3.92    0.00       3.92    1.41    3.19       4.60    0.00      4.60
Main Settling Basin 1/      0.09    0.85    0.94    0.77       0.17    0.15    0.33       0.48              0.48
Dredging Equipment          0.17    3.27    3.44    3.00       0.44    0.45    2.21       2.66    2.35      0.31
TA/Engineering/Training     0.15    2.01    2.16    0.50       1.66    0.33    2.45       2.78    0.95      1.83
Power Supply                0.34    5.78    6.12    0.30       5.82    0.72    4.48       5.20    0.00      5.20
Operation & Maintenance     0.02    0.21    0.23    0.00       0.23    0.02    0.26       0.28    0.00      0.28
Gen/Misc/Mobilization       0.45    4.08    4.53    0.00       4.53    2.13    4.89       7.02    0.00      7.02
Unallocated                 0.22    1.96    2.18    0.00       2.18    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00
Total Base Costs            2.6   28.68   31.28    6.00      25.28    7.02   21.91     28.93    3.30 0   25.63
Physical Contingencies 2/   0.25      2.5    2.75    0.00      2.75    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00
Price Contingencies 2/      0.19     1.46    1.65    0.00      1.65    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00
Total Project Costs        3.04   32.64   35.68    6.00      29.68    7.02   21.91     28.93    3.30      25.63
Land Acquisition Cost                                                   0.30    0.00      0.30    0.00      0.30
Administrative Cost                                                     0.15    0.00      0.15    0.00      0.15
Overhead Cost                                                           0.21    0.00      0.21    0.00      0.21
Grand Total Cost                                                       7.67   21.91     29.58    3.30     26.29
1/ Breakdown between SMIP nI and SMHP yet to be verified.
2/ Physical and price contingencies included in the actual base costs above.



22
Table 8b: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Local    Foreign   Total               Local    Foreign   Total
Source                 Costs     Costs    Costs                Costs    Costs     Costs
IDA                                 1.00     27.00    28.00                4.79     21.91     26.70
Domestic Contribution               1.68      0.00      1.68               2.89      0.00      2.89
Total                             2.68     27.00     29.68                7.67     21.91     29.58



23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate        ICR Estimate
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) (%):
Scenario I: Stages I+II+SMHP                                    15.00                   20.30
Scenario II: Stages I+II+SMHP+III                               14.00                   19.90
Scenario III: Stages I (sunk)+II+SMHP                           22.00                    42?
Scenario IV: Stages I+II(sunk)+SMHP                             49.00                   49.5?
Scenario V: Stages I+HI (sunk)+II+SMHP                          20.00                   40.2?
Scenario VI: Stages I+11I (sunk)+SMHP+III                       32.00                   47.10
Net Present Values (NPVs) (NRs. million)
Scenario I: Stages I+Il+SMHP                                                           1636.50
Scenario II: Stages I+II+SMHP+lI                                                       1647.10
Scenario III: Stages I (sunk)+II+SMHP                                                  1937.20
Scenario IV: Stages I+II(sunk)+SMHP                                                    1953.60
Scenario V: Stages I+III (sunk)+II+SMHP                                                1948.60
Scenario VI: Stages I+II (sunk)+SMHP+III                                               1965.00
Underlying Assumptions
Project Life                                                   30 years                40 years
Standard Conversion Factor                                      0.90                     0.90
Unskilled Labor Value-Shadow Wage Rate                          0.75                     0.90
Financial Wage Rate (NRs.)                                      35.00                   55.00



Table 10. Status of Legil Covenants
Project ID: NP-PE-10406 - SUNSARI NIORANG IIEADWORKS
original      Revised
Covenant              rtifll       *ultill
Clsse(sl   Status      Date         Dat.      Description ot Covenant                                  Coments
Agreement: IDA Credit Number: IDA  -2I ^Q
Text Reference: Sec. 3.01 (a)
05,03         C       01/01/1993                Carry out the project with due diligence and             Construction completed. In compliance.
etticiency in contormity with appropriate
engineering, agricultural and administrative
practices and provide promptly funds, tacilities.
and other re- sources required.
Text Reference: Section 4.01(b)
01            C                                 Furnish annual audit reports not later than 12           In compliance.
months after the end of each tiscal year.
Text Reference: Section 4.2
10            C       03/31/1993                Commence to implement a plan satisfactory to the    Agreed plan has been carried out on all developed
Association to Improve water management its tbie        areas of the system.
Project.
Text Reference: Section 4.3
OS            C       03/31/1993                Cause SMIDS to maintain, with qualifications and    Both consultants were employed under themain
experience satisfactory to the Association, a           project consultant contract till June 1997. The
senior water management expert and a senior             recent mission has reqtuested to extend their
agriculturist,                                          services till to the end of  juns 1997
Text Reference: Section 4. 
11           CD       12/31/1l91                (a) establish with membership, responsibilities L   Ia) WUCC has been established at the project
power satisfactory to the Association, a Water          central management level; (bi One tepresentetive
Useis  Group consultative committee (iUCCI to tihe   has been selected trom SuIsaIi District as the
Project Management  lb) Isiclude at least 2             developed areas of Stages I and II tall under the
representatives of Water Users' Groups elected in   Sunsari District only
accordance with the procedures satisfactory to the
Association. as member of SMIDb.
C      Complied witb
CD     Compliance after Delay
NC     Not Complied with
SOON ComplJance Sxpected In R !asonably Short T.xe
CP     Complied with Partially
MmD    Not ret Due



Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Form 590 Date: 07/21/1997
Project ID: NP-PE-10406 - SUNSARI MORANG HEADWORKS
Original      ReDvied
Covn nt                            Fulfill
Cl.a(Bl)   Statu.      Date         Data      Description of Covenant                                 comm_onts
Text Reference: Section 4.5
13,05        CD       12/31/1993                (a) Furnish to the Association for approval a plan  (a) turnover of all tertiary networks to WUGs of
for the transfer of responsibility for operation &  Stage I and Stage II areas completed after
maintenance of distribution canals within a WUG's   necessary rehabilitation works; (b) silt free
area lb) there atter implement such plan in WUGOs    water has been supplied since monsoon of 1996 to
area as soon as it has been determined in               all areas.
accordance w/criteria satisfactory to the
Association that such areas receive adequate
supplies of silt-free water.
Text Reference: Section 4.5
02            CP                   03/31/1997  Shall charge & collect, in Stage I & II areas            Water charges have been collected in the developed
determined in accordance with criteria                  areas of Stage II and a;so started collection in
satisfactory to the Association to have received    the Stage I area, but yet to introduce in the
adequate supplies of silt-free irrigation water, a  Stage III areas.  Submission of a program for the
rate sufficient to cover the costs ot operation         collection in the remaining areas together with
maintenance of the distribution canals above the    the system of penalty to those defaulters has beeni
sinor block, together with a pro-rats share of the  for IDA review. Program S.ubmitted along with
costs of OM of the main & distribution oaiials         issuance of a Government Order to Increase water
charges rate by 100* starting from FY 1997/98                L
which commenced on July 16. 1997.
Statu's:
c    - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - Complied with Partially
fYD  - Not Yet nue



,Lable iU.   Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Class
1 Accounts/audit
2  Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3  Flow and utilization of Project funds
4  Counterpart funding
S  Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6  Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
8  Indigenous people
9  Monitoring, review and reporting
10  Implementation
11  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13  Other



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title     | Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. Water charges                        Pricing policy did not achieve full cost recovery;
issue is being tackled under the NISP (Credit
3009-NEP)



28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned         Revised           Actual
Project Cycle                                                                 I
Weeks   US$(000) Weeks  US$(000)  Weeks   US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal        7.6     20.5     7.6      20.5     7.6       20.5
Appraisal-Negotiations         24.7     65.2    24.7      65.2    24.7       65.2
Negotiations through Board     14.4     41.2    14.4      41.2    14.4       41.2
Approval                                                                         l
Supervision                    73.9    221.6    60.8    201.4    65.0       188.6
Completion                      5.0     17.1     8.2      22.6     7.4       20.9
TOTAL                        125.6    365.5   115.7    350.9   119.1       336.4
04/09/98



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized     Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of         Month/       of         Days in       Staff Skills      tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year      Persons       Field        Represented       Status        Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal             9-10/91     6           13           Eng(3),Env,Ag,
Eco
Post Appraisal        3-4192      1          7             Eng
Supervision 1         11/92       1          4             Eng                    2              2              T
Supervision 2         3/93        3          3             Eng,Prog,Agr           2              2              T
Supervision 3         9-10/93     6          5             Eng(3),Ag(2),          2              1
Soc
Supervision 4         2/94        3          6             Eng,Ag(2)              2              1
Supervision 5         5/94        7          7             Eng(2)
Technical Review
Supervision 6         6/94        2          3             Eng(2)                 S             HS
Supervision 7          11-12/94    3         5             Eng(3)                 S             HS              T
Supervision 8         7195        2          7             Eng(2)                 S             HS              T
Supervision 9          11/95      2          3             Eng(2)                 D             HS              T
Supervision 10        3/96        3          2             Eng(2),Fin             S              S
Supervision 11        6/96        1          6             Eng
Tecnical Review
Supervision 12         12/96      4          7             Eng(2), Eco,Ag         S             HS
Supervision 13 SOE     12/96      4          2             Fin,Eng
Review
Supervision 14        6/97        4          4             Eng(3),Ag              S              S
SupervYCompletion      11/97      4          8             Eng,Ag,Eco,Fm          S              S
Completion             1/98       1          7             Eng



30                                  Appendix 1
Nepal
Sunsari-Morang Headworks Project (Cr. 2340-NEP)
Supervision/Implementation Completion Reporting Mission
November 1997
Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs./Mme. 0. Myint, T. Estoque, R.C. Mishra (Bank)
and T. Lohavisavapanich (FAO/CP) visited the project from November 11-16, 1997 to
supervise and prepare an implementation completion report (ICR) on the above project. This
Aide Memoire is based on the findings of the mission. During its visit the mission held
discussions with staff from the Department of Irrigation (DOI), the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation
Project (SMIP), project consultants, farmers and other agencies and individuals concerned
with the project, and reviewed project documentation, and other relevant studies and reports.
The Project Completion Report dated September 1997 prepared by the Consultants
(NEDECO) and SMIP, the Project Operation Plan dated October 1997, and the Semi-Annual
Progress Report (July-December, 1997) prepared by SMIP were major sources of information
for the ICR. The mission's preliminary findings were discussed with the Joint Secretary,
Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR).
2.     The Aide Memoire was discussed at a wrap-up meeting at DOI on November 18,
1997, attended by representatives from the National Planning Commission, the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), MOWR, Department of Agriculture, DOI and the concerned Project Manager
and staff. Amendments agreed at the meeting have been duly incorporated. The findings of
the mission is subject to the approval of the Bank management. The mission wishes to thank
the Director-General, DOI, the Project Manager (PM) and staff of SMIP, and staff of the
other concerned agencies, for their cooperation, and assistance.
The Projct
3.     The Sunsari Morang Irrigation System is the largest public irrigation system  in the
Eastern Region of Nepal. The sub-project diverts water from the Kosi River and commands a
net irrigable area of about 68,000 ha. The Sunsari Morang Irrigation System was started in 1964
by the Government of India (GOI) in accord with the Kosi Sub-project Agreement of 1954
between the GOI and the HMGNI. After trial operations starting in 1970, the sub-project works
were handed over to the HMGN in 1975. The original distribution system terminated at turnouts
serving areas of over 200 ha (minor canals) and typically over 100 farmers. The lack of minor
distribution networks below these turnouts of 200 ha meant that the system was inefficient and
could not irrigate the whole command area. Water distribution was unreliable and inequitable.
This bilateral agreement dated April 25, 1954, as amended on December 19, 1966, states that "HMGN shall have every right to withdraw for
irripabon and for other purposes in Nepal water from the Kosi River and from the Sun-Kosi River or within the Kosi Basin from any other
tributaries of the Kosi River as may be required from time to tme. The Union shall have the right to regulate aD the balance in the Kosi
River at the barrage site thus available from time to time and to generate power in the Eastern Canal".



31
From inception, the project faced a massive siltation problem because the Kosi River carries a
heavy load of sediment during the flood season. Hence, significant amounts of sediment settled
in the newly opened canal systems and reduced their water carrying capacities to almost half in
an irrigation season. The rate of siltation outpaced cleaning of watercourses by farmers. As a
result of these deficiencies, the sub-project did not fulfill its objectives and in 1975, HMGN
requested IDA assistance to overcome these shortcomings.
4.    IDA involvement in the sub-project was divided into stages: Completed satisfactorily
in 1987, Stage I, known as SMIP-I, was approved in 1978 and provided US$30 million to
rehabilitate and complete minor irrigation networks (known as command area development -
CAD) on 9,750 ha. Later in 1987, IDA approved a second stage (SMIP II) in the amount of
US$40 million for CAD on a further 16,700 ha, which was completed satisfactorily in 1995.
Both of these credits provided infrastructure to eliminate the siltation problem. However,
measures funded under the project were not sufficient and effective. In early 1991, while
SMIP-II was under implementation, HMGN obtained the advice of an international Panel of
Experts (POE) to deal with the siltation problem. The POE recommended that the sub-project
be modified by: (a) moving the intake structure 1,300 m upstream of the existing intake site;
(b) constructing a larger capacity desilting basin; (c) utilizing dredgers to remove silt from the
desilting basin and; (d) constructing a micro-hydro unit in the headreach of the main canal to
provide power for the dredger operations.
5.    An IDA credit of US$28.0 million for the Sunsari Morang Headworks Sub-project
(SMHP- Cr.2430) to provide funds for additional works as described in para 4 above to deal
with the siltation problem was approved in August 1992 and the Credit Agreement was signed
on December 16, 1992. The project consists of the following parts:
(i)    Construction of a new intake in the Chatra Gorge upstream from the existing intake;
(ii)   Construction of a culvert to carry water from the new intake to a pre-settling basin;
(iii)   Construction of a new presettling basin upstream from the existing intake;
(iv)   Modification of the existing intake to make it more efficient together with a channel to
an enlarged desilting basin;
(v)   Improvement and enlargement of the desilting basin completed under the Sunsari
Morang Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1814-NEP);
(vi)  Provision of dredging facilities for removal of silt from the enlarged desilting basin;
(vii)  Construction of a small power plant for the dredging facilities;
(viii) Management, operation and maintenance, and training for running the dredging
facilities; and
(ix)   Consultants Services for construction supervision and training.



32
6.    The total project cost of US$ 29.68 million was to be financed with the help of an IDA
credit of SDR 19.0 million (US$ 28.0 million equivalent). In compliance with the condition
for Board presentation, all ICB tenders were called in mid 1992 and the bid results were ready
in September 1992. The Credit became effective on January 2, 1993.
Mission's Findings
7.    Project Implementation. The implementation of the project was started in 1993 after
selections and awards of the following three ICB contractors for construction of the civil
works [items (i) to (v)], installation of dredging equipment (item vi), and installation of
Hydropower Station facilities (item vii).
(i)   The ICB civil works contract SMHP/01 was signed on March 18, 1993 and works
were officially started in April 5, 1993 for a total amount equivalent to NRs. 713,476,459 to
be completed in 32 months i.e. by December 4, 1995. The works were satisfactorily
completed in May 31, 1996, six months behind the original stipulated time. The delay was
mainly due to unexpected early flood on May 17, 1995 and a freak flood in November 10,
1995 which were considered to be unusual. The extension was officially approved by the
Borrower with the recommendation of the project consultants.
(ii)   All bids for the ICB contract, SMHP/02 covering the manufacturing, supply,
installation, and supervision of operation and maintenance of the dredging equipment were
rejected in the first instance due to differences of opinion between the Project Management
and the Consultant on the evaluation results necessitating a call for rebidding. The contract
which would otherwise have been awarded in end 1992 was awarded on October 19, 1993, for
an amount of FF 17,108,236, to be completed by July 1994. However a contractual dispute
between the HMGN and the supplier arose due to delay in delivery of goods. The delay was
due to labor conflict in the supplier's country, mishipment of goods, and handling damages of
the floating pipes for the dredger. Despite reservations mostly relating to damages and
defaults during the handing over and subsequent operation, the final taking over certificate
was signed on July 25, 1997. However, a decision has to be made on the contractual
liabilities for defaults and damages during the contract.
(iii) The ICB contract, SMHP/03 for the Supply and Installation of Hydro Power Plant was
awarded on February 25, 1993 for an amount equivalent to NRs. 191,277,031 to be completed
by December 1995.  Despite poor coordination between different sub-contractors the
hydropower plant was commissioned on July 11, 1996 and the defects liability certificate
issued. However, a decision has to be made on the contractual liabilities for defaults. The
training for operation of the hydropower plant was continued till October 1997.
8.   Inspite of all these delays in each separate ICB contracts, the project was put into
partial operation in June 1996, using initially power supply from the national grid at Dharan
Sub-station. The dredgers have been operational since kharif irrigation in June 1995.
9.    Completion. The following items of ICB contract works envisaged in the staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) of SMHP have been completed satisfactorily before the Credit
closing date of December 31, 1997. The quality of works and the ICB contractors'
performance are also satisfactory in general.



33
a)    A new intake in the Chatra Gorge some 1,300 m upstream from the existing
intake structure. The new intake, completed in June 1996, has twelve openings
with steel stop logs which are to be adjustable for the intake sill level to
minimize the entry of coarse sediment; 12 rows of reinforced concrete vanes
installed by piling in the bed of the Kosi river infront of the new intake.
b)    A reinforced concrete culvert to carry water from the new intake to a pre-
settling basin. The culvert consists of three barrels each of 3.5 m by 4.5 m
and a total length of 1,000 m.
c)    A new stone masonry presettling basin 300 m long, and a bottom width of 20 m
upstream from the existing intake. The presettling basin is installed with a
flushing sluice having four bays, each with 4 m by 4 m.
d)    Modification of the existing intake to make it more efficient and construction
of a channel to an enlarged desilting basin.
e)    Improvement and enlargement of the desilting basin completed under the Sunsari
Morang Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1814-NEP). A larger desilting basin of 60
meter wide and 990 meter long was completed since May 1992. Along the
river side of the basin, five jetties have been constructed as well as 110
concrete mooring poles around the basin to facilitate the dredging operation. A
dry dock was built at the downstream. (Two cutter-section dredgers of 14.0
m3/hr capiy driven by electricity have been procured under the SMIP II
Credit. The dredgers have been in operation since the 1995 monsoon irrigation
season).
f)   Installation of a small hydro power plant with two turbines each of rated power
1.627 kW and a designed speed of 165 r.p.m at a designed discharged of 33.63
m3/sec and a designed head of 5.38 m for the dredging facilities. The generator is
a synchronous 3-phase machine with a rated output of 1.752 KVA, 11 KV and
50 Hz with speed of 750 r.p.m.
g)    Hands-on training of local and private workshop personnel by an expatriate staff
for a total of 19 manmonths on management and operation and maintenance of
the dredging facilities for a duration of two years after the installation of the
dredgers.
h)    Technical Support and Training (design. construction, supervision and water
managem=n).  The project utilized 92.8 mm of expatriate consultants and
223.23 mm of local consultants hired under an international consulting firm
throughout the implementation period. (An additional service of 44.1 mm of
expatriate consultants and 35.4 mm of local consultants were used for the
design of new headworks using SMIP-II Credit).
10.   Project Cost. The estimated total cost of the project at appraisal is about US$35.7
million (NRs. 1,586 million using a parity of 1 US$=NRs.44.42). The actual expenditure for



34
SMHP at the time of credit closing on December 31, 1997 is estimated to be about US$30.60
million or about 86% of the SAR estimate in US dollar, but in Nepalese Rupees it is about
Nrs.1,595.0 million (real terms) or about 101% of the SAR estimate) despite the devaluation
in the rate of exchange between the Nepalese Rupee and US dollar in the course of project
implementation (US$l= NRs.42.8 in 1987/88 to NRs.57.0 in 1997/98). As of end of October
1997, SDR15.4 million (US$23.6 million equivalent) have been disbursed. It is expected that
by the closing date of December 31, 1997, a total of about US$25.5 million of the credit
would be disbursed. About SDR1.8 million (US$2.5million equivalent) will remain
undisbursed and will be cancelled.
Project Benefits
11.   Project Impact. The larger desilting basin constructed in mid 1992 under the SMIP-II
has proved successful. About 65-70 percent of the incoming sediment to the system has been
trapped in the desilting basin in early part of monsoon kharif irrigation. On average, over
250,000 m3 of deposited sediment was cleared by the two dredgers installed in the basins
since June 1995. This was the positive indication of the effectiveness of desilting basin
provided. Reduction of sediment ingress to the main canal system enables year-round
irrigation with the designed discharge resulting in the increased cropping intensity.
12.   The potential benefits are incremental agricultural production, employment, farm
incomes and hydropower. Incremental agricultural benefits would accrue mainly from the
assured and improved irrigation water supply and the reduced sediment in Stages I and II and
some of the Stage III areas upon the completion of the headworks, intake and the silt settling
basins and desilting. Additional benefits would accrue from the remodelling of the existing
irrigation systems in Stage I area, and the rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities and
development of the distribution systems in Stage III area. The cropping intensities increased
substantially from 131% in the pre-project in 90/91 to 171%-174% in Stages I and II and 145%
in Stage III in 96/97.
13.   The economic re-evaluation had been carried out for: (i) SMHP self-contained project,
which now includes stages I and II and SMHP; and (ii) a time slice of a larger Sunsari Morang
Irrigation Project (whole SMIP), which includes Stages I and II and SMHP, plus a further
development in Stage III. Additional benefits of hydropower and savings in pre-project
desilting costs have been included in the analysis. Based on the Pre-project and the estimated
With Project cropping patterns, intensities and yields and actual project expenditures, ERRs for
the self-contained SMHP and whole SMIP are preliminarily estimated at 18% and 19%
compared with the appraisal estimates of 15% and 14% respectively.
Borrower Performance
14.   The Borrower made considerable efforts to implement the project with diligence and
efficiency but, during preparation, the project suffered some setbacks due to delays in
mobilization of ICB contractors. Additionally, in the course of implementation, Lot 1 Civil
Works contract was delayed by at least six months due to unusual early and late floods during
the construction season. In the case of Lot 2 contractual default due to mishipment and
mishandling of the goods, deliver of the dredger was delayed by about nine months. The
default in the design of the water control gate systems, a number of mishaps occurred



35
necessitating rectification of the problem. Audit reports were often late but not to the stage of
credit suspension. The Borrower's consultant had closely estimated the cost of the three ICB
contract as well as satisfactorily pursued the supervision and quality control during
supervision. Inspite of frequent turn-over of the project manager, with the concerted effort of
the Borrower, the consultants, and the ICB contractors, the project was completed within the
stipulated time and full operation of the project started one year ahead of the credit closure..
A detailed Project Completion Report and Project Operation Plans (POPs) were prepared and
made available to the mission in advance, for the review and remarks. The POPs were revised
taking account of comments made by IDA.
Bank Performance
15.   The whole project concept was based on the technical advice and suggestions of IDA
at the time of project preparation. There was a long delay by the Borrower in reaching a
decision for adopting the principles of design under the project. However, IDA encouraged
the Borrower to study the problem timely, change the design and implement the project
accordingly. At the time of implementation, IDA provided frequent and effective supervision.
Project Sustainability
16.   Water Availability. The project resolved the heavy sediment concentration problem
in the monsoon and difficult intake problem in the dry season by providing a new intake and
sediment exclusion facility. The sediment exclusion by electro-mechanical problem is also
self-contained in the project, by providing a small hydropower station in the main canal. The
headworks project had considered the necessary on-the-job training to the Borrower's staff for
two years on items considered novel to the staff, i.e. dredger operation and maintenance. The
importance of proper operation and maintenance was recognized. Providing the mechanical
and electrical equipment to ensure the year-round water supplies in a sustained manner, it
would require a proper level of operation and maintenance by the Borrower. Nevertheless a
risk still exists if sufficient attention is not paid to the operation of the systems. Additionally,
enough funds for proper maintenance should be given to the infrastructure installed in the
system.
17.   At full operation of SMHP starting in May 1996, the system achieved an assured year-
round supply of water at designed capacity. The maximum design discharge of the Chatra
Main Canal (CMC) is 45.3 cumecs. But the new intake now has a capacity to supply up to
60.0 cumecs at all times of the year which will allow a significant increase in the cropping
pattern during the dry season, as well as assure the monsoon supplemental irrigation. It is,
however, not necessary that the peak flow be supplied at all times and it is reasonable for the
CMC to be closed from time to time (November and April) for maintenance and repair. The
mission is pleased to note that a computerized water management model was recently
established under the guidance of SMHP consultants, and project staff were trained to operate
the model effectively. However, the ICR mission observed that the use of the model is still
sub-optimal or not fully effective. The mission recommends that the operation of the model be
revived and the required data collection be started at least continuously for a number of years
to cover the one hydrologic cycle.



36
18.   Budget for O&M.  According to the SAR, the annual requirement of SMHP
maintenance budget is in the order of NRs.1.7 million per year in 1995/96 prices. If the
mechanical spares and maintenance of dredgers and microhydro stations are included, then the
annual maintenance costs could be in the order of NRs.5.0 million per year. The Project
Operation Plan (POP) prepared by SMIDP assumes an annual maintenance budget of NRs.
45.23 million in 1995/96 (NRs 769/ha for 58800 ha of Stages I, II and III) diminishing
steadily to NRs. 30.02 million in 1999/2000 (NRs. 510/ha) including the maintenance budget
required for SMHP. However, the actual budget alloted from 1995/96 to date inclusive of
SMHP maintenance was always short of the budget requirement agreed in the POP. It is
essential to have sufficient budget for SMHP which is only 11% of the total budget
reqirement. Therefore, there is very high risk that unless the proposed budget for O&M and
repairs is alloted and the system is adequately maintained, the whole SMIP irrigation system
will be in jeopardy. The mission recommends that O&M resources be made available and
priority be given to the developed areas in Stages I and II, and SMHP, where investment on
infrastructure development has been already made.
19.   Water Management. Rotational Water Supply (RWS) was applied in the SMIP.
Though there were some conflicts on turns and time-share, RWS worked in general and
farmers were generally satisfied with the water supplied equitably which they never enjoyed
in the past. The system is now supplied with sediment-free water so that in terms of proper
water management the system now is equipped with full facility. The farmers have started
recognizing the importance of RWS and are cooperating in water management gradually.
The supply of irrigation water by constructing field channels, especially in dry season rabi
irrigation, has been increasing. At present more than 50 percent of field channels exist in the
system. The mission therefore recommends that since the new headworks is now operating
satisfactorily, the Project Management should link the crop diversification in the suitable
irrigated area of the project with the recently approved Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (AREP) to demonstrate crop diversification to farmers, including pre-monsoon
croppings.
20.   The project is now receiving considerably sediment-free water so that the canal system
is more or less sustainable.  Therefore systematic monitoring of the conveyance and
distribution efficiencies by actual measurements can now be undertaken regularly in order to
avoid undesirable water dispute at the field level. The mission found that most of the
watermarks and measurement guide in water level recording gauges are fading away due to
natural deterioration. It is very important for maintenance staff and water users to see the
system properly operating as designed and that the full supply level of water is being
delivered throughout the canal systems. The mission recommends that all water marks in the
headworks and canal system be restored and maintained for proper water management.
21.   Monitoring and Evaluation. For the purpose of monitoring and evaluation (M&E),
the project is now equipped with computerized facilities in the following three areas: (i) water
management scheduling and allocation model; (ii) computerized data bases for agricultural
monitoring, covering both socio-economic and routine crop production surveys; and (iii)
computerized accounting system. A senior officer has been appointed to head the M&E
division to undertake the additional task of monitoring the work and output of the new
computerized facilities mentioned above.



37
22.   More extensive water management monitoring of flows in CMC, secondary canals and
Tertiary/WC system has been recommended both to record the amount of water delivered to
water users and to assess whether improved operations could be evolved. Records should be
kept of the supply to main secondary and other important canals, with a record of whether
FSL has been maintained and, where practicable, the flow entering the canal, measurement of
the flow leaving from different stages of the project area downward would provide valuable
information for the future development of the project. The results of all monitoring should be
properly recorded at the Project manager's office for reference and action if required. ILis
recommended that the Project Manager should coordinate amongst SMIDB, DOI, Department
of Agriculture and other agencies M&E activities in areas where action is needed and act as a
catalyst to ensure that necessary action is taken.
Issues at O&M Stage
23.   Next Steps. Completion of SMHP assures a fully effective functioning of SMIP. For
this to be successful, it is important that proper attention is paid to: (a) proper O&M of the
infrastructure constructed and installed under the project; (b) the establishment within the
project organization of O&M of that part of the system that had not been handed over to
water users' associations; (c) the provision of adequate annual budget for full O&M of that
part of the system for which the project is responsible; and (d) collection of water charges
regularly on improved services that are made available to the users. Although the transfer
order from the Cabinet was issued about a year ago, the mission observed that the hydro-
power station has, to date, not been handed over to the Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA).
HMGN must ensure that the above actions are carried out.
24.   Water Charges. The level of charges for surface water in public irrigation system
until the end of 1996/97 had been set at NRs. 200/ha/year. Effective 1997/98 the rate of water
charges has been increased to NRs.400/halyear. The level of water charges collection in the
previous two years after the system has been satisfactorily operational is inadequate. On
average, only 25-28% of the amount due was collected by the WUAs. However, only about
50% of the WUAs remitted their collection to the HMGN's treasury in contravention of the
Irrigation Policy. Although this has now been going on for the past two years, no action has
been taken to remedy the situation. The mission is of the view that efficient collection of
water charges is essential and that: (i) for each season a record is kept of the areas irrigated;
(ii) an assessment of water charges due from each WUA is made; (iii) the water charges due is
collected promptly and remitted without delay to the Treasury; and (iv) sanctions for non-
payment of water charges by farmers, and non-remittance by WUAs to the Treasury, are
instigated and enforced. It is recommended that Project Management should seriously review
the matter and advise the Bank of remedies that could be applied to SMIP III.
Lessons Learned
25.   The following lessons have been learned from the project.
for important infrastructure projects like SMHP, the arrangements for contractual
management should be agreed and finalized before credit effectiveness.



38
*  organizational arrangement of the infrastructure installed under the project must be
finalized and in place prior to commencement of construction.
*  prompt decision-making is critical when dealing with ICB contractors to avoid penalties
due to delinquencies in payments of obligations.
*  the success of operation and sustainability of infrastructure projects depends on physical
soundness of structures as well as its social and organizational responsiveness to the
concerns of all stakeholders.
Summary of Recommendations
26.   The following recommendations of the ICR/Supervision mission have been agreed
with HMGN, DOI, and the project management:
(a)   the operation of the Water Allocation and Scheduling Model be revived and
the required data collection be started at least continuously for a number of
years to cover the one hydrologic cycle (para 17).
(b)   make available adequate O&M resources and priority be given to the
developed areas in Stages I and II, and SMHP, where investment on
infrastructure development has been already made (para 18).
(c)   since the new headworks is now operating satisfactorily, the project
management should link the crop diversification in the suitable irrigated
area of the project with the recently approved Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (AREP) to demonstrate to farmers crop diversification
including pre-monsoon croppings (para 19).
(d)   all water marks in the headworks and canal system be restored and
maintained for proper water management (para 20).
(e)   the Project Manager should coordinate amongst SM1DB, DOI, Department
of Agriculture and other agencies M&E activities in areas where action is
needed and act as a catalyst to ensure necessary action is taken (para 22).
(f)   Project Management should seriously review matters related to water charges
collection and remittances and advise the Bank of remedies that could be
applied to SMIP III (para 24).



39
Summary of previous mission's recommendations and actions taken by the Project
Management
Suggestion and Recommendations                        Actions Taken
Expedite the payments of the retention monies and It is still underway.
cleared payments to all the three ICB contractors
Strengthen O&M arrangement for dredger along with  Training is being carried out till to the
more skilled personnel and continue training on O&M   Credit closure.
for next 2 years.
Expedite procurement of the spares before the Credit Spares procurement is being arranged but
closing allowing enough time for tender process and the  not yet finalized.
project consultant to inspect the spares within his
contractual period
Introduce incentive system due to tedious and intensive  It is not yet materialized. The proposal
nature of dredging job and remoteness of the site.  made by the project is still under review by
MOF.
MOWR intervene in this issue which both DOI and  No action by the MOWR has been taken so
NEA management failed to resolve on their own, and  far. It is again repeated in the follow-up
that an agreed solution be reached.              management letter.
Local consultant services be extended till the end of the  Local consultant services were extended till
Kharif season and arrange to take over the activities by  the end of the Kharif season and the
M&E Division in consultat-ion with the concerned  agricultural extension activities has been
Sunsari DADO.                                    arranged to transfer to the forth-coming
Bank funded Agricultural Extension and
Research Project.
The project management revise the reallocation in the  The proposal has been received. Further
light payments and savings and send the revised  details on cancellation are requested from
proposal to IDA through MOF.                     MOF.
Current practice and coordination being carried out by  It is being planned and also coordinated
DOV/DOA be continued even after the closure.     with the currently effected Bank funded
Credit of Agriculture Research and
Extension Project.
Government consider poor recovery of water charges No serious action has been taken so far.
issue seriously and take appropriate measures in  The Bank has mentioned its concern in the
consultation and agreements with the established Water follow-up management letter.
User Organization.
Draft PCR be submitted for IDA review            The draft PCR and POP were submitted in



40
September, 1997. Comments were given to
the DOI and asked to finalize by 4/1998.
Omyint:kg
1ANMYIMOMNOV97\SMIP-AM.d0c



41                             Appendix 2
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Project Benefits
1.        The larger desilting basin constructed in mid 1992 under SMIP II has proved
successful. About 65-70 percent of the incoming sediment to the system has been trapped in the
desilting basin in early part of monsoon kharif irrigation. On average, over 250,000 m3 of deposited
sediment was cleared by the two dredgers installed in the basin since June 1995. This was the
positive indication of the effectiveness of desilting basin provided. Reduction of sediment ingress to
the main canal system enables year-round irrigation with the designed discharge resulting in the
increased cropping intensity. In addition, it would induce farmers to use more farm inputs resulting
in the increased crop yields.
2.        The benefits accrued from the Sunsari Morang Headworks Project (SMHP) are
incremental agricultural production and value added to economy and employment as summarised
below:
Stage I     Stage II    Total I & II    Stage Im    Total (SMIP)
Irrigated area (ha)       9,750        16,700       26,450       31,500        57,950
Annual Inc. Foodgrain    11,220        10,450      21,670        76,255        97,925
Production (tons) 1/
Annual  Inc.  Oilseed
Production (tons) 1/      1,610        2,760        4,370        6,145         10,515
Other Crops (tons) 2/     17,310       33,020       50,330       79,190        129,520
Annual  Inc.   Value
Added to Economy (NRs      184          351          535          1,145         1,680
M)
Directly Benefiting Farm
Families (no) 3/          6,964        11,929       18,893       22,500        41,393
Annual  Inc.   Farm
Employment (jobs)         1,360         1,960       3,320        1,115         4,435
1/ Based on incremental crop production and value between completion of rehabilitation and
completion of the headworks.
2/ Other crops included pulses, vegetables, jute, sugarcane.
3/Based on the average farmn size of 1.4 ha/family.
3.        The project also generated employment during the construction period, estimating at
about 6,000 jobs per day. In addition, the hydropower plant would generate about 12,500,000 kwh
annually at full development.



/    42
Economic Re-evaluation
4.        The economic viability of the SMHP has been re-evaluated at ICR. The analysis has
treated SMIHP as a self-contained project and a time-slice of a larger Sunsari Morang Irrigation
Project (SMIP). The first approach includes investment costs and benefits of SMIP I and II and
SMHP but excludes SMIP HI. Without further development, SMIP Im would hardly benefit from
the new SMHP. The second approach includes SMIP I & II and SMHP, plus further development
projects in SMIP IH. In addition, the two approaches also treat SMIP I & II as sunk costs.
5.        The economic rates of return (ERRs) are re-estimated between 19.9% for SMIP
(scenario 2, Table 17) and 20.3% for SMVLHP (scenario 1, Table 16) compared with 14% and 15%
respectively estimated at SAR. Treating SMIP I and II as sunk costs, ERRs are re-estimated at
40.2%-47.1% for SMIP (scenario 5 and 6, Tables 20 and 21) and 42.0%-49.5% for SMIHP
(scenario 3 and 4, Tables 18 and 19) compared with 20%-32% and 22%-49% respectively
estimated at SAR. The results of ERRs are summarised below:
ERR (%)
Scenario                           SAR Estimates               ICR Estimates
1. SMHP ( II & SMHP)                    15.0                        20.3
2. SMIP (I, 11, SMNHP, plus III)        14.0                         19.9
3. SMHP (II & SMHP, I sunk              22.0                        42.0
cost)
4. SMHP (SMHP, I & II sunk              49.0                        49.5
cost)
5. SMIP (]E, SMIHP & m, I               20.0                        40.2
sunk cost)
6. SMIP (SMHP & m, I & H                32.0                        47.1
sunk cost)
6.         Major factors contributing to higher ERRs are higher cropping intensities and crop
yields. For stage I and II areas, cropping intensities (171%-173% under partial irrigation and 198%
under complete rehabilitation) are 37% and 19% higher than those estimated at SAR respectively
(135% and 179%). Although yields of minor crops are 6%-20% lower than the SAR estimates,
yields of main crops, e.g. paddy, wheat, oilseeds, sugarcane, are 10%-40% higher than the SAR
estimates. For SMIP III areas, incremental cropping intensity under rehabilitation/headworks is
38% and incremental yields of main crops are 15%-70% higher than those in without project. The
substantial increases in yields reflect the difference between irrigated crops and rainfed crops.



43
7.        The underlining assumptions for economic re-evaluation followed those assumptions
used at SAR as discussed below:
(a)  The analysis period is 40 years;
(b)  All costs and benefits are expressed in 1997 constant prices. Past expenditures
(Tables I and 2) have been re-stated in 1997 prices by using GDP deflator and
MUV indice. Local costs and unskilled labour were further adjusted by a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.90;
(c)  O&M expenditures and budget requirements in financial and economic terms
prepared by SMIP Office are shown in Table 3;
(d)  Replacement costs have been assumed at 10 years for O&M  and office
equipment and vehicles and  dredgers, and 20 years for equipment for
hydropower plant and headworks and CMC gates;
(e)  Agricultural benefits have been quantified from  each stages of development,
including (i) rehabilitation of stage I (9,750 ha) and II (16,700 ha) areas, (ii)
remodelling of stage I area (9,750 ha), (iii) completion of the setling basins and
desilting in stage 1 (2,430 ha) and II (4,175 ha) areas, and (iv) completion of the
new headworks in stage I (9,750 ha) and 11 (16,700 ha) areas. Phasing of
benefited areas is presented in Table 4. For SMIP m, agricultural benefits have
been quantified from the completion of the new headworks, plus further
irrigation system development which are assumed to be undertaken during
FY98-FY02'for phase I (15,100 ha) and during FY03-FY07 for phase 1I (16,400
ha);
(f) For stage I and 11, cropping patterns and yields have been based on three
situations: (i) without project (WOP) is based on 90/91 production data
estimated at appraisal, reflecting the pre-project situation in stage I and 11 areas
that have not been rehabilitated; (ii) partial irrigation (PI) is based on 94/95
production data collected by the agricultural staff in SMIP within stage I and II
areas, reflecting the situation in stage I and Il that have been rehabilitated but are
still not receiving full irrigation water supply due to silt problem; and (iii)
complete rehabilitation assumed by the mission based on the past production
trend, reflecting the situation once the rehabilitation and headworks are
completed in stage I and II areas, and once the headworks and further
development in stage m areas are completed. For SMIP HI, the present situation
is based on 95/96 production data collected by SMIP staff within stage m areas,
reflecting the situation that has no rehabilitation. The future without project
situation has been assumed by the ICR mission based on the past production
trends. Cropping patterns, yields and production for stage L 11 and III are
presented in Tables 5-7, and per ha crop budgets are presented in Tables 8-13;



44
(g) Built-up of agricultural benefits ( cropping patterns and intensities and yields)
have been assumed for five years at the rates of 30%, 50%, 70%, 90% and
100%;
(h)  Financial prices of outputs and inputs have been based on the 1997 average
market prices prevailing in the project areas (Table 14). Economic farm gate
prices of traded commodities (paddy, maize, wheat, jute, sugar) and fertilisers
have been based on the import parity prices. The average 2000-2005 world
market prices forecasted by the World Bank, expressed in 1997 constant value
and adjusted for transport and handling charges to farm gate prices (Table 15)
were used throughout the economic analysis. Non-traded goods, including
unskilled labour were based on the average financial farm gate prices, adjusted
by SCF of 0.90;
(i)  All labour and draft power (family and hired) were taken into account in the
analysis; and
(j) At full development, about 12,.500,000 kwh of hydropower would be generated
headworks and SMIP, estimating at 2,400,000 kwh, about 10,100,000 kwh
would be net surplus and utilised for other purposes., valued at NRs 30..3 million
at the estimated long run marginal cost of hydropower of NRs 3.0/kwh.
Farm Incomes
9.        The financial impact of the project on farm incomes is substantial. Annual net farm
incomes are estimated to increase by 65%-79% for partial irrigation farms and 166% for complete
rehabilitation farms in stage I and TT areas, and by 175% for complete rehabilitation farms in stage
mII areas. The estimated annual net farm incomes for the average farm size of 1.4 ha increase from
NRs 18,000 in WOP to NRs 29,750-NRs 32,250 in partial irrigation and NRs 47,930 in complete
irrigation in stage I and II areas, and from NRs 17,400 in WOP to NRs 47,930 in WP in stage m
areas.
10.       The impact of the recently increased water charge from NRs 200/ha/season to NRs
400/ha/season would be small. Annual water charges of NRs 1,109/ha/year (water charge of NRs
400/ha/season, farm size of 1.4 ha and cropping intensity of 198%) would comprise only 2.3% of
annual net farm incomes of the complete rehabilitation farms.



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project         Table
(Cr. 2430-N
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures of SMHP
(Nrs Million)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96         FY97  FY98 a/    Total
Actual Expenditures in Current Prices
Civil Works:
Local Costs (LC)                  0.0      0.0    179.8   243.6   205.0    234.2   108.7   971.3
Foreign Exchange Costs (FEC)                                                                     0.0
Subtotal                          0.0     0.0    179.8   243.6   205.0    234.2    108.7   971.3
Dredging Equipment (FEC)          0.0      0.0    139.8    52.6    21.7    142.1        2.3    358.5
Other Equipment (LC)                                                                             0.0
Vehicles (FEC)                                                                                   0.0
Subtotal                          0.0     0.0    139.8    52.6    21.7    142.1         2.3    358.5
TA/Training/Admin:
LC                                0.0     0.0    24.5    71.9    103.9        35.8      1.9   238.0
FEC                                                                                              0.0
Subtotal                          0.0     0.0    24.5    71.9    103.9        35.8      1.9   238.0
O&M Costs (LC)                    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      3.2       5.7      5.7     14.6
Others LC                                                                                        0.0
Total                             0.0      0.0   344.1    368.1    333.8    417.8    118.6   1582.4
a/ December 1997.
Source: SMIP Office, Biratnagar.
LC                                0.0     0.0   204.3    315.5   312.1    275.7    116.3   1223.9
FEC                               0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Equipment                                                                                        0.0
LC                                0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
FEC                               0.0     0.0    139.8    52.6    21.7    142.1         2.3    358.5
Total      1582.4



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project                                 Table I
(Cr. 2430-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures of Stage 1, II &; m
(NRs Million)
Stage 1 (9750 ha)
FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    Total
Actual Expenditures in Current Prices
Local Costs                           3.5    17.3    33.4    25.0       14.3     18.7    36.8    66.0    33.3   248.3
ForeignExchangeCosts                  4.3    21.1    40.8    20.1       17.5    22.7    44.9    80.7    40.6   292.7
Total                                 7.8    38.4    74.2    45.1       31.8    41.4    81.7   146.7    73.9   541.0
Stage II (16700 ha)
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95                   Total
Actual Expenditures in Current Prices:
Local Costs                          16.6    30.5    33.5    51.4    86.6    110.2   104.6    24.5                 457.9
ForeignExchangeCosts                  5.3    50.8    82.7   157.9   301.7   370.7   395.3    41.9                 1406.3
Total                                21.9    81.3   116.2   209.3    388.3   480.9   499.9    66.4                1864.2
cr
Source: Expenditures for Stage I and H are based on Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project, ICR, February 1996.
Stage I, Phase I (15100 ha)
FY98    FY99    FY00    FYOI    FY02                                           Total
Estimated Financial Costs in 1997 Prices Il:
Local Costs                         155.6   360.7   569.1    431.7    70.8                                        1587.9
ForeignExchange Costs                54.7   126.7   200.0    151.7    24.9                                         558.0
Total                               210.3   487.4   769.1    583.4    95.7                                        2145.9
Stage m, Phase II (16400 ha)
FY03    FY04    FY05    FY06    FY07                                           Total
Esfimated Financial Costs in 1997 Prices 1/:
Local Costs                         169.0   391.8   618.1   468.9    76.9                                         1724.7
Foreign Exchange Costs               59.4   137.6   217.2    164.8    27.0                                         606.0
Total                               228.4   529.4   835.3   633.7    103.9                                        2330.7
Source: NISP PAD, November 1997, adjusted to 1997 constant prices.



NEPAL                     Table 2
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures of SMHP (NRs M)
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97  FY98 a/    Total
Civil Works:
Local Costs (LC)             0.00     0.00     0.00    21.70    76.12    70.51    18.24    3.72   190.29
Foreign Exchange Costs (FEC)  0.00    0.00     0.00    50.66   177.61   164.53    42.56    8.68   444.04
Subtotal                                               72.36   253.73   235.04    60.80    12.40   634.33
Dredging Equipment (FEC)     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   121.00     5.70    34.17   160.87
Power Supply Equipment (FEC)    0.00  0.00     0.00     0.00   163.50    36.00    19.73    4.00   223.23
Equipment & vehicles a/      0.00     0.00     0.00   105.93    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   105.93
Subtotal                     0.00     0.00     0.00   105.93    163.5     157    25.43    38.17   490.03
TA/Eng/Training b/:
LC                           2.04    10.31     3.81    10.77    6.09     4.93     5.07     2.03    45.05
FEC                          8.16    41.25    15.25    43.09    24.38    19.71    20.26    8.11   180.21
Subtotal                    10.20    51.56    19.06    53.86    30.47    24.64    25.33    10.14   225.26
O&M of Dredgers:
LC                           0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.28     0.40     1.68
FEC                          0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    11.55     3.60    15.15
Subtotal                     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    12.83     4.00    16.83
Miscelleneous (LC)           0.00     0.00     0.00    77.37    32.89   105.52    9.46     3.36   228.60
Total                       10.20    51.56    19.06   309.52   480.59   522.20   133.85    68.07  1595.05
a/ Expenditures in FY94 were provided under SMIP II (Cr. 1814-NEP).
b/ Expenditures during FY91-FY93 were provided under SMIP II (Cr. 1814-NEP).



NEPAL                                     Table 3
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
lmplementation Completion Report
O&M Expenditures & Budget Requirement
(NRs Million, 1997 constant prices)
Actuall/
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Stage I
Financial costs                    5.2      1.2      1.5       3.8      2.4       7.5      5.5
Economic costa 2/                  4.8      1.1      1.4       3.5      2.2      6.9       5.0
Stage II
Financial costs                    8.8      2.1      2.5       6.6      4.1      12.7      9.4
Economic costs 2/                  8.1      1.9      2.3       6.0      3.8      11.6      8.6
1/ Table IOB, SMIP 11 ICR, February 1996, adjusted to 1997 prices.
2/ Assuming 16% FEC and 84% LC x SCF of 0.90.
Budget Requirement
NRs/ha    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    FY02    FY03
Headworks               29.4      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0
CMC Desilting           85.0      5.8                          5.8                         5.8
CMC Maintenance         52.0      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5
Water Mgt Activities    95.0      5.5       5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5                                                      00
Whole admin costs      140.0      8.1       8.1      8.1       8.1      8.1      8.1       8.1      8.1
Subtotal                         24.9     19.1      19.1     24.9     19.1      19.1     24.9      19.1
Stage I
O&M by project 2/      164.0      4.0       3.6      3.0       2.4      1.9       1.6      1.6      1.6
O&MbyWUOs3/            318.0      0.7       1.2      1.8       2.3      3.4      3.1       3.1      3.1
Subtotal              482.0       4.7      4.8       4.8      4.7      5.3       4.7      4.7      4.7
Stage 1I
O&M by project 2/       60.0      2.9       3.3      1.8       1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0
O&MbyWUOs3/            383.0      3.3       4.1      6.4       6.4      6.4      6.4       6.4      6.4
Subtotal               443.0      6.2       7.4      8.2       7.4      7.4      7.4       7.4      7.4
Stage m                400.0     12.6      12.6     12.6      12.6     12.6     12.6      12.6     12.6
Total O&M costs-Finan    756.0   48.4      43.9     44.7     49.6      44.4     43.8     49.6      43.8
Total O&Mcosts-Econ    692.5     44.3      40.2     40.9     45.4      40.7     40.1     45.4      40.1
1/ Table IOA, SMIP IL ICR, Febnsary 1996, adjusted to 1997 prices.
2/ O&M from SC down to SSC and WC levels.
3/ O&M from on-farm systems upto SSC level.
4/ Asuming 16% FEC and 84% LC x SCF of 0.90.



NEPAL                                  Table 4
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
Implementation Completion Report
Phasing of benefitted Area (ha)
Stage I                      Stage II    Stage III, Phase I  Stage III
Rehab.  Remodel Desilting Headworks   Rehab. Desilting Headworks   Rehab.   Rehab.
Basins                       Basins
FY8      2440
FY8      2440
FY8      2440
FY8      2430
FY88
FY89
FY90                                              890
FY91                                             2710
FY92                                             2420
FY93                        2430                 2375     4175
FY94               1100                          5040                                                                   '.
FY95                  0                          3265
FY96               2050
FY97               4300                8775                         15000
FY98               2300                 975                          1700
FY99                                                                           1510
FYOO                                                                           3020
FY01                                                                           3020
FY02                                                                           3020
FY03                                                                           4530
FY04
FY05                                                                                     1645
FY06                                                                                    3290
FY07                                                                                    3290
FY08                                                                                    3290
FY09                                                                                    4935
Total    9750      9750     2430       9750    16700      4175      16700    15100    16450



Table 5
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropped Area, Yields & Production
Stage I (9750 ha)
Without Project              Partial Irrigation         Complete Rehabilitation
90/91                       94/95                         00/01
Area (ha) ield (t/ha)    Total   Area (ha) ield (tlha)    Total    Area (ha) ield (t/ha)    Total
production                   production                     Production
(tons)                       (tons)                         (tons)
Khaif
Early Paddy           293      1.70     498        7508      3.30    24776       5850      4.20    24570
Late Paddy           7807       2.5   19518        1463       2.4    3511        2438         3     7313
Maize                1269       1.8    2284          49        2       98           0         0        0
Jute                    0      0.00        0          0     0.80        0         488      1.30      634
Pulses                  0      0.00        0         78     0.60       47           0      0.00        0
Oilseeds                0      0.00        0          0     0.00        0          195     1.50      293
Vegetables              0      0.00        0         68    12.00      816           0      0.00        0
subtotal             9369             22300        9166             29248        8970              32809
Rabi                                                                                                                                              U'
wheat                1659      1.50    2489        4500     2.40    10800        4875      3.00    14625
Oilseeds              781       0.5     391         975      0.6      585         1268      1.5    1901
Pulses                293       0.5      147       1200      0.6      720        1463       1.3    1901
potato                 49       8.0     392         293       12    3516          488        15    7313
vegetable              49       8.0     392         293       15    4395          195        15     2925
sugarcane              98      25.0    2450          79       35     2765         293       50    14625
subtotal             2929              6260        7340             22781        8580              43290
hot season
jute                  488       1.3      634        166       1.3     216        487.5      1.3      634
paddy                   0        0         0          0        0        0         975        4      3900
pule                    0        0         0          0        0        0           0        0         0
oilseeds                0        0         0          0        0        0         195       1.5      293
vegetables              0        0         0          0        0        0         97.5      15      1463
subtotal              488               634         166               216        1755               6289
Total Cropped Area    12786           29194       16672             52245       19305             82388
Net Cultivable Area  9750                          9750                          9750
Cropping Intensity (%/o   131%                     171%                          198%



NEPAL                                           Table 6
Sunsaui Morang Headworks Project
Implementation Compldeion Report
Cropped Area, Yields & Production
Stage 11 (16,700 ha)
Without Project               Partial Irrigation       Complete Rehabilitation
90/9                        94/95                          00/01
Area (ha) ield (t/ha)    Total    Area (ha) ield (t/ha)    Total    Area (ha) ield (t/ha)    Total
production                    production                     roduction
(tons)                        (tons)                        (tons)
Kharif
Early Paddy           501      1.70     852        12525     3.60    45090       10020     4.20   42084
Late Paddy          13360       2.5   33400         3340      2.6    8684         4175        3    12525
Maize                2171       1.8    3908            0        0        0           0        0        0
Jute                    0      0.00       0            0     0.00        0         835      1.30    1086
Pulses                  0      0.00       0          133     0.60       80           0     0.00        0
Oilseeds                0      0.00       0            0     0.00        0         334      1.50     501
Vegetables              0      0.00       0           84    12.00     1008           0     0.00        0
subtotal            16032             38160        16082             54862       15364             56196
Rabi                                                                                                                                                LA
wheat                2839      1.50    4259         7350     2.10    15435        8350     3.00    25050
Oilseeds             1336       0.5     668         2000      0.5    1000         2171       1.5    3257
Pulses                501       0.5     251         2175      0.6    1305         2505       1.3    3257
potato                 84       8.0     672          350       12    4200          835       15   12525
vegetable              84       8.0     672          250       12    3000          334       15    5010
sugarcane             167      25.0    4175          420       35    14700         501       50   25050
subtotal             5011             10696        12545             39640       14696             74148
hot season
jute                   835      1.3    1086          300       1.3     390         835       1.3  1085.5
paddy                   0        0        0            0        0        0        1670        4    6680
pulses                  0        0        0            0        0        0           0        0        0
oiiseeds                0        0        0            0        0        0         334       1.5     501
vegdables               0        0        0            0        0        0         167       15    2505
maize
subtotal              835               1086         300               390        3006            10771.5
Total CroppedArea    21878            49941        28927             94892       33066            141115
Net Cultivable Area    16700                       16700                         16700
Cropping fItensity (%    131%                       173%                          198%



Table 7
NEPAL
Sunari Mong Headworks Project
Inipleentation Completion Repot
Cropped Area, Yields and Production-SMIP m Phase I
(15,100 ha)
PBesCnt                      Without Project                 With Project
95/96
Arma (ha) ield (tlha)    Total   Area (ha) ield (t/ha)    Total    Area (ha) ield (t/ha)    Total
production                   production                     Production
(tons)                       (tons)                        (tons)
Khasif
Irrigated paddy-HYV       2265      3.00     6795       2870      3.30     9471        9060     4.20    38052
Irigated paddy-lood       2718       2.4    6523        1208       2.4    2899         3775        3    11325
rainfed paddy             7550       1.S   13590        7550       1.8   13590            0        0        0
jut-i8igated                453     0.80      362        755      0.80      604         755     1.30      982
jute-rainfed               1963     0.60     1178       1661      0.60      997           0     0.00        0
PuIses                       0      0.00        0          0      0.00       0           0      0.00        0
ouseeds                      0      0.00        0          0      0.00       0         302      1.50      453
vegtbbles                    0      0.00        0          0      0.00       0            0        0        0
subtotal                 14949              2144S      14044             27561        13892             50S12
Rai
wheat                     4530      1.50     6795       5285      1.80     9513       7550      3.00    22650
oilseeds                   906       0.6      544       1510       0.6     906         1963      1.5    2945
pulses                     1510      0.5      755       2265       0.5    1133        2265       1.3    2945
potato-n1gated              151        8    '1208        151        8      1208         755       15    11325
potato-rainfed             453         5     2265        755        5      3775          0         0        0
vtgetable                    0         0        0          0        0        0         302        15     4530
sugarce                    151       35      5285        151       40     6040         453        50    22650
subtotal                  7701              16852      10117             22575        13288             67044
hot season
jute-irrigated                0                 0          0                  0         755      1.3    981.5
paddy                        0                  0          0                 0         1510       4      6040
pulss                        0                  0          0                 0           0        0         0 
oilseeds                     0                  0          0                 0         302       1.5      453
vegctables                   0                  0          0                 0          151       15     2265
subtotal                     0                  0          0                 0        2718               9740
Total Cropped Area       22650              45300      24161             50135       29898             127595
Net Cultivable Area      15100                         15100                          15100
Cropping Intensity (%)    150%                          160%                           19S%



NEPAL
Suonari Morang Headworb Project                   Table 8
Implementaton Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Cxop Budget
Without Project
Stage I & 11
Khaif                                                     Rabi
Paddy    Paddy    Maze       Jute      Jut   oileeds   Wheat  Oiseeds    Puls       Potato Vepetables Sugercane    othr
output              eacly     late              HYV        LV                                          ipgated
Main Produce:
Yield(tha)               1.7       2.5      1.8      1.3        0         0       1.5      0.5       0.5        8         8       25         0
Pricett                 7000     7000     6700      7500         0              8000    18500    15000       6000     10000     1000         0
Value                  11900    17500    12060      9750         0        0    120D0      9250     7500    48000    80000    25000           0
By-Products:
Yied(tha)                2.5       3.8      2.3      2.1        0         0       1.6     0.37       0.7        0         0        0         0
Price/t                  660      660       300      300                         300      5130     6000         0         0        0         0
Value                   1650     2508       690      630         0        0       480     1898     4200         0         0        0         0
TotlalGrowVahie        13550    20009    12750    10380          0        0    12480    11148    11700    48000       80000    25000         0
Se-dKk/)                  60       60        15        8         0                100        8        50      800         1     2000         0
Pric/kg                   10       10         8       50        0                12.5       23        20     10.5      1250         1        0
Value                    600      600       120      400         0        0      1250      184      1000     8400      1250     2000         0
Uceaft/ba)                 0      43.5        0      43.5        0        0      26.5        0         0       35       32.6     43.5        0
Pricelkg                 8.0       8.0      8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0
Value                      0      348         0      348         0        0       212        0         0      280       261      348         0
DAP(kgha)                  0        0         0        0         0        0      43.5        0        0        22      43.5      43.5        0
Price/kg                17.2      17.2     17.2      17.2     17.2      17.2     17.2      17.2     17.2     17.2       17.2     17.2     17.2
Vaue                       0        0         0        0         0        0    748.2         0         0      378       748    748.2         0
MOPk*ha)                   0        0         0        0        0         0         0        0        0       16.6      16.6     16.6        0
Price/g                  9.2       9.2      9.2      9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2
Value                      0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0    152.72    152.72   152.72        0
Msnuce(t/ha)             4.0      0.0       4.0      4.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      6.0       4.0       4.0      0.0
Price/t                  200      200       200      200      200       200       200      200      200       200       200      200       200
Vlue                     800        0       80      800         0        0         0        0         0     1200       g00       800        0
Chetaical:
Value                     80       50        30        0         0        0         0        0         0       50         0        30        0
TotidLabour(md/ira)       90      125        70      150         0                 68       38        35      130       110       150        0
Hied Labour (md)        27.0      37.5     21.0   * 45.0       0.0      0.0      20.4      11.4     10.5     39.0      33.0      45.0      0.0
Price/md                  55       55        55       55        55       55        55       55        55       55        55       55        55
LabourCosts             1485     2063      1155     2475         0        0      1122      627       578     2145      1815     2475         0
TotId Anidml Dayr(ad)     35       38        25       25         0                 25       24        20       33        30        40        0
hired Amimal (ad)        7.0       7.6      5.0       5.0      0.0       0.0      5.0       4.8      4.0      6.6        6.0      8.0      0.0
Price/ad                 110      110       110      110       110      110       110      110       110      110       110       110      110
Animal Costs             770      836       550      550         0        0       550      528       440      726       660       880        0
Total Costs            3735      3897     2655      4573        0         0     3882      1339     2018    13332       5687     7434         0
NetProdutionValue       9815    16112    10095      5807         0        0      8598     9809      9683    34668     74313    17566         0



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project                       Table 9
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Partial Irrigation -stage I
Kharif                                                          Rabi
Paddy     Paddy     Maize       Jute    Pulses Vegetables    Wheat   Oilseeds      Pulses    Potato Vegetables Sugarcane    others
Output:             early      late                                                                           inigated
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)               3.3       2.4         2        1.3       0.6        12        2.4       0.6       0.6        12         15        35          0
Price/t                 7000      7000       6700      7500      15000      7000      8000      18500     15000      6000      10000      1000          0
Value                  23100     16800      13400      9750      9000      84000     19200      11100      9000     72000    150000      35000          0
By-Products:
Yield(tAa)               3.6        3.6       2.5       2.1       0.08         0        1.4      0.45       0.1         0          0         0          0
Price/t                  660       660        300       300       300                  300       5130      6000         0          0         0          0
Value                   2376      2376        750       630        24          0       420       2309       600         0          0         0          0
TotalGrossValue        25476      19176     14150     10380      9024      84000     19620      13409      9600     72000    150000      35000          0
Inputs:
SeedsQt/ba)               50        50        30         10        40          2       120         15        40      1500        0.5      6000         0
Price/kg                  10        10          8        50        20        150       12.5       23         20       10.5      1250         1         0
Value                    500       500        240       500       800        300      1500        345       800     15750        625      6000         0
Ure(gihe)                 80        60         60        60        30         60       120         30        30        120       120        90          0
Pricekg                  8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0
Value                    640       480        480       480       240        480       960       240        240       960        960       720         0                                              Un
DAPk4Ia)                  60        60        60         30        30         90        60        30         30       120        120        90         0
Price/kg                 17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2       17.2      17.2       17.2      17.2      17.2       17.2      17.2       17.2      17.2
Value                   1032      1032       1032       516       516       1548      1032       516        516      2064       2064      1548         0
MOPQy/ha)                  0         0          0         0         0         30        30         0          0        30         30        30         0
Price/kg                 9.2        9.2       9.2       9.2        9.2       9.2        9.2       9.2       9.2        9.2       9.2        9.2       9.2
Value                      0         0          0         0         0        276       276         0          0       276        276       276         0
Manure(t/ah)             0.0        0.0       2.0       0.0        0.0       2.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       2.0        3.0       0.0
Price/t                  200       200        200       200       200        200       200       200        200       200        200       200       200
Value                      0         0       400          0         0        400         0         0          0         0        400       600         0
Chemicals:
Value                    200       200       200          0         0        300       100        100         0       400        400       500         0
Total Laboa(mdlha)       145        140       100       100        50        180       100         50        45       180        200       200         0
HiredLabouar(md)        43.5       42.0      30.0      30.0       15.0      54.0       30.0      15.0      13.5       54.0      60.0      60.0    .   0.
Pnice/md                  55        55        55         55        55         55        55        55         55        55        55         55        55
Labour Corsts           2393      2310       1650      1650       825       2970      1650       825        743      2970       3300      3300         0
Total Arsim  Days(ad)     35        30         25        30        25         40        25        24         20        33         30        40         0
hired Aninaa (ad)         7.0       7.6       5.0       6.0        5.0       8.0        5.0       4.8       4.0        6.6       6.0       8.0        0.0
Price/ad                 110       110        110       110       110        110       110       110        110       110        110       110       110
Animal Coats             770       836        550       660       550        880       550       528        440       726        660       880         0
Total Costs             5535      5358      4552      3806       2931      7154       6068      2554      2739      23146      8685      13824         0
NetProductionVadue     19942     13818      9598       6574      6093      76846     13552      10855      6862     48854    141315      21176         0



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project                          Table 10
Implementathon Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Partial liigation-stage II
Kharif                                                            Rabi
Paddy     Paddy      Maize        Jute     Pulses Vegetables    Wheat   Oilseeds      Pulses     Potato Vegetables Sugarcane      others
Output:                  early       late                                                                               ingated
Main Produce:
Yidd(ttha)                     3.6        2.6         2         1.3       0.6         12        2.1        0.5        0.6        12         12         35          0
Pricett                      7000       7000       6700       7500      15000       7000      8000       18500      15000      6000      10000       1000          0
Value                       25200      18200      13400       9750       9000      84000      16800      9250       9000      72000     120000      35000          0
By-Products:
Yield(tha)                     3.9        3.9       2.5        2.1       0.0S          0        1.2        0.4        0.1         0          0          0          0
Pricett                       660        660        300        300        300                  300       5130       6000          0          0          0          0
Value                        2574       2574        750        630         24          0        360      2052        600          0          0          0          0
TotalGross Value            27774      20774      14150      10380       9024      84000      17160      11302      9600      72000     120000      35000          0
inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)                    50        50         30         10         40          2        120        15         40       1500         0.5      6000          0
Price/kg                        to        10          8         50         20        150       12.5        23         20        10.5      1250          1          0
Value                         500        500        240        500        800        300       1500       345        800      15750        625       6000          0
Urea(kg/ha)                    100        80         60         60         30         60        100          0         30        120       120         90          0
Price/kg                       8.0        8.0       8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0
Value                          800       640        480        480        240        480        800          0       240        960        960        720          0                                                  U,l
DAPftJg/ha)                    60         60         60         30         30         90        100         30        30        120        120         90          0
Price/kg                      17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2      17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2
Value                         1032      1032       1032        516        516       1548       1720        516       516       2064       2064       1548          0
MOPQyIa)                         0         0          0          0          0         30         30          0          0        30         30         30          0
Price/kg                       9.2        9.2        9.2       9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2
Value                           0          0          0          0          0        276        276          0          0       276        276        276          0
Manure(t/ha)                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        2.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        2.0        3.0        0.0
Price/t                        200       200        200        200        200        200        200       200        200        200        200        200        200
Value                            0         0          0          0          0        400          0          0          0         0        400        600          0
Chemicals:
Value                          200       200        200          0          0        300        100        100          0       400        400        500          0
Total Labour(md/ha)            150        140       100        100         50        180        100         50         45        180       200        200          0
Hired Labour (md)             45.0       42.0       30.0      30.0        15.0      54.0       30.0       15.0       13.5       54.0       60.0       60.0        0.0
Price/md                        55        55         55         55         55         55         55         55         55        55         55         55         55
Labour Costs                 2475       2310       1650       1650        825       2970       1650       825        743       2970       3300       3300          0
TotalAnimalDays(ad)             45        35         25         30         25         40         30         20         20        40         40         40          0
hired Animal (ad)              9.0        7.0        5.0        6.0       5.0        8.0        6.0        4.0        4.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        0.0
Price/ad                       110       110        110        110        110        110        110        110        110       110        110        110        110
Animal Costs                   990       770        550        660        550        880        660        440        440       880        880        880          0
Total Costs                  5997       5452       4152       3806      2931       7154       6706       2226       2739      23300       8905      13824          0
Net Production Value         21777      15322      9998       6574       6093      76846      10454       9076       6862     48700     111095      21176          0



NEPAL                                                     Table 11
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget-SMIP Ill Phasel
Present
Kharif                                                       Rabi                                                             hot season
Paddy    Paddy    Paddy        Jute       Jute  oilseeds    Wheat  Oilseeds    Pulses    Potato    Potato Sugarcane vegetables      Jute
Output:          Irrigated  Irigated   rainfed  irrigated   rainfed                                         irrigated   rainfed                     Irrigated
HYV       local
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)                 3        2.4       1.8      0.8        0.6        0        1.5       0.6       0.5        8         5        35         0         0
Price/t                  7000      7000      7000      7500      7500                8000     18500    15000       6000      6000      1000                7500
Value                   21000     16800    12600       6000      4500         0     12000    11100       7500    48000    30000    35000            0         0
By-Products:
Yield(t/ha)                3.2        3        2.7                                     0.9      0.45      0.07        0         0         0         0         0
Price/t                   660       660       660                                     300      5130      6000         0         0         0         0         0
Value                    2112      1980      1782         0         0         0       270      2309       420         0         0         0         0         0
Total Gross Value       23112     18780    14382       6000      4500         0    12270    13409        7920    48000    30000    35000            0         0
Inputs:
Seeds(cg/ha)               50        60        60        10        10                 100        15        45      1120      1000      6000         0         0
Price/kg                   10        10        10        50        50                 12.5       23        20       10.5      10.5        1         0        50
Value                     500       600       600       500       500         0      1250       345       900     11760     10500      6000         0         0
Urea(kg/ha)                45        45                  60                            60        30         0        40         0        60         0         0
Price/kg                   8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0
Value                     360       360         0       480         0         0       480       240         0       320         0       480         0         0                                               OE
DAP(yg/ba)                  0         0                  60                            60        30         0        50         0        60                   0
Price/kg                  17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2
Value                       0         0         0      1032         0         0      1032       516         0       860         0      1032         0         0
MOP(ha)                     0         0                                                 0         0         0         0         0        30                   0
Price/kg                   9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2        9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2        9.2      9.2       9.2        9.2
Value                       0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       276         0         0
Manure(t/ha)               0.0       0.0                                               0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0        0                             0
Price/t                   200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200
Value                       0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Chemicals:
Value                                                                                   0         0         0         0         0       300                   0
Total Labour(md/ha)       130       125       120        90        75                  75        40        30       120       110       200                   0
HiredLabour(md)            39        38        36        27        23         0        23        12         9        36        33        60         0         0
Price/md                   55        55        55        55        55        55        55        55        55        55        55        55        55        55
LabourCosts              2145      2063      1980      1485      1238         0      1238       660       495      1980      1815      3300         0         0
Total Animal Days(ad)      30        30        30        37        37                  28        20        20        30        30        40                   0
hired Animal (ad)           6         6         6         7         7         0         6         4         4         6         6         8         0         0
Pricelad                  110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110       110
Animal Costs              660       660       660       814       814         0       616       440       440       660       660       880         0         0
TotalCosts               3665      3683      3240     4311      2552          0     4616      2201       1835    15580    12975    12268           0         0
Net Production Value    19447    15098    11142        1689      1949         0      7655     11208      6085    32420      17025    22732          0         0



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project                                      Table 12
Implementation Completion Report
Per ha Financial Crop Budget-SMIP IIl Phase I
Present Without Project
Kharif                                                    Rabi                                                               Hot Season
Paddy    Paddy    Paddy   Jute        Jute      Oilseed   Wheat   Oilseeds  Pulses   Potato    Potato  Sugarcane Vegetable  Jute
Output:               inigate  irrigate   Raimfed  hinigate   Rainfed                                         irigated  Rainfed                      hrigated
HYV      local
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)               3.3      2.4       1.8       0.8       0.6        0        1.8      0.6       0.5        8         5        40         0         0
Price/t                 7000      7000      7000     7500      7500                8000    18500    15000       6000      6000      1000                7500
Value                  23100    16800    12600       6000      4500         0    14400    11100       7500    48000    30000    40000            0         0
By-Products:
Yield(t/ha)              3.5         3       2.7                                     1.1     0.45      0.07        0         0         0         0         0
Price/t                  660       660      660                                     300      5130     6000         0         0         0         0         0
Value                   2310      1980      1782        0         0         0       330      2309      420         0         0         0         0         0
Total Gross Value      25410    18780    14382       6000      4500         0    14730    13409       7920    48000    30000    40000            0         0
Inputs:
Seedskg/h)                50        60       60        10        10                 100        15       45      1120      1000      6000         0         0
Price/kg                  10        10        10       50        50                12.5        23       20       10.5      10.5        1         0        50
Value                    500       600       600      500       500         0      1250       345      900    11760    10500        6000         0         0
Urea(kg/ha)              100        45                 60                           100        30         0       40         0       100         0         0
Price/kg                  8.0      8.0        8.0       8.0      8.0      0.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0       8.0       8.0
Value                    800       360        0       480         0         0       800       240        0       320         0       800         0         0
DAP(kg/ia)                75         0                 60                            75        30        0        50         0       100                   0
Price/kg                 17.2     17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2     17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2      17.2     17.2      17.2      17.2
Value                   1290         0         0     1032         0         0      1290       516         0      860         0      1720         0         0
MOP(kg/ha)                25         0                                               25         0         0        0         0        30                   0
Price/kg                  9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2      9.2       9.2       9.2       9.2
Value                    230         0         0        0         0         0       230         0        0         0         0       276         0         0
Manure(t/ha)              0.0      0.0                                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0         0         0         0
Pcice/t                  200       200       200      200       200       200       200       200      200       200       200       200       200       200
Value                      0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Chemicals:
Value                                                                                 0         0        0         0         0       300         0         0
Total Labour(md/ha)      140       125       120       90        75                 100        40        30      120       110       200         0         0
Hired Labour (md)         42        38       36        27        23         0        30        12        9        36        33        60         0         0
Price/md                  55        55       55        55        55        55        55        55       55        55        55        55        55        55
LabourCosts             2310      2063      1980     1485      1238         0      1650       660      495      1980      1815      3300         0         0
Total Animal Days(ad      30        30        30       37        37                  28        20        20       30        30        40                   0
hired Animal (ad)          6         6         6        7         7         0         6         4         4        6         6         8         0         0
Price/ad                 110       110       110       110      110       110       110       110       110      110       110       110       110       110
AnimalCosts              660       660       660      814       814         0       616       440      440       660       660       880         0         0
TotalCosts              5790     3683      3240      4311      2552         0     5836      2201      1835    15580    12975    13276           0         0
Net Production Value    19620    15098    11142      1689      1949         0      8894    11208      6085    32420    17025    26724            0         0



58
0                      t.            '0 0                                      00           00            00           00            00              0 0 0                  000   S               0                  
-~~~ 4 00                                       e  4                    0-                                                                          0r v O6 S                             0          o- t    
4)                                 N                  0-                                       0         -     ~      0            0             00 ~V) 
rtD  ~            0 0Ss                                       0 1;0m a  a _O> >Os s>                                                                    .<o vO   
.t ~       ~         4             00              00           0              0 0          00           00  0E4                   0                                                        0      0S"                         .o OO o E       
U0              E0 0,         O                                              08     - -                 0 Rj0  08                                                0            0          E<EX   
04          0_                                                         -   0 _0    -   -                                                        0 -0   0   0       f      E 8Rue RA-
4)4)  ~                                                      0 88  E  S     -          C X                                                                        0   ^ fi O,   S ,,^Sg V 
04   c.       ;             00              N  00        0             00 E0                      00           00 E~                               000              000             -      0        , ^ tWv^ 5X-X 
2 #X2~0                          0                                                               G0M  N  t  Tim !QX  



59
Table 14
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
Implementation Completion Report
SummarY of Financial & Economic Prices
Of Outputs & Inputs
NRs/Kg
Financial                         Economic 1/2/
Output       Seeds                Outputs       Seeds
Paddy                        7.00       10.00                   10.12       14.50
Maize                         6.70        8.00                   6.74        8.00
Wheat                         8.00       12.50                   8.23       12.85
Oilseeds                     18.50       23.00                  18.50       23.00
Pulses                       15.00       20.00                  13.50       18.00
Potato                        6.00       10.50                   5.40        9.50
Vegetable-monsoon             7.00      150.00                   6.30      135.00
Vegetable-winter             10.00     1250.00                   9.00     1125.00
Jute                           7.5       50.00                  16.03       45.00
sugarcane                     1.00        1.00                   1.16         0.9
By-products:
Paddy                         0.66                               0.59
-Wheat                        0.30                               0.27
Oilseeds                      5.13                               4.62
Pulses                        6.00                               5.40
Inputs                             Inputs
Fertilizers:
Urea                                      8.00                              11.73
MOP                                       9.20                              10.16
DAP                                      17.20                              14.44
Manure                                    0.20                               0.18
Farm Labour (NRs/md)                       55                                49.5
Draft Power (NRs/day)                     110                                  99
1/ Non-traded outputs, inputs, labour and draft power were adjusted
by SCF of 0.90.
2/ For traded commodities, the economic prices were based on the
financial price ratio between grains and seeds.



Table 15
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Price Derivation
Jute    Padd    Maize      Whe      Suga       Ure     DAP      MOP
Average 2000-2005 World Price(US$/ton)l/    316    299       109      142      240       152       172      104
Quality Adjustment(%)                      90       85        80       80       90       100       100      100
Adjusted Commodity Price (US$/ton) 2/     284      254        87      114      216       152       172      104
International shipping costs                0        0         0        0         0        0       50        50
Transport costs to Nepal Border            27       27        27       27       27        27        0         0
CifNepalborder(US$/ton)3/                 311      281       114      141      243       179      222       154
CifNepalborder(NRslton)4/               17750    16026      6509     8014    13851    10203    12654       8778
Transport & handling to project area 5/   374      374       374      374      374       374      374       374
Wholesale prices at project area        18124    16400      6883     8388    14225    10577    13028       9152
Marketing/AIC admin cost                 1812     1640       688      839      1423      529      651       458
Price exmill/depot                      19936    18040      7572     9227    15648    11106    13679       9610
Processing ratio                           90       63       100      100         9      100      100       100
Price of Commodity                      17943    11275      7572     9227      1408    11106    13679      9610
Processing cost 5/6/                       45      -45                          40                                                              o
Price atrmill gate                      17898    11320      7572     9227      1368    11106    13679      9610
Marketing/AIC admnin costs               1794     1127       757      923       141      555      684       480
Transport to/from farm 5/                  72       72        72       72       72        72       72        72
Economic Farmgate price(Rs/ton)         16031    10120      6743     8232     1155    11733    14435    10162
Financial Far rm-gate Price ce (Rs/ton)  7500     7000      6700     8000     1000      8000    17200      9200
1/ IBRD Commodity Price Forecats, May 1997, adjusted to 1997 constant value.
Jute: white D. FOB Chittagong/Chalna.
Rice: Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok.
Maize: US, No. 2 Yellow, FOB Gulf Ports.
wheat: (Canadian) no. 1, Western Red Spring (CWRS), in store, St. Lawrence, export price
Sugar:EU negotiated import price for raw unpackaged sugar from africa, caribbean and pacific countries, cif european ports.
Urea: bagged, FOB Europe.
DAP: FOB US Gulf.
Potasium Chloride (Muriate of Potash): FOB Vancouver.
2/ Commodity price equivalent in India (UP, Haiyana, MP and Punjab)
3/ Biratnagar for eastern region.
4/ US$ 1.0=NRs. 57
5/ Adjusted by SCF of 0.90.
6/ Net of by-products values, and adjusted by SCF of 0.90



NEPAL
Sunsani Morang Headworks Project                                                                     Table 16
Implementathon Completion Report
Economic Analysis (NRs Millon)
Scenanio 1: SMHP Stand Alone
Incremental Benefits
stage I                   stage 2              Total
Investmen            O&      Total      stag I   stage I   stage I    desilt  stage2   stage2    desilt  Hydro- Incremental  Balance
stage 1   stage 2    SMHP          Costs       rehab  remodel     HW     Basin   rehab      HW     Basin   power    Benefits
FY79        26.1                               26.1        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0   -26.1
FY80       118.5                              118.5        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0   -118.5
FY81       211.0                              211.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0   -211.0
FY82       132.0                              132.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0  -132.0
FY83        79.0                               79.0        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0    -79.0
FY84        99.5                               99.5        39.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       39.0   -60.5
FY85       189.8                              189.8        82.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       82.0  -107.8
FY86       318.6                              318.6       131.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       131.0  -187.6
FY87       144.3                              144.3       183.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       183.0    38.7
FY88                 46.4              8.1    54.5        203.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      203.0    148.5
FY89                130.0              8.1    138.1       232.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       232.0    93.9
FY90                164,0              2.3   166.3        254.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       254.0    87.7
FY91                259.0    12.5      6.0   277.5        274.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    15.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      289.0     11.5
FY92                441.0    59.0      3.8   503,8        287.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    59.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      346.0  -157.8
FY93                523.0    21.0    11.6   555.6         287.0     0.0      0.0   114.0   104.0       0.0   196.0       0.0      701.0    145.4
FY94                525.0   330.0      8.6   863.6        287.0     0.0      0.0   114.0   197.0       0.0   196.0       0.0      794.0   -69.6
FY95                 67.0   477.0    22.3   566.3         287.0     1.0      0.0   114.0   267.0       0.0   196.0      0.0       865.0   298.7
FY96                        499.0    20.9   519.9         287.0     1.0      0.0   114.0   293.0       0.0   196.0       0.0      891.0   371.1
FY97                         120.0    21.7    141.7       287.0     3.0   258.0   114.0   323.0   411.0   196.0          2.6     1594.6   1452.9
FY98                         62.0    23.5    85.5         287.0     7.0   301.0   114.0   348.0   480.0    196.0        2.6      1735.6   1650.1
FY99                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   334.0   114.0   377.0   543.0   196.0    30.3          1890.5   1869.7
FYOO                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   353.0   114.0   391.0   580.0   196.0    30.3          1960.5   1939.7
FY01                                  23.5    23.5        287.0     9.2   386.0    114.0   391.0   778.0    196.0    30.3        2191.5   2168.0
FY02                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   451.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2260.5   2239.7
FY03                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5  2246.7
FY04                                  23.5    23.5        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0    196.0    30.3         2267.5   2244.0
FY05                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5   2246.7
FY06                        265.0    20.8   285.8         287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5   1981.7
FY07                                  23.5    23.5        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0    196.0    30.3         2267.5   2244,0
FY08                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5   2246.7
FY09                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5  2246.7
FYIO                                  23.5    23.5        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0    196.0    30.3         2267.5  2244.0
FY11                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5   2246.7
FY12                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5   2246.7
FY13                                  23.5    23.5        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0    196.0    30.3         2267.5   2244.0
FY14                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3         2267.5   2246.7
FY15                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5   2246.7
FY16                        484.0    23.5   507.5         287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0    196.0    30.3         2267.5   1760.0
FY17                                  20.8    20.8        287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0    196.0    30.3         2267.5   2246.7
FY18                       -372.0    20.8  -351.2         287.0     9.2   458.0   114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3          2267.5   2618.7
NPV=N   1635.6 million       ERR    20.3%



62
U |      00.0...        . . .    N . .a                N . N  00.  N             NN 00....  N...
N ~ ~ ~   ~   8      0.0OOOOOOOOoOOOoOO                         
-     00a00.00000000000000000000000000 aON   00000
o   o o o o o  o o o o  o . .  . .   O,0O.  O,  O,  O,  O,  O.  O.  O.  O,  O,  O,  O .     .   O. .  I
>-, 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 
...........000000N                                                 00o   o0o 0
N,-3    oo ooooo oooooooo.o.. ... . ... .                                 d o _ w......
ol
4  g g :
r~~~~~ ~ ~ O O                           OOOOOOONNNNN NN NN NN NN N N NNN N N
0   o5    0000000000000000000000000000000000000000o o o.o.-Y . O 0 =so.o oi . o 0
66 6 6d 6 6d d
S~~~~0    0 0  =  0i  N 0an    00>   000000000000000W 0NN NN  NN 
S : 
occd   dd   000000000 Ow wO O00                                              w OOO0
X    o6666666o8 - - n                                   6d6dd6od66o
0     00000000 _0                             000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000E000  E   t   t   L   t   t 



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project                                                                     Table 18
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis (NRs Million)
Scenario 3: II+SMHP (I Sunk Costs)
Incremental Benefits
stage 1                   stage 2               Total
Investmei              O&M   Total   stage 1 stage 1 stage 1   desilt  stage2  stage2  desilt   Hydro            Incr.  Balance
stage 1  stage 2    SMHP              Costs     rehab remodel        HW    Basin   rehab         HW   Basin   power  Benefits
FY79                                        0.0                 0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0
FY80                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
FY81                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0
FY82                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
FY83                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
FY84                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
FY85                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
FY86                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
FY87                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
FY88          46.4                         46.4                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0    -46.4
FY89          130.0                       130.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0   -130.0
FY90          164.0                       164.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0   -164.0
FY91 1318.8  259.0        12.5      6.0  1596.3    1398.0       0.0     0.0       0.0    15.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    1413.0   -183.3
FY92          441.0       59.0      3.8   503.8      287.0      0.0     0.0       0.0    59.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     346.0   -157.8
FY93          523.0       21.0    11.6   555.6       287.0      0.0     0.0    114.0   104.0        0.0   196.0       0.0     701.0    145.4
FY94          525.0      330.0      8.6   863.6      287.0      0.0     0.0    114.0   197.0        0.0   196.0       0.0     794.0    -69.6
FY95          67.0       477.0    22.3   566.3       287.0      1.0      0.0    114.0   267.0       0.0   196.0       0.0     865.0    298.7                                           UJ
FY96                     499.0    20.9   519.9       287.0      1.0      0.0    114.0   293.0       0.0   196.0       0.0     891.0    371.1
FY97                     120.0    21.7   141.7       287.0      3.0   258.0    114.0   323.0   411.0   196.0          2.6    1594.6   1452.9
FY98                      62.0    23.5    85.5       287.0      7.0   301.0    114.0   348.0   480.0   196.0         2.6    1735.6   1650.1
FY99                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   334.0    114.0   377.0   543.0   196.0    30.3    1890.5   1869.7
FY00                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   353.0    114.0   391.0   580.0   196.0    30.3    1960.5   1939.7
FY01                               23.5    23.5      287.0      9.2   386.0    114.0   391.0   778.0   196.0    30.3    2191.5   2168.0
FY02                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   451.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2260.5   2239.7
FY03                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY04                               23.5    23.5      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2244.0
FY05                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY06                     265.0    20.8   285.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   1981.7
FY07                               23.5    23.5      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2244.0
FY08                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY09                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY10                               23.5    23.5      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2244.0
FY11                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY12                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY13                               23.5    23.5      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2244.0
FY14                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY15                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY16                     484.0    23.5   507.5       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   1760.0
FY17                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2246.7
FY18                    -372.0    20.8  -351.2       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5   2618.7
NPV=NRI1937.2  million              42.0%



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project                                                                     Table 19
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis (NRs Million)
Scenario 4: SMHP (I&II Sunk Costs)
Incremental Benefits
stage 1                   stage 2               Total
Investmer              O&M   Total   stage 1 stage 1 stage 1   desilt  stage2  stage2  desilt  Hydro-icremental Balance
stage 1  stage 2    SMHP              Costs      rehab remodel       HW    Basin   rehab         HW   Basin   power  Benefits
FY79                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0
FY80                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY81                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY82                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY83                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY84                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY85                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY86                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY87                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY88                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY89                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0         0.0     0.0
FY90                                        0.0                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0
FY91 1318.8    599.4    12.5        6.0  1936.7    1398.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    15.0       0.0      0.0     0.0    1413.0  -523.7
FY92            441.0    59.0       3.8   503.8      287.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    59.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      346.0  -157.8
FY93            523.0    21.0    11.6   555.6        287.0      0.0      0.0    114.0   104.0       0.0   196.0      0.0      701.0   145.4
FY94            525.0   330.0       8.6   863.6      287.0      0.0      0.0    114.0   197.0       0.0   196.0      0.0      794.0   -69.6                                          ON
FY95             67.0   477.0    22.3   566.3        287.0      1.0      0.0    114.0   267.0       0.0   196.0      0.0      865.0   298.7                                          p.
FY96                     499.0    20.9   519.9       287.0      1.0      0.0    114.0   293.0       0.0   196.0      0.0      891.0   371.1
FY97                     120.0    21.7   141.7       287.0      3.0   258.0    114.0   323.0   411.0   196.0         2.6    1594.6  1452.9
FY98                      62.0    23.5    85.5       287.0      7.0   301.0    114.0   348.0   480.0   196.0         2.6    1735.6  1650.1
FY99                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   334.0    114.0   377.0   543.0   196.0    30.3    1890.5  1869.7
FY00                               20.8    20.8      287.0      9.2   353.0    114.0   391.0   580.0   196.0    30.3    1960.5  1939.7
FY01                              23.5    23.5       287.0      9.2   386.0    114.0   391.0   778.0   196.0    30.3    2191.5  2168.0
FY02                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   451.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2260.5  2239.7
FY03                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY04                              23.5    23.5       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2244.0
FY05                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY06                    265.0    20.8   285.8        287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  1981.7
FY07                              23.5    23.5       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2244.0
FY08                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY09                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY10                              23.5    23.5       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2244.0
FY11                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY12                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY13                              23.5    23.5       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2244.0
FY14                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY15                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY16                     484.0    23.5   507.5       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  1760.0
FY17                              20.8    20.8       287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2246.7
FY18                   -372.0    20.8  -351.2        287.0      9.2   458.0    114.0   391.0   782.0   196.0    30.3    2267.5  2618.7
NPV=NRi1953.6  million              49.5%



65
oO       O    O     O fO        n O-0n               O n q-00         ot            oXo         to                  c~_s
04~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~oo           Sc   , 04            r rNNt  5fl 00-S rN 40nr   00400-Si  R4 V 04 ON
O~~~ ~~~~                   V*0N o40 o0-0~0 o440 o- o0404   eooqsS9       o9-tYn>:nr    
oooooooooooo     cg  ,, 040r0404040404040404040-4040404r S
o0 2o.0rr  20                   x2   na    022   0202020220202                 2
o ee o 000 o           ceooe    oooaoo  e o,oo eoe o eoo  acoc co   c  20od ddd>>
eae0o oooo aoe    oe o                 ece e  oo         000 oooooee 
Oeooooecooc            eaeooqcoccei0coq00040                 eeeoNNONO
~ 6
coaaecoaeeoceocoo ocoeecocoococ ecoooceaoeo
aeeocooqeqooeo          eco qeqococooe oe oeoe eo oo 
0000 Oocoeeoo               _ wt_ w *_ wt_ w __ caY -   Nc   44444000000000000
2,,.Ti ._ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      fil400--  0--0-0-0-0-0-- 0--0- 0-r-.     0e
eo ccoaoocOe eO c O O                                        O     00000 N
Y, o,oooooooooooooooo0.oo0,o   .o   .o   ,o  o   ,o   ,o   .o   ,o .o
0000000   c 0 0000 00 000 c 0000000000
Y o  e oeo ooo eqcoso   e oy y  y yy y  y yy y  y yy y  y   z
04     o  o                                  oo--.bo>o>>o>               
0.2200000000000000000000000000000000000
ia ~~  X    ooooooooo t oo   X son N 00 0-0- 0-  - 0- 0-r 0- 0- 0- 0- 0- 0- - 0- - 0- 0- 0 0-0 <-
EeX oooooocooso d ~~~O 00  000000O0000O040O0S00000000X00000000000d                    000
g~ ~~~0. T04040404040404040404040404040404040404040404040404040404N w 
0.00~~~~~~.
F-U ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ V 020202O 0   O 2 0                                 
~~~~~~~~~~~~o 0> 00                     O    iOc                              
C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~             Y          
_ ~
_~~~~~i 0202-6>oSx^ 0oo So 8202
t ~ ~ ~ 0  0 0N04000-t      ttLr              to    t -tt    



66
a
.*   oooeooOoOooooooooOaaooonSq7erfa,,400.r7 rno.M.rln nnn
fi                                    .400wo   a,os7    Ma,4r    tO t4.0 0 Orn7  4*, 0t  .40a,00 
; S C                        fi rZ r~.0M t r. C C n. r, *7n Ml .0 *7l U, r. 0 c 0  4 nrN nen n r n1
.4      .       .4.4.......          nnnnc.0M
o           O.... *oo 9 9O 9  oooooo 
0r0 0700 000  000  00  0000 0a,M a,M ooooo          0ooS        0our   077r                   00 0S
-.i   O000000000000000000000P.nr r                                       M.    oMnMMnMr orl                 .4NrNrlNN-
no c      0n00000        00000000oO   000         00 M PM000 0 10 0 0a0 ooPo. S    c   u7.7.7   7^C7r7s7 
0.2                                                         .40e  a,0a,Ma,P.P.PP.P.P.P.P.P.P.r..
* O4.4MM000.... ...                               ...
00                                                      7<^v7..................
Me 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 
0.45U r  7r.7r7.77.7rrr-rrr
3S                                    .           ........................
e e.
I   nt                                                      ...0000 0.00000 000 000 0000 000 000 000
g " c0 O 0 0 0 0 l vn..I.,4444.444444444- 
e ~ ~  ~      ~       ~ ~ ~~ ..M  MMMMMMIMMMMMM                                                                 a,,    7>,>rrrrrrZ              
e 8<                  OO0000000000000000000000000000000000000000 aItrIvI
| x    D 0      ^e                                     r 0ooUooooooooooe0W0..0.0.r.0.  .0 n .0.0 r. r.  .  i 7 .   0 i o iN , i 
OOc e7rN 7 rrzr#l4 1                                  .44444        4-I   .4.4 4.4 4.4. ,4. .4.4 4.4 4.4. .4.
s e oP7       x 0.40                                      .44..444..444..444..444..444.4.oroczoo4.
ab .s~ 04.
c-H
00    00 00    00    007 000  00 00    000 00 00 0 0
I w                                                       M    MO      OO0r00.S
U~~~ ~ ~  ~ o4                                  o                      
we                                   00004nP04MP04 07                                                 M 
4e  .4
~~~~~~00                             M0P,   .044..,0.C7,044044
V                   r27      ~       ~         0 00 0 00 0 00 0
00 MrM
a     e           Me r.o P.0 ^u 70eooi OTox                                                 g



67                      Appendix 3
Implementation Completion Report
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
(Credit No. 2430-NEP )
Borrowers Evaluation Report
Introduction:
Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project ( SMIP ) covers 68,000 ha. land of Sunsari & Morang district using
Koshi water from Chatra. Out of this 26,350 ha. Stage I and II has been developed with the financial
support of IDA in 1995. To ensure relatively silt free water and sufficient discharge even during the low
flow season the improvement of Headworks was envisaged by International Pannel of Expert ( POE ).
The works executed under Sunsari Morang Headworks Project ( SMHP ) were grouped into three
packages Lot - 1, Civil works ; Lot - 2 , Supply & Installation of Dredging Equipment and Lot - 3,
Supply & Installation of Hydro Power Plant under IDA Credit No.2430-NEP. The SMHP has been
accomplished in Oct. 1997. This report is prepared to incorporate the experiences of the Borrower on
the implementation of the project.
Obiectives:
The main objective of SMHP were to ensure relatively silt free water and sufficient discharge even
during the low flow season. which will consequently result in an increaned agricultural production and
farmers income. To achieve these objectives it was agreed that the project would
-   Minimise the ingress of sediment in canal.
-    Protect the canal system against siltation problems by installating dredger equipment.
-   Ensure sufficient power for the dredger equipment by instaling Micro Hydro Power Plant.
-    Improve the Headworks by relocating New Intake for sufficient delivery of water.



68
Provide technical support and training for strengthening the local capability to implement the
project.
Strengthen the link between DOA and Project management.
Strengthen water management practice and increase farmer participation in 0 & M.
Improve the essential drainage & irrigation facilities of Stage I, II.
Proiect Component:
In order to achieve the above objectives, the following main component of the project were envisaged.
-   Construction of New Intake 1300 U/S of old existing Intake and improve the existing Intake.
-   Improvement of desilting facilities by constructing larger desilting basin and installing Dredgers.
-   Supply and installation of Micro Hydro power plant.
-   Rehabilitation of Chatra Main Canal ( CMC).
-   Modification of Stage - I area.
-   Technical Support.
-   Procurement of Vehicles.
-   Improvement of Water management practices.



69
-    Strengthening of existing spurs of Koshi river ( 0 - 14 RD).
Proiect Completion:
The project implemented during the period 1993 - 1997, has the following features:
Construction of new intake, culvert, pre-settling basin, flushing sluice larger desilting basin and
modification of old intake and other existing components of the system.
Supply and installation of electrically driven two nos. of 14" cutter suction dredgers.
Supply and installation of 2 x 1.62 MW Micro hydro plant.
Restoration and improvement of CMC from 0 RD to 52 RD.
Remodeling of water course of Stage I area to achieve a simplified water management practice
similar to Stage - II area.
Technical Support - The consultant services for planning design, construction supervision and
design of new head works and wqater management using 60th
The expatriate Consultants, and local consultant
Vehicles and Equipment - 5 nos. of jeeps were procured under Lot - I contract. A mechanical
workshop was installed in Hydropower station for the operation and maintenance    of dredger
and Hydro power station ( HPS ) under Lot - II contract.
The following activities were carried out under water management program:



70
Establishment of WUOs in the Stage - I & Stage II area.
Intensive field training of the farmers, in water management and modem agriculture
technologies in Stage - I, II.
Training of the project staff related to water management.
Implementation of the turnover of the completed irrigation blocks to the WUGs.
Strengthening of the existing spurs between 0 RD to 14 RD.
The Costs:
Estimated total project cost at the time of appraisal is about US$ 35.7 million (NRs. 1,586 million using
a parity of US$ 1=NRs. 42.8) out of which an estimated cost of US$ 6.0 million was provided under
SMIP II Credit (Cr. 1814-NEP). Estimated total project cost at the time of credit closing on December
31, 1997 is about US$ 30.6 million or about 86 percent of the SAR estimate in US Dollars, out of
which abouLt US$ 4.74 million was funded under SMIP II Credit. In Rupee terms this is about NRs.
1,595.0 million (in real terms) or about 101 percent of SAR estimate.
Of the total IDA Credit of SDR 19.0 million (US$28.0 million equivalent), SDR1.7 rnillion (US$2.5
million equivalent) was cancelled just prior to credit closure. At the time of credit closing on December
31, 1997, a total of SDR15.8 million (US$22.9 million equivalent) had been disbursed, Leaving an
undisbursed balance of SDRI.5 million(US$2.05 million equivalent) which will be cancelled on April
30, 1998.
The Benefits:



71
The benefits derived from improvement of Headworks can be broadly listed as:
Before the construction of new intake ( NI ), during low flow season, the Kosi river has to be
diverted by channelizing the river using heavy equipment every year.
The construction of NI and culvert ( constructed 1300m U/S of existing intake ) has avoided the
channelization. The ingress of sediment is relatively less due to new arrangement of stoplog
system .
-    The construction of Pre-settling Basin ( PSB ), Flushing Sluice ( FS ) and improvement of
existing intake ( El ) has simplified the operation of CMC and at the same has facilited to flush
out coarser sediment.
Installation of dredging equipment in SB has facilitated to dredge out annually average of
3,50.000 m3 of sediment trapped in SB, thus minimising the ingress of sediment in CMC. This
has ullimately reduced the desilting activities of CMC and canal net works, which adversely
effected the fertility of the land.
Installation of micro hydropower plant has provided the required power for dredger and it has
been able to export the surplus power to the National grid. This reduces the running cost of
dredgers.
Due to reliable and relatively silt free water, and improved water management practice, the
productivity and production has increased which has resulted in increased farmer's income.
Involvement of farmers in the management of the irrigation system has been ensured by sharing
of responsibility through turnover process. Through participation of the farmers, increased
supervision of the system is exercised, which result in decreased maintenance needs of the overall
canal system. The gradual sharing of responsibility by the farmers will result in lesser burden of



72
maintenance on the Government budget. Most importantly, the collection of water charge shall be
enhanced through the participation of the farmers.
The strengthening of spurs along the east bank of Kosi river ( 0 RD to 14 RD ) has assured more
safety for CMC along this vulnerable reach.
Performance of Borrower:
The Project has been completed and put into operation since June 1996. The HPS was commissioned
and started its generation from July 1996. The surplus power was exported to National grid through
Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA).
The two cutter suction dredger are operating since July 1995 with an average out put production of
3,50,000 m3 of silt per year. Apart from the works executed under the ICB contracts some additional
works were implemented in consultation with the World Bank Mission and Consultant. The project
management was always positive to the valuable suggestions of IDA mission. The Project Operational
Plan, 1995 ( POP ) has been submitted to IDA, with assurance to follow it for smooth functioning of the
system.
However some of the problems which were encountered during these periods were:
-   There was a long delay in finalizing the design principles.
-   FinaiIisation of contract agreement, regarding the proposal made by the different contractors.
-   Handing of HPS to NEA, which is still under process in NEA.
-   Procunrement of spareparts for dredger is essential for sustainable operation of dredger equipment.
The pr-ocurement of spareparts due to rigid financial rules has been a problem.



73
Although the borrower was careful to avoid the delay in submitting the audit report, a certain
delay was caused in submitting it in time.
Some times the borrower failed to provide adequate matching fund.
Performance of IDA:
The performance of IDA has been satisfactory for smooth implementation of the project.
However, IDA failed to take into account the follow issues.
(i)   The operation and maintenance of the dredgers.
(ii)  Utilization of the increased flow in the CMC.
(iii) Bank consultant's adverse remarks on some of the project component, when the construction was
in full swing, created a lot of confusion thereby affecting the smooth implementation of the
project.
Proiect Sustainability:
To operate the electro mechanical units of SMHP components and canal system it requires:
-    Sufficient spare parts.
-    Refresher training.of the project staff especially in the operation & maintenance of the dredgers.
-   Efficient irrigation system:



74
To strengthen the institutional capability of WUOs so that the beneficiary farmers can have
increased share of 0 & M responsibility and better water management.
Adequate 0 & M budget: This is assured through POP and guaranteed by the Borrower.
Water management:
After the completion of the SMHP component adequate & relatively silt free water is being delivered
to canal net work although there was a unexpected drop in Koshi level in last Rabbi season. The mass
desilting work, which created a big problem, for disposal and adversely affected the productivity of the
land has been reduced remarkably. A random sample survey at different location has shown the effect
of sediment to be minimum, which has been realized by farmers too.
The distribution system of Stage II area is based on rotational water supply system (RWS ). Inadequate
construction of field channels is hampering the implementation of system which has to be improved by
better water management practice.
Stage I area has been upgraded with respect to stage II with some limitations. Shankarpur system has
been handed over to the WUG and water management activities were conducted to some extent in stage
I area. Stag-e I area needs intensive water management program to motivate the farmers to adopt the
upgraded system and sustain it.
To test the real situation at field level, actual water measurement is taken at selected places. Gauge
marks have been painted at all deviding structures and full supply level is marked on. Some of the areas
(less than 10% ) face difficulty in irrigation. This is mainly due to:
-     Farmers attempt to irrigate high patches of land.
-     Defective water courses.



75
-  -  Non-cooperative farmer groups.
-     Watercourses not maintained properly and
-     Placing of illegal pipes by other farmers.
Budget for GOeration and Maintenance ( 0 & M ):
As clearly stated in POP the 0 & M budget required from 1995/96 to 1999/2000 is in diminishing
trend from NRs. 769/ha. to NRs. 510/ha. respectively. As POP has been endorsed by HMGN, it is
expected that the stated budget for 0 & M will be provided to develop SMIP as a sustainable irrigation
system.
Monitorinw. Evaluation and Feed Back:
Project maniagement has established monitoring and evaluation unit under the management division.
The unit collects the field data on agricultural, socio-economic, hydro meteorological aspects of system
operation. The findings are discussed in the regular meetings of 0 & M. Flow measurement data at all
diversion points are taken three times a day during whole operation period and is recorded for
reference.
Water Charsze Collection:
The SMIP aLrea is characterised as developed ( Stage I and Stage II ) area and undeveloped ( Stage III)
area. According to the Irrigation Policy of the Government, a portion of the Stage II developed area has
been handed over to the respective water users' organisations ( WUOs ) and they have started
collecting water charge in their areas.



76
The responsibility of collecting water charge over the project area being essentially entrusted to the
project authority, the project has established a system of collecting water charge in other areas.
To support the collection of water charge by both the project authority and the WUOs, the Ministry of
Water Resources has undertaken the amendment of existing Irrigation Regulation. The amendment in
process is intended to incorporate sufficient statutory rights to both the project authority and the WUOs
that can help them in collecting water charge effectively.
Comments:
1.  Project Desi:
a. The SMHP components were devided in three packages. Two ICB contractors two one for civil
works and the other for ( 2 ) Supply and installation of Hydropower equipment upon were
engaged for the Hydropower station. This resulted in frequent dispute between the tow
contractors, which ultimately affected the employer.
b. The planning & design of the project was executed according to the project need. However,
some of the component were less effective.
-   Bottom Vanes: The debris (boulder & mixed gravel ) were accumulated along the bottom
vanes which were excavated during last low flow season. However the consultant has
suggested to watch & excavate the debris for two years to stablize it. The debris deposited
in bottom vanes this year is low compared to last year. It has to be cleared using heavy
equipments and the performance of bottom vanes has to be studied.
-   The water drive system to operate the gates seems to be rather tedious and costly compared
to electrically driven system. The water shortage in source itself ( Rani Khola ) &



77
protection of the long stretch of pipe line, clearance of debris at the Intake of Rani Khola,
maintenance of valves and turbine were not forseen.
The lifting arrangement of dry dock in settling basin is missing.
Motorization of by pass gate would have been reliable than existing manual operation.
Although the project was designed for 60 cumecs keeping in view for future extension, the
optimum power generation from turbine can not be obtained due to lack of proper drainage
of surplus water from tail race.
Communication system between SMHP component is missing.
The design of culvert vanes & other components based on limited geological informations
resulted in changes during construction there by creating additional financial burden to the
project as well as resulting in conflict with the contractors.
The lower water level in the Koshi river, than the design water level has resulted in the
Qlosure of P H for two months during low flow due to non availability of the minimum
required head.
There has not been effective involvement of project in planning and design as well as construction
supervision. As a result, the project Engineers could not receive appropriate training and some practical
problems related to water management have been completely ignored by the consultants during design
and construction.
2.  Project ADpraisal:
The project was implemented as per the appraisal and no significint deviation was made during
implementation except for few additional works.



78
3.   Proiect Implementation:
Combined efforts from the consultants, the contractors and the project staffs along with the IDA
supervision mission led to timely and successful completion of the project. However few points
are worth noting.
-   The unexpected early flood in May 1997 and November 1995 inundated all the works,
which delayed the successful completion of civil works by about six months and
commissioning of turbine by one year.
4.  Project Results:
After the completion of the project implementation the farmers have benefited substantially.
Some of the direct physical benefits leading to financial and economic benefits are:
-    Reliable discharge and relatively silt free water.
-    Export of surplus electricity to national grid.
-    Increase in crop yield, crop coverage and, cropping intensity.
-    Cost of mass desilting has been minimised.
-    Saves the cost of diverting Koshi water upto old Intake every year.
-    Cost of farm land has increased tremendously.
-    Assured power supply to dredgers.



79
Generated employment for local people.
Water charge is being collected.
Strengthening of Koshi spur ( 0 to 14 RD ) has assured more safety to CMC and command
area.
Lessons Learned:
Some of the lessons learned are:
-    Beneficiaries involvement at all levels of project development is a must.
-    Without a perennial source of water, the water power drive system for gate operation is not
preferable.
-    Shlould provide proper communication system for smooth running of canal and to avoid the
possible catastrophe.
-    Proper drainage for the escape of surplus water is essential during no crop demand.
-   Refresher training of operational staff is essential for the smooth operation of the system.
-   Farmer organization should be developed from the very beginning of implementation of the
command area development.
-   Tr-aining program for farmers and agency people should be given due consideration.



80
System should be turned over as the physical construction of canal systems and its trial
operation for one season is completed.
" Gradual coming out of the system " should be practiced.
Water charge collection should be given priority.
Aclequate budget as per POP and gradual turnover of the complete sub-system to WUG is
prer equisite for sustainable irrigation system.
Avoid complicated system of operation.
Suggestions
Human resoulces development, devotion and motivation of agency pe
rsonnel are very much essential to meet the stated objectives of the project. Training program for
beneficiaries and the agency people is very important to develop their capability. HMGN's policy is just
to finance in Ahysical facilities development from the loan fund. Therefore, grant fund must be provided
for the traLining of the project staff.
Pilot farm-ls should be developed in the area of each secondary canal system, so as to demonstrate
complete process of water management for farmers. INGOs/NGOs should be invited to do such works
of manaeeniciit and training as their administrative procedural flexibility facilitates its effective
inplerne n an'1n.
AgricultLure Jievelopment program  should be a built - in component of the irrigation system
developmenlt.



81
Communication mechanism and information sharing system between line agencies should be developed
and agreed upon before project implementation.



