THE WORLD BANK GROUP
WInfohop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/25/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data_
Country: AZERBAIJAN                              Project ID: P070989
Project: Education Sector Development Project   Task Team Leader: Halil Dundar
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 20, 2003  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 13, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m): 16.75
Managing Unit: ECSHD                            Sector: General education sector (100%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P);
Status: Lending                                 Education for all (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Program seeks to maximize learning achievements for all students to meet the needs of a
market economy and improve the efficiency of general education. The development objective of Phase I
is to strengthen the capacity to plan and manage the reform program more effectively and efficiently and
initiate the highest priority investments in selected pilot districts.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Program comprises a broad spectrum of activities, which promotes the objectives of
improved educational quality, equity in access to education, and the efficient use of available resources
in the education sector. These comprise the following components, each of which includes several
subcomponents and/or activities: (i) quality and relevance of general education; (ii) efficiency and
finance reforms; (iii) equity and access; and (iv) management, planning and monitoring capacity
development. Additionally, the project management and evaluation component would finance project
management and monitoring and evaluation activities. Phase 1 of the APL would support the priority
investments in the three pilot districts (i.e., Ali Bayramli, Ismayilli, and Ujar), while also supporting
substantial reforms at the national levels. The pilot districts were selected based on a set of criteria (see
Annex 11). (See Annex 2 for a detailed description of program components, Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown.) Phase I of the APL would consist of the following main components:
Component 1 - Quality and Relevance of General Education
The objective of this component is to enhance the quality and relevance of general education
through the following specific interventions: (i) curriculum reform for grades 1-1 1; (ii) development and
enhancement of teacher capabilities through upgrading of teaching skills and knowledge in the new
curricula and the use of new teaching methodologies (e.g., interactive teaching methods); and (iii)
provision of textbook and reading materials based on the new curricula. The Program will also improve



2
ISDS
educational quality in the pilot districts through: (i) school library improvement, and (ii) the provision of
basic educational materials, equipment, and furniture.
Subcomponent 1: Curriculum Development (US$1.87 millionl his subcomponent would
support the Government's efforts to strengthen the curriculum development capacity in the Institute for
Education Problems (IEP), design and adopt the National Curriculum Framework and prepare and
implement new national standards and syllabi for grades 1-1 1 to improve the quality and relevance of
general education to meet the needs of the emerging market economy and the social and political
environment. This subcomponent would finance the provision of training, technical assistance, and
resource materials and curriculum printing.
Subcomponent 2: Teacher Development (US$2.01 million) The Project seeks to establish the
strong links between education reforms and teacher professional development through both initial teacher
preparation and in-service training. This also requires the reform of pre-service and in-service teacher
education programs based on the curricular reform in general education.  The curricular reform
envisioned under the Education.Reform Program requires significant changes in teachers' knowledge and
skills. The quality of teaching will depend on: (i) how well teachers are prepared to implement the new
curricula and use the new teaching materials and (ii) exposure of teachers to alternative teaching and
learning approaches, especially those focusing on student-centered and active learning methodologies.
Therefore, teacher training is critical to a successful implementation of new curricula and teaching
methods and empowerment of teachers who will enhance their skills. In order to develop an effective
teacher training strategy and prepare innovative teacher training activities under the Program, it is
essential to assess: (i) the effectiveness of current teacher training programs and classroom teaching
practices and (ii) the training needs of teachers and schools based on the demands of new curricula, a
market economy, and an open society.
This subcomponent would assist the MOE in two main areas: (a) continued development of
in-service teacher training, including the mass-training of about 80,000 teachers (or 50 percent of the
present teaching force); and (b) initial reforms for pre-service teacher education. The Program seeks to
improve the standards of all training and the qualifications of all teacher education staff, including
revitalizing the concept of the "professional practitioner" in teacher education among teachers in the
schools, and its acceptance by the community.
Subcomponent 3: Textbooks and Reading Materials (US$5.60 million) The development and
provision of textbooks that reflect reforms in national standards, curriculum, and teaching methods is
essential for effective learning in the classrooms. The proposed Program will ensure that all students in
basic education (grades 1-9) have access to quality textbooks and learning materials supportive of the
new curricula through institutional reform in the provision of learning materials and direct provisions of
such materials. This will improve the learning outcome of the students and consequently contribute to
their empowerment. The First Phase of the Program will finance the development of new textbooks
based on the new curricula (grades 1, 5 and 8), while also assisting the Government in the development
of textbook policy and standards.
It is also expected that this subcomponent would contribute to the development of a sustainable
private publishing industry to support the ongoing reforms and dissemination of knowledge to the whole
country. In this regard, progress has already been made under the Education LIL through training
seminars for authors, publishers, and printers, conducted with additional support from OSl-Azerbaijan.
The MOE established a Textbook Approval Board, with its own set of procedures for the evaluation,
selection, approval, and procurement of textbooks. But affordable textbooks and other learning materials



3
ISDS
of good quality are in short supply and the state (central) publishing and distribution systems have
essentially ceased to function. The Program will assist the Government in the development of an
efficient and effective system of publishing, printing, and distribution of new textbooks based on the new
curriculum. Resources will be allocated to: (i) strengthen the capacity of the Textbook Approval Board
to carry out its mandate, and (ii) improve the system of textbook procurement in the country that will
lead to innovative textbooks to enhance quality teaching and learning in the classrooms.
In addition, the proposed Program will support the provision of textbooks and reading materials
to revitalize and update the school libraries, especially providing Latin-script Azeri resources in the pilot
districts. Additional reference material for teachers and students will broaden their access to a variety of
up-to-date books, maps, atlases, dictionaries and electronic media, including the Internet.
Component 2 - Efficiency and Finance Reforms
Phase I of the APL will support the design and implementation of reforms in the financing of
education, rationalization and school improvement in the three pilot districts. During Phase 2 and 3, the
Program contemplates extending budgeting and finance reforms to the remaining districts based on the
lessons learned under the First Phase. The rationalization and school improvement subcomponent will be
closely interrelated with the financing and budgeting subcomponent, and therefore, there will have to be
a clear mechanism for coordination between these two subcomponents, between local and central
governments, and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance.
Subcomponent 1: Financinq and Budgeting Reforms (US$0.25 million) This subcomponent
will assist the MOE to institute reforms in financing and budgeting (e.g., new funding formula and
resource allocation mechanism; the. implementation of a system of school accountability) so as to gain
efficiencies in the use of financial, human, and physical resources in the education sector. One part of
the reform effort will focus on the design and implementation of a new budgeting and financial
management system, which will focus on attention and resources on achieving key education outcomes,
to replace the current norm-based budgeting system. Under the new system, responsibility for the
allocation of funds to specific items of expenditures will be delegated to district administrations and
eventually to local schools. During Phase 1, development work and field testing will be accomplished in
the three pilot districts. A second area of focus for the financing reforms will be personnel and personnel
compensation policies. This will include attention to possible reforms for retirement, policies related to
full-time equivalent teaching loads and multi-grade teaching, a phased approach to increasing teacher
loads and merit-based approaches to selection, retention, and promotion of personnel. The main
activities to be financed under the Project include technical assistance, training and study visits for key
policy makers (including MOF and MOE staff and district education officials), hardware and software,
and office equipment and materials for the three district



4
ISDS
Subcomponent 2:    Rationalization and School Improvement (US$10.87 milTkM)
subcomponent will assist the MOE, in the three pilot districts (i.e., Ali Bayramli, Ismayilli, and Ujar) to:
(a) develop plans and rationalize the schools network in order to gain efficiencies in school management
and operations; (b) develop standards for schools and school rehabilitation; and (c) select and rehabilitate
schools and provide furniture, basic equipment and teaching aids to the schools. In each district, an
overall rationalization plan will be developed and adopted by the district and the MOE. Rationalization
and improvement will proceed on three levels. policy/administrative, human resources, and physical, as
guided by needs assessments and social assessments that will be conducted in each district. The project
will finance the development and preparation of rationalization plans through technical assistance and
training. Based on district rationalization plans, approximately 120 schools in the three districts will be
rehabilitated, to standards specifically developed under the program, an as applicable to the on-going
education reforms. School furniture, basic teaching equipment and aids will be provided for each
rehabilitated component. In addition, this subcomponent will support the MOE's plans for the
improvement of school libraries, and the provision of information and communication technologies in a
selected number of schools as part of the school improvement plans to enhance education quality in the
three districts. This subcomponent is designed to address the following key sectoral issues: (i) an
inefficient and ineffective schools network, especially in rural areas; (ii) inappropriate human resources
policies and practices; (iii) inappropriate distribution and utilization of teachers; (iv) school buildings
that have deteriorated and are in need of rehabilitation; (v) inadequate and insufficient furniture,
equipment and teaching aids in the schools; and (vi) lack of adequate standards for schools and for
school rehabilitation.
Component 3 - Equity and Access: Poverty-Focused School Grant Program (US$0.89 million)
The proposed School Grant Program (SGP) aims to supplement the limited resources of specific
schools in the three pilot districts to ensure that the poor are not discriminated from benefiting from
quality education. More specifically, the SGP is designed to provide supplemental financing to allow
schools to improve issue of attendance and enrollments of the poor, as well as introduce innovations in
teaching and learning in poor schools. The SGP will be awarded on a competitive basis based on
proposals submitted by the school parent-teacher associations (PTA) in the pilot districts. The proposals
will be evaluated on the following criteria, namely:  (i) poverty criteria and (ii) the proposed
school-based program to improve the quality of learning and introduction of innovations in the school.
Each proposal must be completely implemented in one year.
Eligible expenditures should be targeted at improving the learning environment of the students
and improving access of the poorest students to quality education without stigmatizing them. The school
grant funds can be used to (i) provide additional training other than that provided by the regular teacher
in-service training, including participation in seminars, workshops, conferences; (ii) additional learning
and teaching materials for the classrooms and library that are not standard provisions; (iii) limited
rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure of the school to ensure a conducive learning environment,
including furniture and fixtures for special innovative classes or courses; (iv) provisions of school
supplies to students and classrooms for the innovative classes or course; and (v) possible provisions of
transport resources to ensure access to schools among the poor.
The Grant Committee, composed of senior officials of the MOE, IEP, education specialists from
academia, and representatives from key stakeholders (e.g., Teacher Union), will be responsible for
establishing the selection criteria, awarding of grants, and monitoring of the implementation to be
financed under the SGP. The diverse membership committee can provide technical expertise while at the
same time allow dissemination of the new knowledge learned from the various innovations in education.



5
ISDS
Furthermore, representatives from non-MOE institutions can improve the transparency of the selection
process. The MOE's Department of General Education will function as the secretariat of the selection
committee and will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the SGP.
Component 4 - Management, Planning and Monitoring Capacity
This component would focus on strengthening the management and planning capacity in the
MOE to use available resources more effectively and efficiently. While the proposed Project does not
attempt to undertake a comprehensive reform of education management, it will build capacity at central
and local levels to gradually implement changes. Under Phase 1, the proposed Program would finance:
(i) the design and implementation of a national student assessment system; (ii) the design and
establishment of an effective education management information system (EMIS) at the MOE and
selected districts; and (iii) the development of management and planning capacity in the MOE and pilot
districts. This will be done through several major interventions through the following subcomponents:
Subcomponent 1: Establishment of a new System of Student Assessment (US$0.76 millian)
The Program will support the establishment of a new system of student assessment in general education,
which will assist the MOE in developing a reliable, diagnostic and informative assessment system of
student progress during their years of schooling. Under Phase 1, the National Center for Student
Assessment (NCSA) will be established in the MOE to carry out both a school-based assessment and the
development and implementation of a national sample based student assessment.  In the area of
school-based assessment, the emphasis will be on the development of teachers' guides for classroom
assessment in various general education subjects. Recommendations will also be provide for teacher
in-service training. This will be a follow on to the work begun under the Education LIL. Sample-based
student assessment will concentrate on grades 4 and 9, with assessment in two or three subjects (e.g.,
e.g., mathematics, Azeri language, and science).  During Phase 1, the Project will support the NCSA
through the provision of technical assistance, training, fellowships, goods and materials to carry out both
school-based and national-sample based assessments. In addition, the project would assist the NCSA to
monitor and analyze the achievements of national standards through participation in international
comparative studies of student achievement, such as OECD-P1SA or the mathematics and science studies
under the auspices of the International Association for Educational Assessment (IAEA).
Subcomponent 2: Establishment of Education Management Information System (EMIS)
(US$0.56 million) The main objective of this subcomponent is to assist the MOE to establish a
comprehensive education management information system in order for managers to monitor the system
for which they are responsible, and develop policy and action plans based on accurate and timely
information. Although the Program will support the establishment of a comprehensive EMIS in the MOE
that will be linked with the district education offices, Phase I will assist the MOE to design, test, and
install and operate an EMIS in the MOE, the three pilot districts and institutions integral to the
implementation of education reforms (e.g., IEP). To support this work, the MOE would establish, staff
and resource a unit for management and administration of the EMIS. Within the time and resources of
Phase 1, and given due consideration for issues associated with establishment of the unit and training of
staff, only three (3) priority sub-systems will be designed and installed under Phase 1. The subcomponent
will finance the provision of technical assistance, training, fellowship, goods (hardware and software) to
design, test, and operate an EMIS in the MOE, the three pilot districts, and institutions integral to the
implementation. Parallel to the EMIS effort, there will be a related effort to develop and implement plan
for effective utilization of computers (through the provision of a very limited number of computers and
software for administrative purposes) within the Department of Education in each district, as interfaced
with current operations and changes based on reforms under the program.



6
ISDS
Subcomponent 3: Management and Plannin2 Capacity (US$0.47 millioTe main
objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the capacity of the MOE to manage and plan the delivery
of education services more effectively and efficiently, and increase accountability to its key stakeholders.
This subcomponent is designed to address the following key sector issues: (i) approaches that concentrate
authority and responsibilities at the MOE and not in the districts or at the schools; (ii) systems that are
inefficient and reactive rather than proactive; (iii) lack of personnel with adequate training and expertise
in policy, planning and management; (iii) inadequate in-service training and professional development
programs in policy, planning and management; and (iv) lack of higher qualification programs in
education policy, planning and management. This subcomponent will also compliment the work done in
the three pilot rayons to strengthen their management and planning capacity for the implementation of
financing and budgeting reforms. Under this subcomponent, the following activities will be supported: (i)
management review and performance audits of the MOE and the IEP, with an emphasis on distribution of
responsibilities; (ii) a competency-based management training for a selected group of education
managers at the MOE, district and school levels; and (iii) the establishment of a planning and policy
analysis unit in the MOE. In addition, limited support will be provided for the development of the Center
for Applied Research (CAR) in the Institute for Education Problems (to be established under the
restructured IEP to accommodate education policy, planning and management).  The project would
finance the provision of technical assistance, training and fellowships, and goods (hardware and software
for the Planning and Policy Analysis Unit).
Component 5 - Project Management and Evaluation (US$1.42 million)
This component would support project management and implementation, monitoring and
evaluation, and the design and implementation of communication strategy. Assistance under this
component will be provided to strengthen the Department of Education (DER), which will be responsible
for, inter alica project management and coordinationThis component would finance: (a) consulting
services (particularly in the areas of project management, procurement, financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, and construction); (b) training; (c) provision of office equipment, software
(e.g., computer, fax and software), and office vehicles; and (d) incremental operating costs.
Assistance under this component will also be provided to design and implement the monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) plan, which will support evaluation and policy studies and other actions to
monitor and assess the outcomes of the Program against a set of performance indicators, and provide
continuous feedback to the Program management to improve the effectiveness of the Program. In
addition, the Program will support annual reviews, of the Program in meeting its objectives as
implementation progresses by Government and IDA and the provision of technical assistance for the
implementation of a public awareness and information campaign to disseminate knowledge and
information about the education reform program.
Components:
A. Quality & Relevance of General Education
1. Curriculum Development
2. Textbooks & Reading Materials
3. Teacher Development
B. Efficiency & Finance Reforms
1. Financing & Budgetary Reforms



7
ISDS
2. Rationalization & School Improvement
C. Equity & Access: School Grant Program
D. Management, Planning, & Monitoring Capacity
1. Establishment of a System of Student Assessment
2. Establishment of an Education Management Information System
3. Management & Planning Capacity
E. Project Management & Evaluation
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The proposed project will be implemented at the national level and in three pilot areas, namely: Ujar
district, Ali Bayramli city, and Ismayilli district.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: There will be minor rehabilitation of selected schools (approximately 150 schools in all) to
enhance the learning environment such as roof repairs, improved water and sanitation facilities, improved
energy efficiencies through better windows and insulations of classrooms, etc. Most of the rehabilitation
work will improve the life-safety conditions of the users of these schools at the same time improve the
learning environment of the school children in order to enhance the quality of education.
There is no envisioned land acquisition under this project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0J Yes* No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  i Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        C, Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  O Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  C Yes 0 No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are no expected large scale safeguard or environmental impact expected under the project. On
the contrary, the proposed rehabilitation of the targeted schools will improve energy efficiencies through
better insulation and water and sanitation management. During the actual rehabilitation of the schools,



8
ISDS
the contractor will abide by the agreed Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to ensure that no lead
paint will be used; lead based paint that will be removed be disposed of in an intemationally accepted
manner; no asbestos containing mateiral be used in school rehabilitation; asbestos will be disposed
properly according to law and consistent with the generally accepted disposal practices; and
construction-related noises will be set at a minimum acceptable to the surrounding community.
The 21 IDP families have been occupying parts of seven schools out of the 154 schools in the
three pilot districts since the early 1990s (as a result of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict). It has been
agreed that there would be no "involuntary resettlement of these IDP families living in these schools as a
result of the Project, even if these schools are selected to be rehabilitated and refurbished as part of the
district rationalization plans.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None
Il.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
None
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Two two-day Participatory Stakeholder Workshops were organized on February 19-20, 2002 and
on January 13-14, 2003 to discuss the Government's Education Reform Strategy, priorities for the next
Education Project, and the draft design of the proposed Project. It is also planned that a series of
workshops will be organized throughout project preparation and implementation. The EMP will also be
part of the standard bidding document and will be included in the materials to be distributed during the
workshop.
The MOE prepared the draft EMP in consultation with key stakeholders. After advertising the
availability of the draft EMP for school rehabilitation in the three pilot districts under the proposed
Program, the MOE posted the draft EMP in the central MOE as well as in the Departments of Education
in the pilot districts. Following the disclosure of the draft EMP, the MOE conducted several consultative
meetings in Baku and in the three districts, involving key stakeholders (e.g., school directors, teachers,
parents, and NGOs) to discuss the EMP.
E. Safeguardls Classiflcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[] S.- Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues



9
ISDS
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



10
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               2/18/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           2/18/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              2/21/2003     2/21/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Halil Dundar                                02/21/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Marjory-Anne Bromhead                    02/25/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Maureen McLaughlin                          02/25/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
____         I  F FE____ A   i SnC  MAP          F_M___



