Report No. PID11492
Project Name                     AZERBAIJAN-Education Sector (@)
Development Project
Region                            Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                            General education sector (100%)
Project ID                        P070989
Borrower(s)                       AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: 49 Khatai Avenue, Baku 370008
Contact Person: Mr. Iskender Iskenderov,
Deputy Minister
Tel: 994-12-937-083
Fax: 994-12-987-569
Environment Category              B
Date PID Prepared                 March 21, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date               February 20, 2003
Bank Approval Date                May 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The current Azerbaijan education system consists of: (i) general education
programs, and (ii) vocational and professional programs. General
education consists of pre-school education (ages 3-6) and general schools
(grades 1-11). Vocational and professional education includes: (i)
vocational schools; (ii) technicums (i.e., specialized secondary
education); and (iii) higher education institutions. Enrollments in 2000
were: 120,000 in pre-school; 1,640,000 in general education (grades 1-11);
22,900 in vocational schools; 42,600 in technicums; and 119,700 in higher
education institutions. In general education, in 2000, there were 470
primary schools (grades 1-4); 922 basic schools (grades 1-9); and 3,136
general schools (grades 1-11). There was a total of 165,000 teachers in
these schools.
The public education system has three main sources of revenue: (i) the
state budget; (ii) student fees in specialized secondary and higher
education institutions; and (iii) parental and community contributions.
In the period of 1992-1995, the education budget as a share of GDP and as
a share of the total state budget fell sharply due to declines in GDP and
Government revenue. The share of education budget as a share of GDP fell
from approximately 7 percent to less than 3.5 percent for the same
periods. In 1995, in real terms, Government spending on education was
only 27 percent of its level in 1992. In the second half of the 1990s,
considerable efforts have been made to protect education expenditures. In
2001, the education budget was 4.8 percent of GDP, compared to 2.7 percent
of GDP in low-income countries and 3.8 for middle-income countries. In
constant prices, however, public spending on education in 1998 was only
about 34 percent of the 1992 level. The main reason for this sharp



decline was a drastic decline in real GDP.
At independence, Azerbaijan inherited a relatively well developed
education system from the former Soviet Union (FSU) with relatively high
enrollment rates at all levels of education. At present, Azerbaijan has
been trying to retain the positive achievements of the past education
system while pursuing reform to meet the demand of a market economy and an
independent democratic state. A closer look at the performance of the
education sector from available data shows that the education system is
confronted with several major challenges, and is not equipped to meet the
demands of a modern economy, especially a knowledge-based economy. The
main issues facing the Azerbaijan education system are: (i) considerable
deterioration in the quality of education, largely due to sharp declines
in real public expenditures on education; (ii) growing inequities in
access to high quality general education; (iii) inefficient use of
available resources; and (iv) weak management, planning and monitoring
capacity at the central and local levels.
(i) Deterioration in the Quality and Relevance of General Education.
Declines in real budgetary resources after independence have had
considerable adverse effects on the quality of general education.
Indicators relating to education outcomes (e.g., student learning
achievements) are not available to examine the effects of sharp declines
in real resources available for education. Limited data, however, suggest
that the education sector no longer produces general school graduates with
minimum standards to meet the skill and knowledge demands of the market
economy or the minimum qualifications required by post-secondary education
institutions. In this regard, the results from the Student University
Entrance Examination, which is given at the end of grade 11, are
instructive to present the deterioration of the quality of general
education. For example, the poor results of many students--with only about
800 out of nearly 80,000 candidates scoring the top 700 points; more than
half scoring below 300 (the failing mark); and about one-third unable to
score more than 100 points--indicate that far too many general school
leavers fail to achieve a satisfactory level of knowledge on State Student
Entrance Examination. Such failures should be discovered and remedied
much earlier during a student's school career, while there is still time
to ensure that no student leaves the school system without reaching a
minimum level of competence in essential life skills.
The specific factors affecting poor student learning outcomes are not
fully clear on the basis of empirical evidence, but the following main
problems are likely to have contributed to the deterioration of the
quality of general education: (a) outdated curriculum and teaching
methods; (b) poor learning environment (as suggested by shortages of
textbooks, reading and teaching materials, supplies and equipment, and
poor physical infrastructure); (c) an ineffective system of teacher
development; and (d) low teacher motivation and effectiveness due to
inadequate compensation and insufficient access to opportunities for
professional development.
(a) Outdated curriculum and teaching methods. Outdated curricula and
teaching methods are major concerns for the improvement of quality and
relevance of general education in Azerbaijan.    The education system must
- 2-



increasingly foster the development of skills that support success in a
world of rapid and unpredictable economic and social change. This implies
that formal education must place greater emphasis on developing skills in
problem solving, critical thinking, and effective communication. In
addition, Azerbaijan must ensure that all students receive an adequate
education in order to equip them for productive roles in the economy and
society. Opportunities that were provided in the past to the most gifted
students must be extended to all students. Yet, the current educational
system is not producing graduates with knowledge and skills that will meet
the demands of the emerging economic and political environment. Curricula
for general education are outdated, and teaching methods are based on
rote-learning rather than problem-solving skills (see Pillary et al, 2003;
McBride, etc al 2003; and Riley, et al, 2003). Even where there is a
desire to move away from this model, teachers often lack professional
development opportunities for such skills and lack new teaching resources
on contemporary teaching methods.
One of the main objectives of the Education Reform Program, announced by
the GOA in 1999, is to revise the general education curriculum, and
strengthen the skills and teaching methods of the teaching force through
the provision of teacher professional development opportunities in modern
teaching methods, emphasizing students and inter-active teaching methods.
Since 1999, the MOE has attempted to introduce gradually a new general
education curriculum designed to better prepare students for participation
in Azerbaijan's rapidly changing economy and society. This reform has
also been supported through the IDA-assisted Education Reform Project
(LIL) that started the curriculum reform process for selected grades.
Major curriculum reform and implementation related problems include: (i)
outdated curricula for general education, vocational and higher education,
which will require the extension of curriculum revision for all general
education grades; and (ii) inadequate institutional capacity to
conceptualize, design and develop the school curricula, including: (a)
shortage of qualified and experienced curricula developers; (b) limited
knowledge and expertise among teacher trainers, administrators,
supervisors, and methodology personnel on curricular issues; and (c)
insufficient resources that restrict the curriculum development
institution to perform its basic functions (e.g., lack of financial
resources for staff development and basic education equipment and
materials, etc.).
(b) Poor learning environment. The quality of the learning environment
in most general schools has deteriorated considerably, contributing to low
learning outcomes, low attendance, and the production of poorly trained
school leavers, due largely to (i) the lack of access to textbooks and
reading materials; (ii) the shortage of basic teaching and learning
materials and equipment; and (iii) the deterioration of the physical
facilities. The quality of schooling is also uneven across the country,
contributing to inequities in access to quality schooling. Many schools,
urban and most especially, rural, lack adequate supplies of educational
materials and have poor physical facilities for satisfactory teaching and
learning.
Learning materials and equipment. Pupils in grades 1-4 are supposed to
receive free textbooks, but the provision of free textbook is often
- 3 -



limited due to inadequate public resources especially in rural areas. For
grades 5-11, textbooks are normally purchased by households, but some
parents of children in rural areas cannot afford them because of income
constraint. For example, qualitative reports suggest that only about
60-70 percent of the pupils in grades 5-11 in rural areas have core
textbooks. Moreover, the limited textbook supply tends to be old, based
on obsolete knowledge and of poor condition.
Most education institutions lack adequate supplies of basic teaching
materials for satisfactory teaching and learning. In the early 1990s,
Azerbaijan shifted from Cyrillic to Latin script. Partly as a result of
this shift, there is a severe shortage of reading materials in
Latin-script such books and reference materials to stimulate reading
habits, support core curricula and encourage independent study and
thinking. Journals or magazines for students do not exist or are too
expensive to be purchased by many poor families. Most school libraries
function as the old book storage room, mostly storing books and reference
materials in Cyrillic script from the Soviet period, rather than a
resource center for individual study. There is an urgent need to re-stock
and upgrade school libraries based on Latin-script Azeri reading and
reference materials to stimulate reading habits in general education and
provide students with resources for individual study and to open up the
whole notion of choice, variety and different points of view. Although
secondary education curricula include a course on "informatics", the great
majority of general schools do no have computer rooms to teach and use
information and communication technologies or have computer rooms which
often contain a small number of antiquated computers, supplied circa
1986. At present, about 10 percent of general schools are equipped with
new computers supplied by the Education Reform Project (LIL) and other
donors during the past few years. Science laboratories, which are
generally found in large urban schools, are very poorly equipped by
Western standards, contain mostly outdated equipment and materials
inherited from the Soviet period and are in very limited quantities (most
of the laboratory equipment in schools are no longer serviceable)
School Buildings and Building Standards. The majority of school buildings
(about 4,513) in Azerbaijan were built according to old/Soviet standards
for educational infrastructure, which are rigid in many respects and
inefficient compared to generally recognized/international norms for
education facilities. Some schools fail to meet even the prescribed
Azerbaijan norms. Most school infrastructures are outdated and largely
inappropriate for modern/effective teaching methods. About 72 percent of
these buildings were not originally intended and designed as schools
(e.g., houses, barns, apartment blocks), and had been
converted/reconverted (also largely inadequately and inappropriately) over
the years for educational use with very limited budgets. According to a
school infrastructure survey carried out by the MOE in 2002, approximately
42 percent of existing schools need substantial rehabilitation and
refurbishment due to long-foregone maintenance and repairs. In many
cases, especially in rural areas, deteriorated school buildings present a
serious hazard due to disrepair and damage (e.g., sagging roofs, exposed
electrical wires, damaged structure, absence of sewage system, crumbling
asbestos roofing materials, etc.) Many schools in rural areas lack
regular electricity. Very few of the antiquated heating systems in
schools function. Moreover, in urban areas (e.g., Baku) official data
- 4 -



suggest an acute shortage of school buildings because new school buildings
have not been constructed to accommodate a growing population during the
transition, resulting in overcrowding in urban schools. On the other
extreme, are large school buildings with very few students. The unit
gross areas per student place range from 1.1 square meters per place to as
high as 11.5 square meters per place in the pilot Rayons served by the
proposed APC    An increasing number of schools (75 percent) have adopted
two and sometimes three and even four shifts per day. Because of the poor
physical learning environment, qualitative reports suggest that teachers
and students are demoralized and have little incentive to remain in
schools. One major constraint to rationalizing the function and improving
the learning physical environment is the strong resistance to
change/modernization of school design norms. All school building plans,
construction and repair are regulated and approved by the State
Construction and Architecture Commission (SCAC). It is claimed that
changes in the school building norms can only be effected by Presidential
Decree/approval. On the other hand, it does not appear that the MOE sees
any immediacy about updating and changing the existing school building
norms, thereby contributing to the continued deficiencies and
inefficiencies in the educational physical plant. On February 17, 2003,
the President of the Azerbaijan Republic approved the State School
Infrastructure Improvement Program (SSIIP). According to the SSIIP, the
Government plans to build new educational infrastructure and has allocated
about 34 billion Manat in 2003 for 19 new school constructions, 45 major
school rehabilitation, and 28 schools extension (an additional of 252 new
classrooms). The SCAC is mandated to implement this new school building
program including the design of the schools and supervise the
construction. The MOE is responsible for providing SCAC with information
of the required teaching spaces for planning the new schools. Considering
the lack of sufficient MOE expertise in this area, it is reasonable to
assume that the existing school building norms will be used by SCAC for
planning the new schools.
(c) Ineffective teacher education and training. The quality of both
pre-service teacher education and in-service training has deteriorated
considerably during the transition, also contributing to the deterioration
of the quality of general education. Effective implementation of the new
curriculum will require teachers to have in-depth knowledge of the subject
matter and a much wider variety of teaching methods than are currently
practiced in Azerbaijan. Implementation of the new curriculum will be
particularly difficult for inexperienced or under-qualified teachers and
teacher trainers in the existing teacher training institute. A summary of
sectoral issues related to both in-service teacher training and
pre-service teacher education follows:
In-service teacher training. In Azerbaijan, teachers in general education
are required through the existing education code to undertake a minimum of
156 hours of in-service education every five years to achieve
re-certification, even though resource constraints have restricted the
provision of in-service training in recent years. Despite this
requirement, however, a recent survey of 92 teachers in the country, as
part of the Monitoring Learning Achievement Study, indicated that about 15
percent of teachers in rural areas never attended in-service teacher
training programs (MOE, 2002 p. 53). The Personnel Services Department
of the MOE prepares the schedule for such in-service training programs,
- 5-



and notifies teachers of the date and nature of the courses they will
attend. Current practice results in the scheduling of in-service
education for about 16 percent of teachers every year. This is usually a
month-long course offered during the summer months, but it may also be
offered one day each week from October through May. In-service teacher
training is provided in Baku by the Baku In-service Education Institute
and outside Baku, through twelve regional affiliates of the Azerbaijan
Teachers Institute (ATI). However, most of these twelve teacher training
centers are poorly staffed and equipped to deliver effective teacher
training. Several teacher training institutions (e.g., Azerbaijan Teacher
Institute and its affiliates in Genja and Nakchevan and Baku Teacher
Training Institute) received limited support under the on-going Education
LIL to strengthen their institutional capacities to carry out an effective
delivery of in-service training activities, but they are still considered
to have ineffective teacher training programs, and need to be developed
with particular attention given to on-going training needs, re-training
and multi-grade teaching.
Despite some recent innovations in the development of demand-driven and
school-based training models under the Education LIL, the teacher training
process is still rather mechanical, is more supply- than demand-driven and
shows deficiencies in quality and effectiveness. There are few innovative
delivery mechanisms to provide continuous professional development for
teachers (e.g., short-courses offered by pre-service teacher education
institutions, distance education and other technology-based delivery
mechanisms, school-based training, or NGO-provided training activities).
The Education LIL and other few teacher activities (e.g, UNICEF pilot
teacher training program and Open Society Institute's Reading and Writing
for Critical Thinking Program) emphasized the delivery of school-based
teacher training activities. These programs have been found satisfactory
because teachers have made substantial changes in their classroom
practices, focusing on student-based learning methods (Riley, Seashore, et
al, 2003; and UNICEF, 2002).
Despite such limited progress under pilot activities, the present system
of in-service teacher training is largely ineffective and inefficient.
There are few incentives for teachers to receive additional professional
preparation. No credits are given for attending in-service teacher
training courses, and teachers receive no salary increases or promotion
because of attendance. As a result, available reports suggest that
motivation is very low, and courses are poorly attended, especially in
rural areas where travel and subsistence costs are additional barriers
(see Crawford, 2000). There are also considerable differences in the
availability of teacher development opportunities by location. For
example, a recent study suggested that while virtually all teachers in
Baku and other urban areas are involved in in-service training courses at
least once per year, about only 50 percent of teachers in rural areas
annually receive training (Ministry of Education/UNICEF, 2002).
Pre-service teacher education. In Azerbaijan, pre-service teacher
education is offered in both specialized secondary institutions
(technicums) for primary school (grades 1-4) teachers and in universities
for teachers in grades 5-11 (e.g., specialized subject teachers in general
education). Throughout the country, there are 8 universities and 15
specialized secondary institutions offering pre-service teacher education
- 6 -



programs.
The system of pre-service teacher education in Azerbaijan also faces
numerous challenges, including: (i) separation of pre-service and
in-service and retraining, and duplication of functions among some of the
institutions conducting pre-service and in-service teacher training; (ii)
a lack of professional linkages between teacher training institutions and
schools (as well as between the teacher training curricula and the school
curricula); (iii) emphasis on narrow specialization, which needs serious
revision in order to reduce the number of subjects studied, provide
sequences for learning related to children in the lower grades (1-4), and
be sufficiently broad and flexible to prepare secondary teachers (grade
5-11) in at least two major subject disciplines; (iv) limited awareness of
the range of new and innovative teaching and learning methodologies and
the use of teaching materials and equipment in the preparation and
professional development of teachers; (v) limited qualifications and
experience of teacher training staff and limited staff development
opportunities; (vi) lack of basic equipment and materials for effective
teaching and learning in teacher education institutions; and (vii) an
oversupply of teacher education graduates produced by teacher education
institutions in certain subjects, while there are still shortages in
several subjects (e.g., foreign languages, information technology, science
and mathematics) (see Crawford, 2000; McBride, et al., 2002). At present,
the Government plans to address these problems through the preparation of
a national teacher education strategy.
(d) Low teacher salaries. Although teaches salaries account for a large
share of the education budget (about 82 percent in 2002), teacher salaries
have declined rapidly during the transition and, today, they are low and
compressed compared with the national average. Average wages in the
education sector were AZM123,705 in 1999, which is only 75 percent of the
average public sector wage and about 60 percent of their private sector
counterparts. Furthermore, teacher salaries are flat and largely
determined by years of service and the number of teaching hours rather
than by professional advancement and performance. Low pay makes it
difficult to attract high quality candidates to the profession and a weak
incentive system makes it difficult to motivate teachers to teach full
time or engage in professional development, especially outside of the
major urban areas.    Qualitative reports suggest that existing low wages
led to poor teaching and make teachers susceptible to accepting bribes to
inflate grades, or to teach below their capacity in order to gain extra
income through private tutoring.
(ii) Inefficient Utilization of Available Resources.
The educational system is characterized as inefficient in the use of
available resources. For example, expenditures on wages continue to crowd
out other essential expenditures, thereby distorting the input mix.     The
unsustainable composition of expenditures can best be seen in the high
share of education spending on salaries (around 82 percent of the
education budget in 2002) and the failure to finance basic teaching and
learning materials and capital expenditures during the past decade (see
World Bank, 2003a; 2003b). There are likely misallocations in the
education sector that are likely to have negative impact on the learning
outcomes. In 1999, only one percent of education spending was on
-7 -



textbooks and reading materials. As mentioned above, there are
considerable shortages of classrooms in urban areas, leading to about 75
percent of schools to operate on double and triple shifts. In addition,
most schools in rural and impoverished areas need substantial
rehabilitation and refurbishment due to long foregone maintenance and
upkeep and consequently, rapid deterioration of the physical facilities
during the transition. Budget allocations for utilities and communal
services are often insufficient to cover the basic needs. Schools have
been subjected to frequent power, heating and water shortages, where they
have access to these services. Inefficient school design norms continue
to be used for building new schools. Until these norms are updated
(reportedly requiring a Presidential decree), the limited government
investment funds available for badly needed new school buildings are bound
to be inefficiently utilized..
The high wage bill continues to reflect over-staffing in the educational
sector. For example, the average student ratio for grades 1-11 was 10.1
to 1 in 2002.   The means of the country averages for the thirty OECD
countries are 17:7 to 1 for primary schools, 15.0 to 1; for lower
secondary schools and 13.9 to 1 for upper secondary schools.     If
Azerbaijan were to achieve the average staffing ratio of the OECD
countries for each of the three levels of education, it would employ
thirty-six percent fewer teachers. The small number of students per
teacher in general education is the result of a complex chain of events.
First, the highest ratios of students to teaches are found in the smallest
rather than the largest schools. Second, small classes, rather than low
workloads, is a major contributor to high staffing needs in general
education. For example, the average class size in Ismayilli for grades
1-9 is 8.3 and for upper secondary education is for 6.3. The average
class size in public education institutions in OECD countries is 22.1 -
three and a half times larger than class size in Azerbaijan.     Third, the
policy of permitting teachers to teach only in their area of
specialization plays a substantial role in raising the number of teachers
employed and in determining the low ratio of students to teachers.
The above data suggest that the exceptionally intensive staffing of
schools in Azerbaijan is not the result of overhiring but rather is the
result of having large numbers of relatively small schools that are
expected to teach a complex curriculum using teachers who have specialist
training in the subject being taught. However, consolidation small
schools in order to increase average class size and improve the
utilization of teaching staff and teaching facilities would be a practical
solution for only a small number of schools. The high cost of student
transportation makes consolidation uneconomic for most rural school.
Moreover, the relative prices teachers and transportation (i.e., buses)
imply that more intensive employment of teachers will be cheaper than
busing students in many instances. The most promising option for
improving the cost-effectiveness of expenditures on education in rural
areas would be simplification of the curriculum and training teachers to
teach in two or more subjects (see Golladay and Abdullayev, 2003).
Rigidity in the budgeting norms leads to inefficiencies. The education
budget, like in the other sectors, is a line-item budget based mainly on
the Soviet era planning norms, and spending cannot be shifted across line
items or between budget years. The rigid nature of this budgeting has
- 8 -



undermined the ability of local education administrations to prioritize
expenditures and to allocate resources according to local needs.
(iii) Growing Concerns About Equitable Access to Education.
Public schooling in general schools (grades 1-11) is compulsory and free
of charge. Available enrollment data vary by data sources. Officially,
dropout rates during the compulsory cycle are low (about 1-2 percent) but
these official figures are based on enrollments rather than actual
attendance. However, available household surveys and qualitative reports
suggest that an increasing number of children of compulsory school age do
not attend school or attend irregularly especially in poor areas with
large refugee populations. In 1995, the enrollment rates for 6-16 year
olds was 91.4 percent. The enrollment rate for 17 years and above was
31.1 percent. There was little variation in enrollment rates by poverty
groupings. In 2002, enrollment rates for children in ages 6-16 were 95
percent, suggesting a significant increase in enrollment rates during the
past five years (World Bank, 1997; 2003a).
Beyond this age, however, enrollment rates drop off sharply, and only 13
percent of population ages 17-24 enrolled in post-secondary education
institutions. There are also large disparities in enrollment rates by
poverty groups. Only 9 percent of poor population ages 17-24 were
enrolled, compared with 15 percent of the non-poor. With regard to
enrollment rates by residence and poverty grouping, recent data suggest
that there is no or little disparity in access to basic education (grades
1-9), but there are considerable differences in access to upper secondary
education (grades 10-11) and post-secondary education. While enrollment
rates for non-poor post-secondary age group (17-24) is 15 percent, but it
is only 10.6 percent for the poor and 9 percent for the very poor. The
most significant disparity is in access to post-secondary education by
residence. Rural households have greater problems of access to quality
schooling. In rural areas, the enrollment rate for the very poor is only
5 percent, but it is about 25 percent in urban areas, indicating large
disparities between urban and rural population in access to education.
These findings suggest that there have been considerable declines in
enrollment rates after compulsory education during the past six years,
especially for the poor. Qualitative reports also suggest that there are
concerns about low attendance rates and poor learning outcomes in general
education, but the data are not available to examine these trends. There
is no also systematic data collection and analysis of enrollment and
attendance rates, which would also help in efforts to examine the
determinants of enrollments in upper secondary education and
post-secondary education.
Private costs associated with education in Azerbaijan, as in other
transition economies, have gone up sharply during the transition. There
is some evidence that an increasing number of poor families cannot afford
the increasing cost of education, particularly that of high quality
education. For example, the 1997 Poverty Assessment found that reduced
real government spending on critical economic categories had been replaced
in part by increased private spending for education. Since the mid-1990s,
and as shown by the new household budget survey results, real private
spending on education, some of which is informal payments, has increased
sharply. Such sharp increases in out-of-pocket payments highlight
-9-



problems not only of access to education for students from poor families
but also of transparency. According to the findings of the household
survey data in 2001, the non-poor spends six times more than the very
poor. With regard to the type of education expenditures, there appear to
be large disparities by consumption quintile. For instance, the very poor
households spend about AZM 434 per month per child for tuition and
tutorials, but the non-poor households spend about AZM 26,178 per month
per child. This finding confirms that the very poor are less likely to
have access to quality secondary education, receive private tutoring, and
attend post-secondary education (see World Bank, 2003a).
These findings suggest that the poor are more likely than the non-poor to
have been affected considerably from a rapid deterioration of educational
quality during the transition since schools in rural districts have
suffered from the poor quality of education as measured by: (i) the
availability and quality of teaching staff; (ii) the availability and
quality of basic teaching and learning materials and equipment; (iii) the
physical conditions of school buildings, laboratories, and other
facilities; and (iv) the sharp increase in the direct costs of
education). The poor also have less access to supplementary education
opportunities in the form of private tutoring and private expenditures for
basic teaching and learning materials. As a consequence, the majority of
the new labor market entrants have lower levels of education, resulting in
inequitable labor market outcomes (see World Bank, 2003a).
Gender issues in education. Gender does not seem to be a problem in
access to schooling in Azerbaijan at the general level. According to the
latest household budget survey, male and female enrollment rates are
almost equal. However, there are some evidence, based on the qualitative
data collected for the social assessment, that some households in rural
areas may stop sending their daughters to school when they reach
puberty.    In general, there is no hard data on which girls schooling is
more disrupted in rural areas and among the poor; what is evident is that
the poor take their children out of school, usually after the primary
level, and boys may suffer even more since they are the ones sent to earn
a living outside the home.
Education status of children of IDP families. Another issue facing the
education system is the access to and quality of education received by the
children of internally displaced people (IDPs) despite the efforts made by
the Government to assist them through special programs such as financial
assistance. According to the national household survey results,
individuals living in a rural IDP/refugee household are more likely to be
poor than the average. A possible reason for this may be because IDPs and
refugees did not receive land and other agricultural assets in the farm
privatization process. However, the results of a more detailed survey
focused on IDPs concluded that they do not seem to have significantly
lower incomes than the other groups in the same areas with whom they were
compared, although the survey did find some substantial differences in the
income levels of IDPs. What is clear, however, is that the IDPs are a core
group of vulnerable, as they lack assets and their livelihood depends
heavily on state transfers or donor assistance. It also appears that the
IDP population in Baku is of particular concern, as they tend to be
significantly worse-off than the rest of the population in the capital
city (World Bank, 2003a).
- 10 -



The findings of the social assessment also indicate that IDP children
attend school less regularly, and some of the IDP children are kept out of
school for a year or two due to the relocation of the family. This then
means that older children, for instance at the age of 11, are being forced
to sit next to 8 year olds, causing some of these children not to want to
continue. Most IDPs also have their separate schools with mostly IDP
teachers. In these cases, classes are held in different buildings and
sometimes in regular schools, sharing school buildings and other
facilities. In such cases, most IDP schools not only lack basic teaching
and learning resources, affecting the quality of education, but also
contribute to the existing poor learning environment due to overcrowding.
Another general issue is the IDPs moving to the Baku area. This has
created a problem for both host community and IDPs. Schools in the Baku
area are usually overcrowded largely due to an influx of internal
migration, including IDPs and refugee families, during the past decade.
Many schools were built to have about 20 to 24 students per classroom, but
many schools now have not only two or three shifts a day, but also have
average class sizes about 33 and 43 students. This has both social and
educational implications, i.e., the quality of education they receive,
which is discussed in the social assessment.
(iv) Weak Management and Planning Capacity.
The education sector is inadequately organized and managed for the
delivery of education services. Additionally, the MOE has a weak
management and planning capacity to support tasks such as policy
development and long term planning, and an effective monitoring and
evaluation system that will assess the performance of the education system
and the reform process.
Fragmentation of decision-making. In Azerbaijan, the financing and
management of the education system continues to be highly fragmented.
With regard to the financing of education, while the MOE has the overall
responsibility for overall policy and planning, curriculum and textbook
development, teacher training, and monitoring for the general education
system, the MOF is responsible for allocating the state budget for general
education through local governments, often without substantial inputs from
the MOE. This deficiency is one of the major weaknesses in the management
of the delivery of education services since the fragmentation in the
financing and management of education institutions hampered the
formulation and implementation of a consistent education policy. This
fragmentation of authority has led to duplication of facilities,
particularly for vocational and technical education (VTE) and higher
education. In 1992, the management and financing of general education was
devolved to the district departments of education. However, this process
has not been accompanied with sufficient provisions of fiscal resources
and development of management and planning capacity at the local levels.
Weak management and planning capacity. The MOE does not have a clear
strategy on policy and management development. No staff development
policy has been designed for managerial staff, neither at the central nor
local levels. Retraining activities take place incidentally at the
initiative of the department where a staff member works. Apart from ad
hoc attendance at short courses, seminars and conferences, managers and
staff are not systematically retrained on the basis of individual training
- 11 -



needs assessment. No special fund is reserved for retraining of staff and
the personnel department has not been given a role in making inventories
of training needs and retraining supply infrastructure.
The existing retraining infrastructure, which itself shows many
deficiencies, is not tuned towards managerial development. Some private
and state universities may offer management and technical courses suitable
for retraining of ministerial staff, e.g., educational management under
the Public Administration Institute, but in general, higher education
institutions lack an academic unit to educate future leaders and policy
analysts in the education sector, and to carry out independent education
policy research.
Lack of an education management information system. Another function that
is not well represented in the organizational structure of the MOE is a
Management Information System. At present, different departments collect
management information for their own purposes, but the collection of data
and information is not targeted on any systematic assessment and
evaluation of educational performance. The data collected by the MOE is
insufficiently disseminated and used for policy making. Very little
information is currently collected for international comparison.
Moreover, international standards and indicators are not systematically
used in the renewal of the Azerbaijan educational reform process.
Although data and information collection and exchange is in some way
organized, there is no clear concept of the type and management purposes
for which it is to be used. A clear information strategy, derived from
educational and managerial priorities, is lacking. The driving force
behind an information strategy might have been the Division for Analysis
and Forecast of the MOE, but this division lacks a work program
corresponding with the name of the division. The design of a good
management information system has never been formulated or effectuated,
neither by this division nor by any other unit. No work program has been
developed and implemented for policy analysis (e.g., demography, student
flows, labor market demand, teacher demand and supply, or school
infrastructure, equipment or maintenance needs).
Weak monitoring and evaluation capacity. There is no systematic and
reliable information on students' learning outcomes in general education
due to the lack of a national student assessment system. There is also no
capacity to make an objective evaluation of the schools' quality and
performance. In 1992, the State Student Admission Commission (SSAC) was
established, modeled after the Turkish Student Entrance Examination
Center, to carry out university entrance and placement examinations. Over
the past decade, the SSAC has improved its technical capacity
significantly to carry out more transparent, fair and large scale national
university entrance examinations. The SSAC reports directly to the
President of the Azerbaijan Republic, and has no experience and
responsibility for student assessments in general education. Mastery of
basic learning competencies is equated with successful completion of
grades. Nearly all assessment of student learning in grades 1-11 is
classroom-based, carried out by teachers evaluating their own students.
The purpose of the existing assessment is to ascertain what students can
remember rather than their learning abilities. The present school-based
and teacher-centered system is not providing a sufficiently clear picture
of what students actually know, understand, and are able to do in terms of
- 12 -



nationally set standards.
While the present system respects the experience and judgment of teachers,
it does not provide the Ministry enough reliable, valid and comparable
information about student learning outcomes or school performance in
achieving national objectives across the country. The absence of a
national student assessment system makes it difficult to assess the impact
of decentralization or any other reform on student learning outcomes and
the system's performance. The MOE needs to develop the institutional
capacity to assess student learning outcomes. The information collected
can then be utilized to develop national policies to address the regional
variations in coverage and educational quality.
The Government's Education Reform Program.
In 1999, the President and the National Parliament approved a
comprehensive Education Reform Program that aims at: (i) improving the
quality and relevance of student learning; and (ii) strengthening its
capacity to manage its resources effectively, efficiently and equitably.
The reform program targeted: (1) curriculum reform and teacher training;
(2) provision of educational materials including textbooks; and (3)
educational management and finance. The reform program stresses the need
to improve the quality of services to meet the needs of the market economy.
Since then, Azerbaijan has made some progress in initiating reforms in the
education sector, with particular focus on curriculum reform and
in-service teacher training, and the development of new textbooks and
materials for general education. However, the reform has still a long way
to go before being completed. The Government plans to continue
implementing the reforms initiated with the assistance from the World Bank
and other interested donors through the follow-up investment operation.
The Government plan is reflected in the draft Ten-Year Education Reform
Strategy that shows the Government's specific strategic directions and
priorities in the development of the education sector. The following main
areas of concerns have been listed in the order of priority: (i)
improvement of the quality of teaching and learning; (ii) the
establishment of a student learning assessment system; (iii) teacher
development (pre-service and in-service teacher training); (iv)
strengthening of management and governance; (v) improvement in the
efficiency in the use of resources; (vi) upgrading of the curriculum for
general education; (vii) provision of new equipment and learning
materials; (viii) improvement in access to quality education; (ix)
improvement of the availability and the quality of textbooks in general
education; and (x) improvement of the quality of higher education.     Based
on the draft Ten-Year Education Reform Strategy, the MOE prepared a
preliminary project proposal and requested the Bank's assistance for the
implementation of some of its components. The strategy covered the
following major components: (i) improvement of the quality of general
education; (ii) improvement of the quality of higher education; (ii)
development of management and planning capacity; and (iv) teacher
education improvement (see Ministry of Education, 2002b).
The Government's Education Reform Program is also consistent with the
Government's "State Program on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development
(SPPRED) in the Azerbaijan Republic for 2003-2005", which was approved by
- 13 -



the President of the Republic on February 20 2003. The SPPRED shows the
strong commitment of the Government to the education sector for poverty
alleviation, and identifies that access to good quality education is one
factor that can help protect the population from vulnerability. The
following overall strategic objectives of the SPPRED concerning the
education sector are to: (i) provide equity in access to good quality
education; (ii) ensure that the content of education is revised and
teaching methods modernized; (iii) improve the motivation of teachers
through increased wages and the introduction of a bonus system based on
performance evaluation; and (iv) ensure that vocational education provide
skills appropriate for a market economy (p. 66). The report also
identified several major strategic directions.    As far as the improvement
of quality and relevance of education is concerned, the report suggested:
(i) curriculum reform and teacher training to improve and realign the
existing curricula based on the needs of the emerging economy and the
political and social environment; (ii) improving the quality of the
teaching staff through an increase in the basic wages while reducing the
total number of teachers; and (iii) improving the physical conditions of
schools through rehabilitation, refurbishment and provision of new
technologies. As far as efficiency and finance reforms are concerned, the
report suggested: (i) reforming the financing and budgeting system through
the introduction of a decentralized and flexible finance system. As far as
equity and access is concerned, the report suggested: (i) improving equity
in access to higher education through reform of the student financial aid
system; and (ii) improving equity in access to quality primary and
secondary education (grades 1-11) through provision of free textbooks for
all students. The estimated cost of the reforms proposed under the SPPRED
for a period of 2002-2005 will be about US$72 million.
On October 4, 2002, a Presidential Decree was issued concerning the need
to upgrade and improve a selected number of general schools through
rehabilitation and refurbishment, and to construct new schools especially
in urban areas to address the overcrowding issues in general education.
Since then, the MOE prepared the School Infrastructure Improvement Plan
(SIIP) based on a national survey of 4,561 general schools, and estimated
that the cost of the plan would be around US$60 million during the period
of 2003-2007. On February 17, 2003, the Government approved the Plan,
which will be financed the government budget.
2. Objectives
The Program seeks to increase learning achievements for all students to
meet the needs of a market economy and improve the efficiency of general
education. The development objective of Phase 1 is to strengthen the
capacity to plan, manage and monitor the reform program more effectively
and efficiently and initiate the highest priority investments in selected
pilot districts.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank, which brings the experience of supporting education
reforms in other countries in the region, will continue to have the main
role for the education sector in Azerbaijan since no other donor is
available to provide either the technical and financial resources to
support sector-wide reforms. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is the
other main alternative donor who could assume such a role, but it is not
active to date in the education sector (although they had some preliminary
- 14 -



discussion for the support of early childhood education). The others
(UNICEF and OSI), who have serious budget constraints, limiting the scale
of their operations, are not well suited under their mandates to a broad
scale systemic involvement in the sector.
During project preparation, the Bank also coordinated activities with
available few donors to support the education sector in Azerbaijan. In
this regard, the Bank coordinated with OSI and UNICEF to carry out a joint
identification mission in February 2002. Both OSI and UNICEF
representatives participated in the Participatory Stakeholder Workshop
organized during the identification mission. The Program will also take
advantage of more effective use of resources by having the different
donors work in partnership (e.g., ADB) if they become active in the
education sector. During project preparation, discussions were held with
other donors/partners to take advantage of other donor activities, in
particular the work started by the OSI in textbook policies and teacher
training programs (e.g., Reading Writing for Critical Thinking), and by
UNICEF in pilot teacher education program and preschool education program;
and the IDB in school construction and rehabilitation in the Baku area.
4. Description
The Program comprises a broad spectrum of activities, which promotes the
objectives of improved educational quality, equity in access to education,
and the efficient use of available resources in the education sector.
These comprise the following components, each of which includes several
subcomponents and/or activities: (i) quality and relevance of general
education; (ii) efficiency and finance reforms; (iii) equity and access;
and (iv) management, planning and monitoring capacity development.
Additionally, the project management and evaluation component would
finance project management and monitoring and evaluation activities.
Phase 1 of the APC would support priority investments in the three pilot
districts (i.e., Ali Bayramli, Ismayilli, and Ujar), while also supporting
substantial reforms at the national levels. The pilot districts were
selected based on a set of criteria (see Annex 11). (See Annex 2 for a
detailed description of program components, Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown.) Phase 1 of the APC would consist of the following main
components:
Component 1 - Quality and Relevance of General Education
The objective of this component is to enhance the quality and relevance of
general education through the following specific interventions: (i)
curriculum reform for grades 1-11; (ii) development and enhancement of
teacher capabilities through upgrading of teaching skills and knowledge in
the new curricula and the use of new teaching methodologies (e.g.,
interactive teaching methods); and (iii) provision of textbook and reading
materials based on the new curricula. The Program will also improve
educational quality in the pilot districts (in conjuction with Component
2) through: school rehabilitation and refurbishment.
Subcomponent 1: Curriculum Development (Base Cost of US$1.26 million).
This subcomponent would support the Government's efforts to strengthen the
curriculum development capacity in the Institute for Education Problems
(IEP), design and adopt the National Curriculum Framework and prepare and
implement new national standards and syllabi for grades 1-11 to improve
- 15 -



the quality and relevance of general education to meet the needs of the
emerging market economy and the social and political environment. This
subcomponent would finance the provision of technical assistance,
training, and goods (e.g., resource materials and equipment for the
Department of Curriculum Development and curriculum printing).
Subcomponent 2:  Teacher Development (Base Cost of US$2.44 million). The
Project seeks to establish strong links between education reforms and
teacher professional development through both initial teacher preparation
and in-service training. This also requires the reform of pre-service and
in-service teacher education programs based on the curricular reform in
general education. The curricular reform envisioned under the Education
Reform Program requires significant changes in teachers' knowledge and
skills. The quality of teaching will depend on: (i) how well teachers are
prepared to implement the new curricula and use the new teaching materials
and (ii) exposure of teachers to alternative teaching and learning
approaches, especially those focusing on student-centered and active
learning methodologies. Therefore, teacher training is critical to a
successful implementation of new curricula and teaching methods and
empowerment of teachers who will enhance their skills. In order to
develop an effective teacher training strategy and prepare innovative
teacher training activities under the Program, it is essential to assess:
(i) the effectiveness of current teacher training programs and classroom
teaching practices and (ii) the training needs of teachers and schools
based on the demands of new curricula, a market economy, and an open
society.
This subcomponent would assist the MOE in two main areas: (a) continued
development of in-service teacher training, including the mass-training of
about 9,000 teachers (or 25 percent of the present primary education
teachers ); and (b) initial reforms for pre-service teacher education.
The Program seeks to improve the standards of all training and the
qualifications of all teacher education staff, including revitalizing the
concept of the "professional practitioner" in teacher education among
teachers in the schools, and its acceptance by the community.     Phase 1 of
the Program will finance the provision of technical assistance, training,
and goods to strengthen the existing teacher training institutes (i.e.,
Azerbaijan Teacher Institutes and its 10 affiliates, Baku-City Teacher
Training Institute, Genje Teacher Training Institue, and Nakchevan Teacher
Training Institute). This subcomponent would also finance the
rehabiliation and refurbishment of the four selected teacher training
institutes.
Subcomponent 3: Textbooks and Reading Materials (Base Cost of US$3.12
million). The main objectives of the textbook and reading materials
subcomponent are to (i) stimulate reading habits of grades 1-11 students
and provide extra-curricular and co-curricular reading materials
(including reference materials) to facilitate independent learning
opportunities through the provision of school library reading materials;
and (ii) assist the Government in the development of textbook policy and
standards. The first phase of the Program would finance (i) the provision
of reading materials in Azeri Latin scripts, which are currently available
in the market; (ii) extra-curricular and co-curricular reading materials
which need to be converted from Cyrillic to Lain script; and (iii) the
development of new reading and reference materials. All general schools
- 16 -



in the country will be provided a set of reading materials under the
Project.
The second objective of the Project is to assist the Government in the
development of textbook policy and standards. It is expected that this
subcomponent would contribute to the development of a sustainable private
publishing industry to support the ongoing reforms and dissemination of
knowledge to the whole country. In this regard, progress has already been
made under the Education LIL through training seminars for authors,
publishers, and printers. Additional support was also provided by
OSI-Azerbaijan. The MOE established a Textbook Approval Board, with its
own set of procedures for the evaluation, selection, approval, and
procurement of textbooks. But affordable textbooks and other learning
materials of good quality are in short supply and the state (central)
publishing and distribution systems have essentially ceased to function.
The Project will assist the Government in the development of an efficient
and effective system of publishing, printing, and distribution of reading
materials through the provision of technical assistance and training.
Resources will be allocated to: (i) strengthen the capacity of the
Textbook Department and the Textbook Approval Board to carry out their
mandates, (ii) improve the system of textbook procurement that will lead
to innovative textbooks to enhance quality teaching and learning in the
classrooms; and (iii) improve textbook standards. It was agreed that the
OSI-Azerbaijan would provide technical assistance and training within the
framework of the objectives of the Project in the area of textbook
policy.
The development and provision of textbooks that reflect reforms in
national standards, curriculum, and teaching methods is essential for
effective learning in the classrooms. The proposed Program, which is
closely linked to the Government's poverty reduction strategy, will
ensure that all students in general education (grades 1-11) have access to
quality textbooks and reading materials supportive of the new curricula
through institutional reform in the provision of reading materials. This
will improve the learning outcome of the students and consequently
contribute to their empowerment. However, during the first phase of the
Program, it was agreed that the Government would finance the provision of
core textbooks for grades 1-11 students within the framework of is Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper. Because new curricula will not be available by
2007, the Government would finance re-print of the existing textbooks.
Component 2 - Efficiency and Finance Reforms
Phase 1 of the APC will support the design and implementation of reforms
in the financing of education, rationalization and school improvement in
the three pilot districts. During Phases 2 and 3, the Program
contemplates extending budgeting and finance reforms to the remaining
districts based on the lessons learned under the First Phase. The
rationalization and school improvement subcomponent will be closely
interrelated with the financing and budgeting subcomponent, and therefore,
there will have to be a clear mechanism for coordination between these two
subcomponents, between local and central governments, and the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Finance.
Subcomponent 1: Financing and Budgeting Reforms (Base Cost of US$0.46
million). This subcomponent will assist the MOE to institute reforms in
financing and budgeting (e.g., new funding formula and resource allocation
- 17 -



mechanism; the implementation of a system of school accountability) so as
to gain efficiencies in the use of financial, human, and physical
resources in the education sector. One part of the reform effort will
focus on the design and implementation of a new budgeting and financial
management system, which will focus on attention and resources on
achieving key education outcomes, to replace the current norm-based
budgeting system. Under the new system, responsibility for the allocation
of funds to specific items of expenditures will be delegated to district
administrations and eventually to local schools. During Phase 1,
development work and field testing will be accomplished in the three pilot
districts. A second area of focus for the financing reforms will be
personnel and personnel compensation policies. This will include
attention to possible reforms for retirement, policies related to
full-time equivalent teaching loads and multi-grade teaching, a phased
approach to increasing teacher loads and merit-based approaches to
selection, retention, and promotion of personnel. The main activities to
be financed under the Project include technical assistance, training and
study visits for key policy makers (including MOF and MOE staff and
district education officials), hardware and software, and office equipment
and materials for the three selected district.
Subcomponent 2: Rationalization and School Improvement (Base Cost of
US$7.85 million). This subcomponent addresses the following key sectoral
issues: (i) an inefficient and ineffective schools network, especially in
rural areas; (ii) inappropriate human resources policies and practices
including inappropriate distribution and utilization of teachers; (iii)
considerable deterioration and inadequacy of existing school buildings,
school furniture, equipment and teaching aids in the schools; and (iv)
inefficient design and educational standards for constructing and
rehabilitating school facilities. This subcomponent will assist the MOE
to experiment an approach in three Rayons (districts) (namely, Ali
Bayramli, Ismayilli, and Ujar) to: (a) develop plans and rationalize the
schools network in order to gain efficiencies in school management and
operations; (b) develop appropriate and cost-effective standards for
school buildings; and (c) rehabilitate and provide furniture, basic
equipment and teaching aids to selected schools. It is expected that this
experience would set the model for future school infrastructure programs.
Each Rayon (district) will develop, an overall network rationalization
plan and, in consultation with the MOE, adopt and implement this plan
during an agreed period. Rationalization and improvement will proceed on
three levels: policy/administrative, human resources, and physical
infrastructure, as guided by needs assessments and social assessments that
will be conducted in each district. The project will finance the
development and preparation of rationalization plans supported by foreign
expertise (8 staff months) and local technical assistance (16 staff
months) of an economist, a social assessment specialist, and an education
facilities planning specialist services as well as training. In view of
funding limitations, the formula for allocating the available resources
among the three pilot districts was agreed with the MOE at appraisal,
using student enrolment, number of schools and size (square meters) of the
existing school infrastructure as the basis for the allocation of school
rehabilitation funds, with the respective ratios of 30-, 20- and 50- of
the total fund allocated for rehabilitation in the three Rayons. Based on
these rationalization plans, schools in the three districts could be
rehabilitated on a limited scale under Phase 1 of the program. Classroom
- 18 -



furniture, basic teaching equipment and aids will be provided for each
rehabilitated school. In addition, this subcomponent will support the
MOE's plans for the improvement of school libraries, and the provision of
information and communication technologies in a selected number of schools
as part of the school improvement plans to enhance education quality in
the three districts. Resource limitations under Phase 1 make it unlikely
that all the minimum norms (structure, safety, sanitation,
electricity/heating/water, adequate teaching spaces, etc.) can be attended
to. Thus, the MOE, in consultation with the Rayons and the State
Construction and Architecture Commission (SCAC) should identify and agree
on criteria for the selection of the schools to be rehabilitated and for
specifying the scope of rehabilitation work in each school. Asbestos
material (primarily roofing sheets) are found in almost all existing
buildings and pose serious hazards to the building occupants and to the
environment. The MOE, the Rayon Authorities, and the SCAC would ensure
that such asbestos materials are removed and disposed of safely, and under
the appropriate oversight of Azerbaijan's environmental authorities. MOE
would likewise ensure that no new asbestos materials are used in the
rehabilitation/construction of schools.
This project subcomponent will also provide resources for
updating/modernizing Azerbaijan's national school building standards, such
that these standards adequately meet and support Azerbaijan's education
reform objectives and policies. The updating of the school building
standards would be conducted in close consultation and collaboration
between the MOE, educators, teachers, facilities planners and other
relevant entities, including the SCAC. The agreed standards would be
submitted to the appropriate authorities for approval and adoption
nationwide. The approved standards would be used for designing and
building prototype schools during Phase 2 of the Program.
Component 3 - Equity and Access: School Grant Program (Base Cost of
US$0.92 million)
The proposed School Grant Program (SGP) aims to supplement the limited
resources of specific schools in the three pilot districts to ensure that
the poor are not discriminated from benefiting from quality education.
More specifically, the SGP is designed to provide supplemental financing
to allow schools to improve issue of attendance and enrollments of the
poor, as well as introduce innovations in teaching and learning in poor
schools. The SGP will be awarded on a competitive basis based on
proposals submitted by the school parent-teacher associations (PTA) in the
pilot districts. The proposals will be evaluated on the following
criteria, namely: (i) poverty criteria and (ii) the proposed school-based
program to improve the quality of learning and introduction of innovations
in the school. Each proposal must be completely implemented in one year.
Eligible expenditures should be targeted at improving the learning
environment of the students and improving access of the poorest students
to quality education without stigmatizing them. The school grant funds
can be used to (i) provide additional training other than that provided by
the regular teacher in-service training, including participation in
seminars, workshops, conferences; (ii) additional learning and teaching
materials for the classrooms and library that are not standard provisions;
(iii) limited rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure of the school
- 19 -



to ensure a conducive learning environment, including furniture and
fixtures for special innovative classes or courses; (iv) provisions of
school supplies to students and classrooms for the innovative classes or
course; and (v) possible provisions of transport resources to ensure
access to schools among the poor.
The Grant Committee, composed of senior officials of the MOE, IEP,
education specialists from academia, and representatives from key
stakeholders (e.g., Teacher Union), will be responsible for establishing
the selection criteria, awarding of grants, and monitoring of the
implementation to be financed under the SGP. The diverse membership
committee can provide technical expertise while at the same time allow
dissemination of the new knowledge learned from the various innovations in
education. Furthermore, representatives from non-MOE institutions can
improve the transparency of the selection process. The MOE's Department
of General Education will function as the secretariat of the selection
committee and will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
implementation of the SGP.
Component 4 - Management, Planning and Monitoring Capacity
This component would focus on strengthening the management and planning
capacity in the MOE to use available resources more effectively and
efficiently. While the proposed Project does not attempt to undertake a
comprehensive reform of education management, it will build capacity at
central and local levels to gradually implement changes. Under Phase 1,
the proposed Program would finance: (i) the design and implementation of a
national student assessment system; (ii) the design and establishment of
an effective education management information system (EMIS) at the MOE and
selected districts; and (iii) the development of management and planning
capacity in the MOE and pilot districts. This will be done through
several interventions through the following subcomponents:
Subcomponent 1: Establishment of a new System of Student Assessment
(Base Cost of US$1.13 million). The Program will support the
establishment of a new system of student assessment in general education,
which will assist the MOE in developing a reliable, diagnostic and
informative assessment system of student progress during their years of
schooling. Under Phase 1, the National Center for Student Assessment
(NCSA) will be established in the MOE to carry out both a school-based
assessment and the development and implementation of a national
sample-based student assessment.    In the area of school-based assessment,
the emphasis will be on the development of teachers' guides for classroom
assessment in various general education subjects. Recommendations will
also be provided for teacher in-service training. This will be a follow
on to the work begun under the Education LIL.     Sample-based student
assessment will concentrate on grades 4 and 9, with assessment in two
subjects (e.g., mathematics, Azeri language).    During Phase 1, the
Project will support the NCSA through the provision of technical
assistance, training, goods and works to carry out both school-based and
national-sample based assessments.    In addition, the project would assist
the NCSA to monitor and analyze the achievements of national standards
through participation in international comparative studies of student
achievement such as OECD-PISA.
- 20 -



Subcomponent 2: Establishment of Education Management Information System
(EMIS) (Base Cost of US$0.70 million). The main objective of this
subcomponent is to assist the MOE to establish a comprehensive education
management information system in order for managers to monitor the system
for which they are responsible, and develop policy and action plans based
on accurate and timely information. Although the Program will support the
establishment of a comprehensive EMIS in the MOE that will be linked with
the district education offices, Phase 1 will assist the MOE to design,
test, and install and operate an EMIS in the MOE, the pilot districts and
institutions integral to the implementation of education reforms (e.g.,
IEP). To support this work, the MOE would establish, staff and resource a
unit for management and administration of the EMIS.     Within the time and
resources of Phase 1, and given due consideration for issues associated
with establishment of the unit and training of staff, only three (3)
priority sub-systems will be designed and installed under Phase 1. The
subcomponent will finance the provision of technical assistance, training,
goods (hardware and software) to design, test, and operate an EMIS in the
MOE, the three pilot districts, and institutions integral to the
implementation.
Subcomponent 3: Management and Planning Capacity (Base Cost of US$0.55
million).   The main objective of this subcomponent is to strengthen the
capacity of the MOE to manage and plan the delivery of education services
more effectively and efficiently, and increase accountability to its key
stakeholders. This subcomponent is designed to address the following key
sector issues: (i) approaches that concentrate authority and
responsibilities at the MOE and not in the districts or at the schools;
(ii) systems that are inefficient and reactive rather than proactive;
(iii) lack of personnel with adequate training and expertise in policy,
planning and management; (iii) inadequate in-service training and
professional development programs in policy, planning and management; and
(iv) lack of higher qualification programs in education policy, planning
and management. This subcomponent will also compliment the work done in
the three pilot rayons to strengthen their management and planning
capacity for the implementation of financing and budgeting reforms. Under
this subcomponent, the following activities will be supported: (i)
management review and performance audits of the MOE and the IEP, with an
emphasis on distribution of responsibilities; (ii) a competency-based
management training for a selected group of education managers at the MOE,
district and school levels; and (iii) the establishment of a planning and
policy analysis unit in the MOE. In addition, limited support will be
provided for the development of the Center for Applied Research (CAR) in
the Institute for Education Problems (to be established under the
restructured IEP to accommodate applied education research).     The project
would finance the provision of technical assistance, training, and goods
(hardware and software) for the Planning and Policy Analysis Unit.
Component 5 - Project Management and Evaluation (US$1.55 million)
This component would support the strengthening of coordination and
monitoring mechanisms under the project. Assistance will be provided to
strengthen a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the Office of the
Deputy Minister of Education (Rural Education). The Deputy Minister has
overall responsibility for the implementation of the Education Reform
Program. Under his supervision, the PCU will be responsible for, inter
- 21 -



alia, coordination of project-related implementation activities of the MOE
institutional units at central and Rayon levels, implementation and
management of the procurement process, disbursements and financial
management, project monitoring, reporting of implementation progress, as
well as the evaluation of implementation experience. Assistance under this
component will also be provided to design and implement the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) plan, which will support evaluation and policy studies
and other actions to monitor and assess the outcomes of the Program
against a set of performance indicators, and provide continuous feedback
to the Program management to improve the effectiveness of the Program. In
addition, the Program will support annual reviews of the Program in
meeting its objectives, as implementation progresses, by Government and
IDA. The component will finance technical assistance for the
implementation of a public awareness and information campaign to
disseminate knowledge and information about the education reform program
In order to effectively carry out the project coordination, monitoring and
communication functions and objectives, this component would finance: (a)
consulting services (mentors/specialists in project management,
procurement, financial management, audit services, monitoring and
evaluation); (b) training of PCU and component key staff in general
operational aspects (scheduling, resource programming, Bank
procurement/disbursement practices and requirements, reporting procedures,
etc.); (c) provision of office equipment and furniture, software (e.g.,
computer software), vehicles for project supervision/site visits and (d)
incremental operating costs.
A. Quality & Relevance of General Education
1. Curriculum Development
2. Textbooks & Reading Materials
3. Teacher Development
B. Efficiency & Finance Reforms
1. Financing & Budgetary Reforms
2. Rationalization & School Improvement
C. Upgrading Schooling in Less Advantaged Rayons: School Grant Program
1. Establishment of a System of Student Assessment
2. Establishment of an Education Management Information System
3. Management & Planning Capacity
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $3.22
IBRD
IDA $18.00
US: SOROS FOUNDATION $0.22
Total Project Cost $21.44
6. Implementation
(a) Implementation period. Implementation period of the First Phase of
the APC will be four years.
(b) Executive agencies. The MOE will be responsible for implementing the
Project on behalf of the Government of Azerbaijan through the newly
established Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Under the ongoing Education
LIL, the MOE has gained substantial project implementation experience.
- 22 -



(c) Program coordination. Under the Program, a Steering Committee will be
established to coordinate the implementation of the Program. The
Committee will be composed of all key departments in the Ministry and
external agencies involved in the implementation of the proposed Program
(e.g., a representative of the State Student Admission Commission). The
Steering Committee will be headed by the Deputy Minister of Education, and
include the following members: (i) Head of the Department of General
Education; (ii) Head of the Department of Personnel Administration; (iii)
Head of the Department of Textbook Management Unit; (iv) Director of the
Institute for Education Problems; (v) Head of the Planning and Policy
Analysis Unit (to be established); (vi) Head of the Department of EMIS (to
be established); (vii) the Director of the National Center for Student
Assessment (to be established); and (viii) Head of the Department of
Higher Education. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will act as a
secretariat to the Steering Committee.
(d) Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The MOE has committed to the
establishment of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which will be
responsible for coordination and implementation of the Government's
education reform, including the implementation of the ERP under the APL.
The PCU will also have the basic capacity to provide support in
procurement, financial management, and project monitoring and evaluation.
The PCU will be under the direct responsibility of the Deputy Minister for
Program Coordinator. The PCU will comprise of the following staff: (i) a
Director; (ii) a Deputy Director; (iii) a procurement officer; (iv) a
financial management specialist; (v) a financial assistant; (vi)
translators/interpreters (2); and (vii) a monitoring and evaluation
specialist. A full time internationally recruited project management
advisor (24 months) and a procurement advisor (5 months) with substantial
experience in World Bank-assisted education projects will be hired during
the first year of implementation. (The existing PIU of the Education
Reform Project oversees the preparation of the Program and most staff are
expected to be part of the future PCU. During Phase 1, salaries of PCU
staff will be financed from the Credit.) In addition to the ESRP, the PCU
will be responsible for overall coordination and implementation with other
donors and partners involved in the reform program. The TOR for the PCU,
with recommended numbers of staffing, is in the draft PIP. The PCU will
be provided adequate office space at the MOE.
The MOE will integrate project implementation into the day to day
management activities of existing or newly established units. In other
words, while the PCU will be responsible for overall leadership,
coordination management and implementation of the MOE's reform program and
the implementation of the APL, units/departments of the MOE will be
responsible for the implementation of the day-to-day project activities
associated within their mandate. One of the main responsibilities of the
PCU will be to interface meaningfully with the departments to ensure
implementation. To make more concrete the implementation arrangements, the
MOE has selected coordinators for each subcomponent. The coordinators,
and their affiliations, are listed in the PIP. Some technical assistance
and training would be provided to these units to strengthen their capacity
to better cope with the additional work program generated by the project.
(e) Pilot district coordination. Three districts have been selected to be
the focus of various pilot activities under the ERP: Ali Bayramli,
- 23 -



Ismayilli and Ujar. The pilot activities planned for the districts
include the following: (i) improvement of libraries and provision of
library materials; (ii) installation of computer laboratories into
selected schools and implementation of a pilot ICT program; (iii)
development and initial implementation of financing and budgeting reforms
(Component 2); (iv) development and initial implementation of district
rationalization plans; (v) rehabilitation and refurbishment of selected
schools; and provision of basic furniture, equipment and teaching aids to
the rehabilitated schools; (vi) implementation of the School Grant Program
(Component 3); and (vii) development and implementation of training
programs in management and administration.    As part of the coordination
and implementation of the ERP, a small district coordination unit will be
established in each pilot district in the Department of Education. The
coordinator will be working closely with the PCU and the National
Coordinator.
(f) Flow of funds. To facilitate timely implementation of project
activities, the Government will establish a Special Account in the
International Bank of Azerbaijan to be managed by the MOE's Project
Coordination Unit. In addition, a Project Account in local currency will
be opened to facilitate payment for project expenditures financed from
counterpart funds. The Ministry of Finance will initially deposit
US$100,000 in the Project Account to cover contractual obligations, with
replenishment made as this amount is drawn down. The administration of
the Special Account and the Project Account, including preparation of
withdrawal applications and replenishment of the accounts, will be the
responsibility of the PCU.
7. Sustainability
Political. In 1998 the GOA initiated the education reform program process
and requested the Bank's assistance to support the Government's education
reform efforts (see Section D.4 for indications of borrower commitment and
ownership). Since then, IDA has been supporting the Government's reform
efforts through the ongoing Education LIL, which has assisted
substantially the MOE in the design and implementation of a Bank-assisted
project. At present, there is a clear strong commitment to the objectives
of the proposed Education Reform Program at all levels of the Government.
The proposed Program is also consistent with the State Program on Poverty
Reduction and Economic Development (SPPRED), which has been recently
published, to ensure that the country's projected economic growth is
accompanied by significant poverty reduction. The SPPRED shows the strong
commitment of the Government to education reform, which is considered as
one of the main factors contributing to poverty reduction in the
country.   The risks related to the political sustainability of the
Project are therefore minimal.
Institutional. There is a strong commitment to the project development
objectives in the MOE at central and local levels. The more important
sustainability issue at the MOE level is the challenge to mainstream
project activities into the MOE's core activities and increase the sense
of project ownership of key units and departments in the MOE. In this
regard, the Program will experiment with different ways of increasing the
sense of project ownership. First, the proposed implementation
arrangements will aim to integrate the Project's activities into the
mainstream activities of the MOE. The close parallels between the Bank's
- 24 -



assessment of priority reform areas and the MOE's are also encouraging.
Second, the Program will also rely on the existing MOE units to implement
project activities by strengthening their implementation capacity. The
establishment of new units are supported only when the MOE does not have
such units.
Financial.   At present, the economic environment for education reform in
Azerbaijan is not good. However, prospects for substantial economic
expansion over the next two decades are bright. The commercial
development of the nation's oil reserves is likely to increase gross
national production by US$20 to US$25 billion over the next fifteen
years. The parallel adoption of sound economic policies could result in a
growth in incomes of 12 to 15 percent a year, leading to a five to
eight-fold increase in total output over the next fifteen years. However,
such a high rate of growth would require not only excellent economic
management, but also very favorable international economic conditions,
including high and stable oil prices. A three-fold increase in output per
capita appears more likely, implying that by 2018, Azerbaijan would have
reached the level of prosperity currently prevailing in such countries as
Turkey, Brazil, Latvia and Thailand.
Despite such prospects for substantial economic expansion, those revenues
will not have a large impact on the budget for 5-8 years, and there are
issues of fiscal sustainability before then. Nevertheless, as Section E.1
shows, it is estimated that the fiscal impact of Phase 1 of the Program on
Government's recurrent costs for education is very small (e.g., less than
0.1 percent of the MOE's recurrent expenditures in 2002). An economic and
fiscal analysis study will also examine the Project interventions and
proposed systemic reforms in the fiscal context during the course of
project implementation.
Civil service salaries (including Ministry officials) are generally very
low and have often been as one of the conributing factors for the lack of
incentives for key staff in line units to effectively implement the
Education LIL during the past three years. Unless the civil service
salary structure is reformed, it is expected that there continues to be
lack of incentives and the sense of ownership of the project for some key
staff in line units, despite the introduction of some risk mitigation
measures to address this risk.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project builds upon the Education Reform Project (LIL), which began in
September 1999. The Education LIL provides many lessons--some good and
some bad--which are reflected in the design of the proposed Program. In
addition, lessons learned from other countries implementing education
reforms are taken into consideration in the present design.
(a) Project Ownership and Commitment to Education Reform.
Continuity and commitment of senior Ministry and PIU staff during project
life are key to project success. One lesson learned during the
implementation of the Education Reform Project (LIL) is the need for the
Ministry to accept responsibility for the reform process and take
ownership of the project implementation. During the initial
implementation period, the MOE mistakenly believed that the project was a
- 25 -



World Bank project to be implemented by a PIU. The lack of involvement of
key implementing units in the initial design of the project and a lack of
understanding of their responsibility for project implementation led to a
weak project implementation. Only in the middle of implementation did the
MOE start to take ownership of project implementation. Under the proposed
Project, there is still substantial risk about the ownership of key line
units in the implementation of the Project even though various measures
(such as coaches/mentors and professional development opportunities) for
the line Directors will be introduced.    It is important that the MOE take
ownership of the process during project preparation and absorb the PIU (or
the PCU) into the MOE organizational structure. It is, therefore,
important to: (i) involve all the key implementing units and individuals
at an early stage of project development to ensure commitment; (ii) carry
out substantive sector dialogue, including ESW; (iii) organize frequent
supervision missions during project implementation to identify
implementation issues early; and (iv) prepare a detailed implementation
plan prior to the effectiveness of the project, so that all the key
stakeholders are aware of the objectives of the project, specific
activities and timetable. Reform affects all stakeholders and everyone
must own the processes to ensure success.
An important ingredient in a durable commitment to education reform is to
allow participation of stakeholders in defining the proposed Program. In
this way, the Government's priorities and other stakeholders' interests
are taken into the project design and they start to own the reform. The
quality, impact and sustainability of the Project are considerably
enhanced when project concept and objectives are based on Borrower
priorities and stakeholder consensus, and the key implementing units are
directly involved in all stages of project design and implementation. A
particular strength of the Education Reform Project (LIL) was that it
reflected the Borrower's priorities in the areas of curriculum reform and
teacher training. The Minister of Education and senior Ministry officials
emphasized the teaching and learning process with particular focus on the
introduction of new curricula and teaching methods (i.e., interactive
teaching methods) in pilot schools and pilot teacher training institutes.
Under the Program, efforts to build dialogue and partnership in design and
strategic choices for investment have been made through the preparation of
the Government's Ten-Year Education Reform Strategy and a stakeholder
workshop. The MOE also established a Working Group to continue the
preparation of the project design. Efforts to discuss and disseminate
ideas to different stakeholders will continue during project preparation.
(b) Simplicity in Project Design and Flexibility.
Education reform is a complex process. Based on experiences and knowledge
learned from the recent reforms being carried out in England, Chile,
Moldova, and other countries in the region, projects supported by the
World Bank need to be highly focused and limited during the early stages
of the reform. Functioning organizations and institutions must be
upgraded and most important, their capacities strengthened to carry out
the various processes to implement the reforms. With this in mind, the
scope of the proposed Program has been limited and emphasis will be given
to ensuring the organizations and institutions in the education sector
will be able to carry out its mandate of reforming the system of education
in Azerbaijan. The lessons learned from the Education LIL necessitated
- 26 -



simplicity in the project design and focus. Given the weak implementation
capacity of the MOE, simplicity and clarity in design and flexibility in
implementation is essential to ensure a successful project. Instead of a
comprehensive systemic reform, the proposed Project will only expand the
ongoing curriculum reform to all grade levels in the general education
while at the same time build and strengthen the support organizations and
institutions that are involved in the sector. The capacity of these
organizations and institutions, especially that of the MOE, will be built
slowly but consistently over time throughout the project implementation
period. The management and planning capacity of the MOE and local levels
will be strengthened through training programs supported under the
proposed Program. In this way, the country's education system will have
the necessary foundation to implement the contemplated reforms in the
other parts of the system.
(c) Building Project Management Capacity at the Earliest Time.
Implementation of World Bank-assisted project tends to be perceived as
extremely complex because of the requirements and procedures to meet the
Borrower's fiduciary responsibilities. The Education LIL was the first
Bank-assisted education project in the country. In the initial years,
there was a high turnover of the PIU staff under the LIL that undermined
the efforts to improve the project management capacity to implement the
LIL in a timely manner. Project team leadership and procurement were
major areas of concerns caused by the inexperience of the Borrower in
dealing with the World Bank as an institution. Despite this high turnover
rate, the lessons learned under the Education LIL reaffirms the need to
pay particular attention to issues of governance and the need to invest in
training both PIU and MOE staff in Bank procedures. Additional training
will be provided in project management and procurement to strengthen
further the implementation capacity of the MOE. One project management
lesson learned under the LIL is to have an experienced internationally
recruited project implementation and procurement adviser who can directly
assist the Project Implementation Unit. In addition, this adviser can
impart modern project management skills to the PIU and MOE. A project
implementation specialist and a procurement adviser will be employed for
at least a year to assist the PCU and MOE implement the Program.
Another critical project management area that needs to be addressed is the
management of technical assistance, especially consultant services
employed by the Project. The Borrower tends to perceive foreign experts
to be relatively expensive and have little value added. This perception
is caused by the lack of knowledge and experience in dealing with
technical assistance. Based on the lessons learned under the present
Project, the MOE has already started to better utilize this valuable human
resource. Additional training will be provided in the selection and
supervision of consultants to ensure that the knowledge brought by these
foreign experts can be made useful and the country can build its knowledge
capacity.
(d) Institutional Arrangements in Implementing a Project.
A lesson learned under the Education LIL showed that capacity building
within the MOE is served best by trying to integrate the project
management into the overall operations of the Ministry. There are risks
- 27 -



in this arrangement that can possibly slow implementation, require more
oversight and project management, but the pay-off in terms of ownership,
impact and sustainability appears to be high. The weak capacity in the
MOE made it difficult to separate the responsibilities of the PIU
established under the LIL, from those of the MOE and its associated
units. There was a time when the PIU was perceived, rightly or wrongly,
to be implementing the education reform program (i.e., curriculum reform
and teacher education) because of the lack of involvement of key
implementing units (e.g., Institute for Education Problems, Pilot Teacher
Training Institutes). In addition, the lack of clearly defined roles and
responsibilities and inadequate incentives have made it virtually
impossible to internalize responsibility for project implementation of the
various components within the MOE and its associated units.
Under the proposed Program, the PIU (which will be called the Project
Coordination Unit) will only coordinate project activities and be
accountable for the fiduciary responsibilities required by the Project.
This is consistent with the ECA recommended guidelines in the
establishment of PIUs. The MOE and its associated units (e.g., the
Institute for Education Problems, Teacher Training Institutes) will
implement the proposed project activities. The roles and responsibilities
of the key implementing units and individuals will be agreed during
appraisal. An agreed detailed Project Implementation Plan with all
implementing units will be a condition of Negotiations.
Under the proposed Program, the existing PIU staff will be incorporated
into a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the Deputy Minister of
Education. The PCU's principal functions will be to facilitate the flow
of Credit and Project resources to the component implementing entities,
conduct and manage the fiduciary aspects (procurement and financial
management processes), and monitor and report on implementation progress.
This is consistent with the ECA recommended guidelines in the
establishment of PIUs. The MOE and its associated units (e.g., the
Institute for Education Problems, Teacher Training Institutes) will
implement the proposed project activities. The roles and responsibilities
of the key implementing units and individuals will be agreed during
appraisal. An agreed detailed Project Implementation Plan with all
implementing units will be presented by the Borrower at Negotiations.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The Project will finance the rehabilitation and
refurbishment of the schools in the three pilot districts (i.e., Ali
Bayramli, Ismayilli, and Ujar), where there is a total of 150 general
schools. The majority of these schools were built using asbestos roofing
material which have become deteriorated exacerbated by long foregone
maintenance and building repairs. These deteriorating asbestos materials
present a health hazard to the occupants and an environmental risk. The
individual schools to be rehabilitated will not have been identified a
priori, but they will be selected for rehabilitation on the basis of the
district rationalization plans to be prepared under the Project. However,
with regard to the refurbishment and rehabilitation of the schools, the
Government has prepared an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) (as
described in Annex 11 and included in the PIP), which the PCU will ensure
is carried out.
- 28 -



10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Halil Dundar
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-0793
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 29 -



