F     P^I)ST              RESTRICTED
i¶   E   t&ri1                   Report No. P-329
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be. published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
IN THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
July 1, 1963



INTERNATIONAL BANK FCR
RECONSTRUCTICN A-ND DEVELCPMENT
REPORT MAD RE C OI1ENDATTONS
OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ThSTITUTO CCSTARRICENSE
DE ELECTRICIDAID IN THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
1.        1 submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to S22.0 million to the
Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE), an autonomous agency of the
Government of Costa Rica, to help finance the foreign exchange costs of
(a) its power expansion program for 1963466, and (b) the construction of
a modern telecormmnication system.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        ICE was established in 1949 to plan and carry out a coordinated
program of electrification of the country. In 1958 it was given, in addi-
tion, the responsibility of providing telecommunication services in Costa
Pica, but it did not enter into this field until 1962.
3.        The proposed loan would be the second Bank loan to ICE.   The
first, in an amount of $8.5 million, was made in 1961 to help finance the
ccnstruction of the 30 '2fQ Rio Macho hydroelectric olant, the 8 K4 Colima
diesel electric plant, and transmission facilities.
4.        A Bank mission visited Costa Rica in February 1963 to appraise
the proposed project. Negotiations took place from May 20 to May 29, 1963
in Washington. The Government was represented by ITr. Rufino Gil, from the
Emibassy of Costa Rica in Washington; ICE was reoresented by Mr. Joaqufn
Alberto Fern6ndez, Deputy Manager, and Fernando Runnebaum, member of the
Board of Directors.
5.        The proposed loan would increase the Bank's lending in Costa Ri-
ca to $47.8 million equivalent. Previously the Bank made the following
loans in Costa Rica:



-2-
Year                                                             Amount /
of     Borrower                       Purpose                (equivalent in
Loan                                                           U.S. $ million)
1956    Banco Central de Costa Rica   Agricultural development      3.0
and light industry
1959    Banco Central de Costa Rica   Agricultural development
and light industry         3.5
1960    Banco Central de Costa Rica    Industrial equipment         2.0
1961    ICE                           Electric power
development                8.8
1961    Banco Central de Costa Rica   Industrial equipment          3.0
1961    Republic of Costa Rica        Road construction and
maintenance
Total                                                              25.8 2/
of which has been repaid                                          4.6
Total now outstanding                                              21.2
Amount sold                           2.7
of which has been repaid            1.9                            .8
Net amount now held by Bank                                        20.4
j/ As of May 31, 1963.
2/ Includes $9.1 million not yet disbursed.
6.        IDA has so far extended one development credit to Costa Rica, in
the amount of $5.5 million, signed on October 31, 1961, to help finance a
highway project which is now under way.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        The proposed loan would have the following characteristics:
Borrower:       Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad, an autonomous
agency of the Government of Costa Rica.
Guarantor:      Republic of Costa Rica.
Amount:         The equivalent, in various currencies, of $22.0 million.



- 3 -
To finance the foreign exchange cost of
(a) the 56 MW Cachi hydroelectric plant and associated
transmission facilities; and
(b) automatic exchange equipment for 26,000 telephone
lines, cables, line networks and radio equipment for
interurban connections.
Security:        A mortgage on certain properties of ICE.
Amortization:    39 semi-annual instalments starting Sentember 1, 1967.
Interest Rate:   5-1/2% per annum, including 1% comnission.
Commitment
Charge:        3/4 of 1% per annum.
Payment Dates:   March 1 and September 1.
PART III - LEGAL INSTRU?ENTS
8.        Attached are a draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ICE
(No. 1), a draft Guarantee Agreement between Republica de Costa Rica and
the Bank (No. 2) and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4, (iii) of the Articles of Agreement (No. 3). The draft
Loan and Guarantee Agreements conform generally with the Bank's pattern
of such agreements for utility projects.
9.        The following provisions of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements
are of special interest:
(a)  Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement contains a limita-
tion on borrowing. The borrower may not incur debt unless
its revenues, with certain adjustments, would be at least
1.5 times maximum future debt service including the debt
to be incurred.
(b) Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.06
of the draft Guarantee Agreement are designed to ensure
that such power and telecommunication rates will be charged
so as to provide revenues sufficient to cover operating ex-
penses, debt service, end to create a surnlus for financing
a reasonable portion of planned expansion.
(c)  Article VI of the draft Loan Agreement contains an undertaking
of ICE to establish a mortgage in favour of the Bank on cer-
tain properties after ICE has obtained title to such prop-
erties.



- 4 -
(d) Section 8.01 of the draft Loan Agreemnent specifies as ad-
ditional conditions of effectiveness exoected to be met
within 90 days after the signing of the oroposed loan that
i) ICE shall have obtained a local currency loan in the
amount of ,01 million; and
ii) the properties used or to be used for the ccnstruction
of the hydroelectric olant have been declared exuropri-
ated by Presidential decree, or ICE shall have obtained
title to such properties by way of negotiations with
the present owners.
PART IV - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
Justification of the Project
10.       A detailed appraisal of the Project (TO Report No. 365) is
attached (No. 4).
11.       An adequate supply of electric power and a modern telecommuni-
cations system have become increasingly important in Costa Ricals economic
development. The main problem that has been confronting Costa Rica for
the last few years has been to maintain a growth of national income suf-
ficient to keep pace with the very fast increase in poDulation (about 4.3%
a year) in the face of unfavorable export markets for its major Droductions
--- coffee and bananas. To achieve this growth, the aovernment has placed
special emphasis on expanding production of staple foodstuffs, in which
the country is now self-sufficient, and more recently on manufacturing in-
dustrial goods both for the local market and also for the Central American
Common 1%arket, which Costa Rica joined in 1961. For this increasing in-
dustrialization and expansion of internal and regiDnal trade, electric
power and telecommunications are of prime importance.
12.       Total sales of energy by ICE have increased during the period
1956-62 at the average rate of almost 9% per annum. Taking into acccunt
the more rapid further industrialization already under way, the average
annual increase during 1963-66 is estimated at 12.55S, and during 1967-72
at 7%.  The Cachi hydroelectric plant to be financed by the proposed loan
is the most economic means of meeting this continued growth of demand.
Assuming that the equipment can be ordered in August 1963, the new plant
could be scheduled for operation by the end of 1965. Purther additions of
generating capacity will be necessary before the end of 1968.
13.       The existing telephone installations in Costa Rica have for
many years been insufficient to meet the increasing demand for telephone
service; they are badly overloaded, and obsolete. Although the concession
rights, presently held by ComnaMIa Nacional de Fuerza y Luz (CNFL), a sub-
sidiary of American and Toreign Power, do not expire before 1967, CNFL
agreed to sell its telephone installations to ICE in order to facilitate
the establishment of a national organization. The proDosed loan vi 11 help
ICE to finance the first stage of a modern and efficient telecommunications
system. The program has been reviewed by the experts retained by the Bank



to carry oat the UIN Special F[knd study of telecorrmunication needs in Central
America and Panama. The p)rcject consists of a newa autTomatic exchange
equinment for 26,000 telerhone lines, cables and line network and radio
equinrient for interurban connections. WIimo the applications for new sub-
scriptions already or hand, and allo--ing for the additienal apW§cazicris
that can be expected during the two years before service can be provided,
the canacity of the new systen is likely to be fally utilized shortly after
it will go into operation in 1966. Further expansion of the system will
be needed 'y 1967.
ICE's Firancial Positiorn and Finarncial Arrancmments for the Protect
14.       S3ince the Bank xade its first loan to ICE, in 1961, its Aihole-
s>e rates have aoean increaeed by 33< and its retail rates by 40.0<  As a
result, ICE's financial position has been much inproved. The rate of re-
turn on net fixed assets in oneration, which was only 3.8% in 1°960, has
i-ncreasad to 6.6% in 1962. IC] has agreed to further rate increases to
achieve ard rnainMin in the future a rate of return of 7.5%. Withl sucb a
rate of return the irterna. cash generatioln is expected to rontribute at
least 2&-Y- of the total requirements of funds during the construction period
or the nrojeot.  In later years, this contribution to further expansion
shculd reach about 30%.
15.       The total cost of the pronesed project is estimated at the equiv-
alont of' about $36 million. The fDreign component including interest during
construction is about $22 million equivalent and would be covered by the
protosed loan.  In order to give the Bank equal treatment xith other ICE
creditors, this lean will be secured by a mortgage on certain pronerties
of -iho Institute.  The local currency cciorxnart would he enti-rely prov'ided
by internal generation of cash, except for g10 mRillion (equivalent to h1.5
milion), ifor which ICE has negotiated, but nct yet signed, a medium-term
loan froc. the Caja de Seguro Social.
&xecution of the Project
16.       The orgarization of IG is adequate and its management well qual-
if ted to car;ry out the project. Indivvidual consulting engineers have been
engaged to design snecific parts of the power part of the project. As for
the telecormunication part, ICE will obtain the assistance of oualified
organizations for completing the detailed nlanning, preparing  eeifications
reviewing and comparing bids and supervising the construction. Contracts
for zivil works and for equipmentt and naterials will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
Throne SkO.i ttuat ion
17.       A report on "The Crrent Economic Position and Prospects cf Cos-
tae Rica" (a 63-50) was circulated on May 2%, 1963. It moints out that
since 1255 Costa Rica's foreign currency earnings have not increased suf-
ficiently to maintain a level of investments sufficient to produce a growth
of income that would match the extraordinarily rapid increase of population.
The pressure of populatioh has, at the same time, pushed government expend-
itures steadily lpwards. With no comparable growth in revenues, large



- 6 -
fiscal deficits resulted in 1961 and 1962. The decrease in public savings,
coupled with the Government's investments to diversify the economy and en-
dow it with an adequate infrastructure, has led to an increasing pro-
portion of development works being financed from abroad. The external
debt has doubled in three years to reach $89 million in 1962. The service
on this debt for 1963 will be equivalent to about 13% of forecast foreign
exchange earnings, but is expected to fall to about 9% of forecast foreign
exchange earnings in 1967, when the first maturity on the proposed loan
will be due.
18.       ProsDects for the coming years, however, are encouraging.   A
moderate growth of foreign exchange earnings can be expected, due partly
to prosnective increases in exports of bananas and cattle, and of industrial
goods to other Central American countries. Also, the Costa Rican author-
ities have been taking steps to improve the fiscal position and limit the
future debt burden: consumption taxes were increased and the income tax
administration was tightened in 1962, helping to reduce the budgetary defi-
cit noticeably from the peak reached in 1961: the Government is at pres-
ent considering the introduction of new taxes. Furthermore, a Planning
Office has recently been established with the purpose of improving develop-
ment planning and coordinating public investments, including external
nublic borrowing. The banking authorities are intensifying their efforts
to assist in diversifying the economy and increasing production for the
local rarket.
19.       The attention of the Costa Rican authorities has been called to
the necessity of further intensifying their efforts to achieve fiscal
stability in order to cope with the substantial demand for funds for de-
velopment projects. Development projects planned for the next three
years amount to more than $100 million (including the power and telecom-
munications project under consideration); for these projects Costa Rica
might well need to borrow abroad some $30 million in the next year or so,
in addition to the $22 million under consideration. It would, therefore,
be prudent for Costa Rica to limit new external borrowing on conventional
terms so as to keep debt service from rising above present levels. At the
same time, the authorities should establish an order of priorities and de-
fer the start of lower priority projects until sufficient local resources
are available, so that projects can be financed without excessive reliance
on foreign borrowing.
Prospects of Fulfillment of Obligations
20.       ICE has a competent organization and staff, and the arrangements
regarding planning, construction, and financing of the project are such
as to assure that the project will be properly carried out. Furthermore,
ICE's financial position is such that it should be able to fulfill its
financial obligations without difficulty. The service of the proposed
loan, together with Costa Rica's other foreign exchange obligations, should
not impose an undue burden on the Costa Rican economy.



- 7 -
PART V - CGMPLTIiINC W:TH ARTICLES OF AGREEM1ENT
21.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOIMMENDATIONS
22.       I recommend that the Bank make a loan to the Instituto Costar-
ricense de Electricidad with the guarantee of the Republic of Costa Rica,
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $22.0 million with inter-
est (including commission) at 5-1/2% per annum and on such other terms as
are specified in the attached draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements and that
the Executive Directors adopt a resolution to that effect in the form
attached (No. 5).
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D.C.
July 1, 1963



