LOAN NUMBER 346 CR
Loan Agreement
(Power and Telecommunication Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE
DE ELECTRICIDAD
DATED JULY 10, 1963


﻿LOAN NUMBER 346 CR
Loan Agreement
(Power and Telecommunication Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE
DE ELECTRICIDAD
DATED JULY 10, 1963


﻿. [van Agrunmrnt
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1963, between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank) and INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE
ELECTRICIDAD (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS, by an agreement dated February 3, 1961
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank agreed to
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million eight hundred thousand dollars
to assist the Borrower in the expansion of its power gen-
eration and transmission facilities; and
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to make
a second loan to assist it in financing (i) the further expan-
sion of its power generation and transmission facilities
and (ii) the establishment of a telecommunication system
in Costa Rica;
Now THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
Article I
Loan Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement ac-
cept all the provisions of Loan Regulations No. 4 of the
Bank dated February 15, 1961 with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Loan
Regulations No. 4 being hereinafter called the Loan
Regulations).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Loan Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the following
terms shall have the following meanings:
1. The term "Mortgage" shall mean the Original Mort-
gage, as defined in Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and


﻿4
shall include any Supplemental Mortgage constituted pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
2. The term "Long-term Indebtedness" shall mean any
debt maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
3. The term "colones" and the sign "O" shall mean
colones in the currency of the Guarantor.
4. The term "Decree Law No. 449" shall mean Decreto
Ley No. 449 of the Guarantor, issued on April 8, 1949, and
shall include any amendments thereof in effect at the date
of this Agreement.
5. The term "First Loan Agreement" shall mean the
loan agreement (Rio Macho Hydroelectric Project), dated
February 3, 1961, between the Bank and the Borrower,
and shall include such changes in said agreement as may
from time to time be agreed by the Bank and the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Bank shall open a Loan Account on
its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to
such Account the amount of the Loan. The amount of the
Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account as pro-
vided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and sus-
pension set forth in, the Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not so withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of five and one-half per cent (51/2%) per annum on the


﻿5
principal amount of the Loan so withdrawn and outstand-
ing from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the charge payable for special com-
mitments entered into by the Bank at the request of the
Borrower pursuant to Section 4.02 of the Loan Regulations
shall be at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/ of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of any such special
commitments outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each
year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
if the Borrower shall repay, in advance of matitrity, all or
part of its indebtedness then outstanding under the First
Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall repay, in advance of
maturity, all or a proportionate amount, as the case may
be, of the Loan then outstanding. Any amount of the Loan
to be repaid pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this
Section which cannot be applied to the payment of an
entire maturity may, notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (b) of Section 2.05 of the Loan Regulations, be
applied to the payment of a part of a maturity only. In all
other respects the provisions of the Loan Regulations relat-
ing to repayment in advance of maturity shall apply to any
repayment of the Loan pursuant to this Section.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Loan exclusively to financing the cost of goods re-
quired to carry out the Project described in Schedule 2


﻿6
to this Agreement. The specific goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and the methods and procedures
for procurement of such goods shall be determined by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, subject
to modification by further agreement between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be imported
into the territories of the Guarantor and there to be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall execute and deliver
Bonds representing the principal amount of the Loan as
provided in the Loan Regulations.
SECTION 4.02. In addition to the provisions set forth in
the Loan Regulations, the Bonds shall contain:
(a) provisions satisfactory to the Bank to the effect that
the Mortgage will equally and ratably secure pay-
ment of the principal of, interest, premium, if any,
on prepayment or redemption, and other charges on,
the Loan and the Bonds; and
(b) in the event the Bank shall have assigned the Mort-
gage to a trustee or trustees or a similar fiduciary or
fiduciaries, as contemplated in Section 6.03 of this
Agreement, provisions satisfactory to the Bank to
the effect that any and all rights or powers, under
the Mortgag,, of any holder of the Bonds, will be
exercised by such trustee or trustees or fiduciary
or fiduciaries.
SECTION 4.03. Bonds executed and delivered by the Bor-
rower prior to the date on which the Bank shall have as-
signed the Mortgage to a trustee or trustees or a similar


﻿7
fiduciary or fiduciaries, as contemplated in Section 6.03
of this Agreement, shall, as soon as practicable after the
Bank shall have so requested the Borrower and without
charge to the Bank, be exchanged for new Bonds containing
provisions complying with the terms of Section 4.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.04. The Gerevte General of the Borrower and
such person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are
designated as authorized representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 6.12(a) of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering and financial practices. To assist
the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consulting engineers acceptable to the Bank,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Upon request from time to time by the Bank, the
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank the plans
and specifications for the Project and any material modi-
fications subsequently made therein, in such detail as the
Bank shall from time to time request.
(c) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of the Borrower; shall submit annually to the Bank an
audit report of, and financial statements certified by, inde-
pendent public accountants satisfactory to the Bank; shall
enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods and any relevant records and documents; and
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank


﻿8
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the goods, and the opera-
tions and financial condition of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Loan.
(b) The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the
service thereof.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower undertakes that, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, such
lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan and the Bonds, and that in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect; provided,
however, that, except with respect to any property used or
to be used for the construction of the Cachi hydroelectric
plant, described in Part A paragraphs 1 through 5 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or for the construction of
such part of the telecommunication system as is described
in Part B paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply to:
(i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordi-
nary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.


﻿9
SECTION 5.04. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the Guar-
antor or laws in effect in the territories of the Guarantor
on or in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or
registration of this Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement,
the Mortgage or the Bonds, or the payment of principal,
interest or other charges thereunder; provided, however,
that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxa-
tion of payments under any Bond to a holder thereof other
than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an
individual or corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 5.05. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the coun-
try or countries in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds
are payable or laws in effect in the territories of such
country or countries on or in connection with the execution,
issue, delivery or registration of this Agreement, the Guar-
antee Agreement, the Mortgage or the Bonds.
SECTION 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall insure or cause
to be insured with responsible insurers the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against risks incident to
their purchase and importation into the territories of the
Guarantor and to the delivery thereof to the site of the
Project. Such insurance shall be consistent with sound
commercial practice and shall be payable in the currency
in which the cost of the goods insured thereunder shall be
payable or in any convertible currency.
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall insure against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
business and public utility practices.
SECTION 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall at all times main-
tain its existence and right to carry on operations and
shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all
steps necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers,


﻿10
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall operate and maintain its plants,
equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering standards; and shall at all times
operate its plants and equipment and maintain its financial
position in accordance with sound business and public
utility practices.
(c) The Borrower shall not, without the consent of the
Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all
of its property and assets or all or substantially all of the
property included in the Project or any plant or building
the cost of which is financed in whole or in part out of
the proceeds of the Loan, unless the Borrower shall first
pay or redeem, or make adequate provision satisfactory to
the Bank for payment or redemption of, all of the Loan
and the Bonds which shall then be outstanding and unpaid.
SECTION 5.08. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not incur any debt
unless its net revenue for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be
not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service require-
ment for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including
the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall include the assumption and
guarantee of debt and shall mean: (i) Long-term Indebted-
ness, (ii) any debt maturing on demand, and (iii) any debt,
in excess of ten million colones (910,000,000), maturing by
its terms in one year or less.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract or loan agreement
providing for such debt.


﻿11
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean revenue from
all sources, adjusted to take account of power and telecom-
munication rates in effect at the time of the calculation
even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating and administrative expenses, including pro-
visions for taxes, if any, but before provision covering de-
preciation, interest and other charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt.
SECTION 5.09. The Borrower shall from time to time take
all steps necessary or desirable to obtain such adjustments
in its power and telecommunication rates as will provide
revenues sufficient: (a) to cover operating expenses, in-
cluding adequate maintenance and depreciation, taxes and
interest; (b) to meet repayments on Long-term Indebted-
ness but only to the extent that such repayments shall
exceed provision for depreciation; and (c) to create a sur-
plus for financing a reasonable portion of future expansion
of its power and telecommunication facilities.
SECTION 5.10. (a) The Borrower shall promptly take all
steps which shall be necessary to obtain title to the prop-
erties used or to be used for the construction of the Cachi
hydroelectric plant described in Part A paragraphs 1
through 5 of Schedule 2 to thik Agreement, free of all
liens and encumbrances.
(b) Promptly after acquiring an ownership interest in
any property used or to be used for the construction of
the Cachi hydroelectric plant, described in Part A para-
graphs 1 through 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or for
the construction of such part of the telecommunication sys-
tem as is described in Part B paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, the Borrower shall notify the Bank of such


﻿12
acquisition, specifying all liens and encumbrances, if any,
existing on such property at the time title is obtained by
the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Mortgage
SECTION 6.01. (a) Promptly after acquiring title to any
property used or to be used for the construction of the
Cachi hydroelectric plant, described in Part A paragraphs
1 through 5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall take such action and execute and deliver to the Bank,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such instru-
ment or instruments (hereinafter called the Original Mort-
gage) as shall be necessary to constitute under the laws of
the Guarantor, in favor of the Bank and of the holders
from time to time of the Loan and the Bonds, a hipoteca
y prenda. industrial, both de primer grado, on all such
property.
(b) The Borrower shall thereafter from time to time
within sixty days after receipt of a request from the Bank
to that effect, take such action and execute and deliver to
the Bank, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,
such supplemental instrument or instruments (each such
supplemental instrument being hereinafter called the Sup-
plemental Mortgage) as shall be necessary to constitute
under the laws of the Guarantor, in favor of the Bank and
of the holders from time to time of the Loan and the Bonds,
a hipoteca y prenda industriil, both de primer grado, on so
much of the property used or to be used for the construction
of such part of the telecommunication system described in
Part B paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
shall be specified in such request; provided, however, that
if the Borrower shall so desire and the Bank shall so agree,
the Borrower shall instead within sixty days after receipt
of a request from the Bank to that effect, take such action
and execute and deliver to the Bank, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, such supplemental instrument or
instruments as shall be necessary to modify the hipoteca y


﻿13
prenda industrial, constituted pursuant to Article VI of
the First Loan Agreement, to the effect that such hipoteca y
prenda industrial shall secure the Loan, in favor of the
Bank and of the holders from time to time of the Loan and
the Bonds, in addition to the loan made by the Bank to
the Borrower under the First Loan Agreement.
(c) The hipotecas y prendas industriales de primer grado
provided for in paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this
Section shall equally and ratably secure payment of the
principal of, interest, premium, if any, on prepayment and
redemption, and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds.
SECTION 6.02. (a) The Borrower shall duly record, regis-
ter and file and re-record, re-register and re-file the Original
Mortgage and each Supplemental Mortgage in every juris-
diction for which the Bank may from time to time request
any such recording, registration or filing or where such
recording, registration or filing may be necessary or de-
sirable in order to render or maintain the Mortgage a
valid and enforceable first lien.
(b) Promptly after execution and delivery of each Mort-
gage the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (i) evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such Mortgage has been duly
recorded, registered and filed in accordance with the laws
of the Guarantor in all such jurisdictions as may be re-
quired under the laws of the Guarantor to make it a valid
and enforceable first lien in favor of the Bank and of the
holders from time to time of the Loan and the Bonds; and
(ii) an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank, of
counsel acceptable to the Bank, that such Mortgage has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower, that it has been duly recorded,
registered and filed in such jurisdictions as may be re-
quired under the laws of the Guarantor to make it a valid
and enforceable first lien, that it constitutes a. valid first
lien under the laws of the Guarantor enforceable in accord-
ance with its terms, and that at the dates of the Mortgage


﻿14
and of the recording, registration and filing thereof the
Borrower had valid title to the property described therein
free of all liens and encumbrances other than the liens
of the Mortgage.
(c) The Borrower shall take all such other action and
execute and deliver all such other documents as the Bank
may from time to time reasonably request or as may from
time to time be required in order to render or maintain
the Mortgage a valid and enforceable first lien.
SECTION 6.03. The Borrower agrees to the assignment
by the Bank, at any time, of the Mortgage to a trustee or
trustees, or a similar fiduciary or fiduciaries, which may be
the Bank, for the equal and ratable benefit of all holders
of the Loan and the Bonds. The Borrower shall take all
such action and execute and deliver all such documents as
the Bank may from time to time reasonably request or as
may from time to time be required in order to render or
maintain such assignment of the Mortgage valid and
enforceable.
SECTION 6.04. In the event the Bank shall appoint a
trustee or trustees or a fiduciary or fiduciaries, as in Sec-
tion 6.03 of this Agreement provided, the Borrower shall
pay all costs and expenses incidental to such appointment
or appointments or arising out of the exercise by such
trustee or trustees or fiduciary or fiduciaries of his or
their functions.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
SECTIOx 7.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph (a)
or paragraph (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall
occur, or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (a), para-
graph (b), paragraph (e) or paragraph (f) of Section 5.02
of the Loan Regulations, or any event specified in para-
graph (c) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement, shall occur and


﻿15
shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (iii) if any
event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Loan
Regulations shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time during
the continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may de-
clare the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and upon
any such declaration such principal shall become due and
payable immediately, anything in this Agreement or in the
Bonds to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02(j) of
the Loan Regulations the following events are specified:
(a) demand upon the Borrower for repayment in ad-
vance of maturity of the loan granted to the Borrower
pursuant to the agreement dated August 1, 1958 between the
Borrower and Caja Costarricense de Seguro Social, by
reason of any default as specified in said agreement;
(b) suspension or termination of the right of the Bor-
rower to obtain the proceeds of, or demand upon the Bor-
rower for repayment in advance of maturity of, the loan
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 8.01 of this Agree-
ment by reason of any default as specified in the agreement
covering such loan;
(c) any amendment, abrogation or waiver of any pro-
vision of Decree Law No. 449 without the Bank having, in
advance thereof, notified the Guarantor and the Borrower
of its concurrence therewith.
SECTION 7.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that for the purposes of the First Loan Agreement and
this Loan Agreement, respectively, an event referred to in
paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations No. 4
of the Bank applicable to either one of these agreements
shall be deemed to be an event under paragraph (c) of


﻿16
Section 5.02 of the Loan Regulations No. 4 of the Bank
applicable to the other of these agreements.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 9.01(c) of the Loan Regu-
lations:
(a) The Borrower shall have made arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank to borrow an amount of ten million
colones (910,000,000) for carrying out Part B of the
Project.
(b) The President of the Republic of Costa Rica shall
have issued a decree or decrees by which all the properties
used or to be used for the construction of the Cachi hydro-
electric plant, described in Part A paragraphs 1 through
5 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, are declared expro-
priated in favor of the Borrower, or the Borrower shall
have acquired ownership title, free of all liens and encum-
brances, to such properties, whichever shall take place
earlier.
SECTION 8.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 9.02(c) of the Loan
Regulations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely:
(a) That the agreement containing the arrangements
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 8.01 above con-
titutes a valid and binding obligation of the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the decree or decrees referred to in paragraph
(b) of Section 8.01 above are valid and effective, or that
the Borrower shall have valid title to the properties de-


﻿17
scribed in said paragraph (b) free of all liens and encum-
brances, as the case may be.
SECTION 8.03. A date ninety days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
9.04 of the Loan Regulations.
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous
SECTION 9.01. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1967, or such other date as shall be agreed upon from time
to time by the Bank and the Borrower.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 8.01 of the Loan Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Instituto Costarricense de Electricidad
Apartado XXXII
San Jose, Costa Rica
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
ICE
San Jose
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington 25, D. C.
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.


﻿18
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives, thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ GEORGE D. WOODS
President
INSTITUTO COSTARRICENSE DE ELECTRICIDAD
By /s/ R. GIL P.
Authorized Representative


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date payment due                   (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1967                         $320,000
March 1, 1968                              330,000
September 1, 1968                          340,000
March 1, 1969                              350,000
September 1, 1969                          360,000
March 1, 1970                              370,000
September 1, 1970                          380,000
March 1, 1971                              390,000
September 1, 1971                          400,000
March 1, 1972                              410,000
September 1, 1972                          420,000
March 1, 1973                              435,000
September 1, 1973                          445,000
March 1, 1974                              460,000
September 1, 1974                          470,000
March 1, 1975                              485,000
September 1, 1975                          495,000
March 1, 1976                              510,000
September 1, 1976                          525,000
March 1, 1977                              540,000
September 1, 1977                          555,000
March 1, 1978                              570,000
September 1, 1978                          585,000
March 1, 1979                              600,000
September 1, 1979                          615,000
March 1, 1980                              635,000
September 1, 1980                          650,000
March 1, 1981                             670,000
September 1, 1981                         690,000
March 1, 1982                              705,000
September 1, 1982                         725,000
March 1, 1983                              745,000
September 1, 1983                          765,000
March 1, 1984                              785,000
September 1, 1984                          810,000
March 1, 1985                              830,000
September 1, 1985                          855,000
March 1, 1986                              880,000
September 1, 1986                          895,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see Loan Regulations, Section 3.03), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes
of withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
2.05(b) of the Loan Regulations or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section
6.16 of the Loan Regulations:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption     Premium
Not more than three years before maturity 1/y%
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity.............. 1
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity.......... 11/2%
More than eleven years but not more than
sixteen years before maturity... .....2%
More than sixteen years but not more than
nineteen years before maturity ........   1 3 o'
More than nineteen years but not more
than twenty-one years before maturity. . 412
More than twenty-one years before
m aturity  ............................  512


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
PART A-POWER
'his part of the Project is the construction of the Cachi
hydroelectric plant with a capacity of 56 mw, transmission
lines and substations extending the existing power system
operated by the Borrower and the extension of the Liberia
diesel electric plant by 300 kw. The principal items of this
part of the Project are:
1. A concrete arch dam, about 54 meters high at Cachi
on Rio Reventazon, designed to create a reservoir with
a capacity of 10.5 million cubic meters.
2. Intake works on the right bank of Rio Reventazon
upstream of the dam equipped with sliding gates and
trash racks.
3. A concrete lined pressure tunnel, some 5,940 meters
long with a capacity of 35 cubic meters per second
and an underground surge tank located at the end
of the tunnel.
4. A steel lined tumel section about 116 meters long and
a steel penstock about 450 meters long connecting the
pressure tunnel with the power house.
5. A power house, located at El Congo coffee and sugar
mill, equipped with two 28,000 kw turbo-generating
units and associated mechanical and electrical equip-
ment necessary for the operation of the units and a
short tailrace channel to return the water to Rio
Reventazon.
6. Outdoor substations located adjacent to Cachi power
house and at El Radio near Cartago and Limon and
extensions to existing substations and switchyards
at Ciruelitas, Barranca, El Meson, Esparta, Garita,
Guacimo, Marvilla, Naranjo and Puntarenas.


﻿22
7. Installation of a second circuit of the 38 kilometer
Rio Macho-Colima 138 kv transmission line, about
110 kilometers of new 138 kv transmission lines and
about 185 kilometers of 33 kv transmission lines.
8. Expansion of the Liberia diesel electric plant by in-
stallation of 300 kw diesel generating unit.
PART B-TELECOMMUNICATION
This part of the Project is the construction of automatic
telephone exchanges for a total of 26,000 lines, cable and
line networks and radio installations for interurban con-
nections. The principal items of this part of the Project
are:
1. In San Jose two main automatic telephone exchanges,
one in the center of the town with 13,500 subscriber
lines and switchboards for long distance traffic and
information services, and one at   San Pedro with
5,000 subscriber lines. Both exchanges are to be de-
signed for later expansion and equipped with neces-
sary auxiliary services. Six satellite telephone ex-
changes with a total of about 1,300 subscriber lines
would be located in suburban areas.
2. In the towns of Alajuela, Cartago, Heredia, Punta-
renas and Limon automatic telephone exchanges with
a total of about 4,900 subscriber lines. In an additional
17 smaller towns, automatic telephone exchanges with
a total of about 1,240 subscriber lines.
3. Networks to connect the exchanges with the sub-
scribers.
4. Cables to connect the towns of Alajuela, Heredia and
Cartago with San Jose; microwave installations to
connect San Jose with Limon, Puntarenas and towns
in the northern and southern part of the country; and
VHF radio equipment to provide connections to 17
smaller towns.
5. 30,000 telephone subscriber sets and 300 public tele-
phones.


