Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15518-PR
STAYF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT
November 15, 1996
Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Kuna (as of June 1994)
Prior to June 1994, the Croatian Dinar was the official currency unit of Croatia.
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Kunas per US$1
Jan 93 (equiv.)   Jul 93 (equiv.)  Jan 94 (equiv.)    Jun 94    Jan 95       Dec 95
0.87             3.53             6.60          6.07         5.38        5.31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ha         = hectare
km         = Kilometer (0.621 miles)
m3 ob      = cubic meter over bark
m3 ub      =  cubic meter under bark
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC           Annual Allowable Cut
CES           Croatia Ecological Society
ER            Environmental Review
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
FMP           Forest Management Plan
FRI           Forest Research Institute
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GNP           Gross National Product
HS            Hrvatske Sume (Croatian Forests)
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MAF           Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Mol           Ministry of Interior
NGO           Non-Government Organization
NFP           National Forest Policy
PMU           Project Management Unit
TA            Technical Assistance
VAT           Value Added Tax
CROATIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:            Jean-Michel Severino, EC2
Division Chief:      Michele de Nevers, EC2AR
Task Manager:        Franqois Wencdlius, EC2AR



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary  .............................................                                                                        i
CHAPTER  I.  INTRODUCTION   .........................................    I
CHAPTER II. BACKGROUND    ...................................                                                                                 2
A. The Forestry  Sector   ..........................................    2
B.  Impacts of the War   ..........................................    9
C.  The Project Area  ............................................    9
D.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   .................................                                                            12
CHAPTER  III.  THE  PROJECT                               ........................................                                           14
A.  Project Objectives and Summary  Description   .........................                                                       14
B.  Detailed Features  ...........................................                                                                14
C.  Project Costs and Financing  ....................................    20
D. Fiscal and Financial Sustainability ................................  21
E.  Project Procurement Arrangements    ...............................    22
F.  Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement  ............................    26
G.  Environment Impact .........................................    27
CHAPTER IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   ...........                                                 ..................  29
A.  Responsibilities and Management   ................................    29
B.  Financial Mechanisms  ........................................                                                               31
C.  Technical Assistance and Training   ................................    31
D.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation  ................................    31
E. Auditing and Reporting Requirements .32
F.  Implementation and Supervision Plans ..............................    32
CHAPTER  V.  PROJECT  BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   ...........                                            .................    34
A.  Project Benefits    ...........................................                                                               34
B.  Markets and Prices   .........................................    35
C.  Economic Analysis   .........................................    35
D.  Risks  ..................................................                                                                    39
CHAPTER  VI.  AGREEMENTS  REACHED    ................................                                                                       40



Tables
Table 3.1: Forest Fire Management Activities ........                  ........................   16
Table 3.2: Estimated Costs  .        ..........................................   20
Table 3.3: Financing Plan by Components .........                   .........................   21
Table 3.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ......................   25
Table 3.5: Disbursement Table .........................................   26
Table 3.6: Disbursement Categories ......................................   26
Table 4.1: Responsibilities ............................................   29
Table 5.1: Total Economic Benefits of Reforestation at the Proposed Sites ..............   36
Table 5.2: Estimated Mean Value of Economic Benefits Lost to Forest Fires  ...                  .........   37
Table 5.3: Economic Rates of Returns  ....................................   37
Annex A. Detailed Cost Tables ............................................
Annex B. Implementation Plan  ............................................
SUPPORTING VOLUME
The Forestry Sector
Annex C. Forest and Wood Industry Sectors in Croatia
Annex D. Forest Biodiversity
Annex E. Financial Analysis of Hrvatske Sume
Project Implementation
Annex F.  Rehabilitation of Coastal Forests
Annex G.  Reconstruction of Piket Nursery and Trsteno Arboretum
Annex H.  Forest Fire Management
Annex I.   Support Services
Annex J.  Economic Analysis
Annex K.  Enviromnental Review
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission that visited Croatia in February 1996, comprising Messrs.
Frangois Wenc6lius (Mission Leader and Task Manager), Louis Carbonnier, Norman Jones (Sr. Forestry Specialists),
Stefano Pagiola (Economist), Ms. Emilia Battaglini (Economist), Jean-Frangois Laurain, Daniel Alexandrian, Philip
Bryiski, Jules Gingras (Consultants). Ms. Marjory-Anne Bromhead (ECIAE), and Mr. William Beattie (LA2NR), were
the peer reviewers. Ms. A. Batra (ECI/2AR) assembled the report. The Division Chief is Ms. Michele de Nevers
(ECI/2AR), and the Department Director is Mr. Jean-Michel Severino (EC2DR)



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:              Republic of Croatia
BENEnCLuRIES:          Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Hrvatske Sume (Croatian Forests),
and Ministry of Interior
AMOuNT:                US$42 million
TERMs:                  17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:   The main objective of the project is to restore and protect forest land in the
coastal zone of Croatia in order to enhance landscape and recreation values
of the region and thereby contribute to restore tourism to its pre-war level.
Other objectives related to the project's main objective are to (i) restore the
environmental role of coastal forests destroyed by the war, in protecting soils
and waters, and initiate the restoration of the natural vegetation; (ii) address
the problem of forest fire that is a crucial threat to coastal areas; and (iii)
develop the knowledge base for improved management and protection of
coastal forests.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The project, to be implemented over 5 years, would include the following 3
components: (i) reconstruction of coastal forests destroyed by war activities
including the rehabilitation of about 5,800 ha of forests, and the
reconstruction of one nursery and one arboretum; (ii) forest fire management
in coastal areas including a comprehensive package of prevention, pre-
suppression, and suppression measures including the purchase of a new
seaplane air-tanker; and (iii) support services including the development of a
GIS for forest fire management, research in coastal forestry, institutional
support to Hrvatske Sume (HS) and the Ministry of Interior (Mol), and
project management and monitoring.
PROJECT BENEFITS
AND RISKS:             Benefits. Most of the benefits expected from the project would be improved
landscape and environmental conditions of coastal forests, resulting from the
reconstruction of forests destroyed by the war and from the reduction in areas
of coastal forests burnt by fires. These major benefits are expected, in turn,
to contribute to increased economic benefits from the rehabilitation of tourism
in coastal areas. Other commercial, social, and institutional and scientific
benefits would also be generated either by forest reconstruction and protection
activities or by project activities related to support services.



- ii -
Risks. The main project risks are associated with the possibility of hostility
resumption, and the delay in tourism recovery. The risk of hostilities within
Croatia has been significantly reduced as a result of the re-establishment of
Government control, in early August 1995, over most of Croatia's territory,
and of the Peace Agreement reached in November 1995 in neighboring
Bosnia-Herzegovina. Although there may continue to be regional tensions,
the risk of conflict-related damage to project investments is small. The
potential risk of reduced benefits of the project due to delay in the recovery
of the tourist industry has been mitigated by adopting conservative values in
the assumptions used in the economic analysis of the project. The sensitivity
analysis shows that reforestation remains profitable even if tourism recovers
to only two-thirds of prewar levels within a six-year period.
EsTIATED PROJECT COST (in US$ '000):
US$ '000 Equivalent           %         % Total
Local  Foreign     Total     Foreign       Base
Local     Foreign     Total    Exchange      Costs
1. Coastal Forest Reconstruction           6,642      3,482     10,124       34             17
2. Forest Fire Management                  10,284    31,644     41,928       75             72
3. Support Services                         3,187     3,164      6,351       50             11
Total Base Costs                           20,113    38,291     58,403       66            100
Physical Contingencies                  2,011      3,829      5,840       66             10
Price Contingencies                     1,810      1,205      3,015       40             5
Total Project Costs                        23,934    43,325     67,259       64            115
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
FINANCING PLAN (US$ millions):
Components                                       GOC        WB        HS       Total
Coastal Forest Reconstruction                      0.9       4.0       7.0      11.9
Forest Fire Management                             7.7      34.4       5.8      47.9
Support Services                                   2.4       3.6       1.5       7.5
TOTAL                                             11.0      42.0      14.3      67.3
ESTIMATED DisBuRSmEN'Ts (US$ millions):
WORLD BANK FISCAL YEAR
1997     1998       1999      2000       2001      2002
Annual                    1.5       6.2       25.0       6.3        1.8        1.2
Cumulative                 1.5      7.7       32.7      39.0       40.8      42.0
RATE OF RETURN:           15 percent
POVERTY CATEGORY:    Not Applicable



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Croatia has a large and well managed forest resource base, of just over 2.4 million ha or 43.5 %
of the total land area, that is a strong asset for both economic development and environmental protection.
The soil and climatic conditions, specially in the inland part of the country, are extremely favorable for
productive forestry. Coastal forests, which belong to the Mediterranean type, are far less productive than
the continental forests; however, they have high environmental, amenity, and landscape values, in
particular for tourism which is the main economic activity in coastal areas (tourist income generated on
the coast reached some US$2 billion in 1990). About 80% of Croatian forests are public owned and
managed by the Hrvatske Sume ("Croatian Forests") public enterprise, under the control of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry. The latter has recently developed a comprehensive National Forest Policy
that aims at sustainable development of all the different types of forest, environment protection, and
conservation of forest biodiversity, and which has been adopted by the Parliament. Croatia has a broad
range of wood industries with significant development potential; however, technology and equipment are
in many cases outdated and the industry faces structural problems in the ongoing transition. The average
contribution of forestry and the wood industry to GNP, about 4%, has been rather constant over the last
years. Croatia is a net exporter of industrial wood products, which represent about 12% of total Croatian
exports during the pre-war period.
1.2    Croatia's forestry sector has been seriously affected by the recent war. About 30% of the forest
land has been in occupied territories for four years, thus reducing the annual national wood production.
Outside these territories where the impact of the war is being assessed, about 100,000 ha of forests have
been affected by minefields, shelling, fires, and other destruction which have resulted in severe impact
on forest resources (including wildlife), and forest management infrastructures. About 15,000 ha of
forests have been completely destroyed, mainly in the coastal areas where the war has deeply affected
the economy, mostly based on tourism, and local employment.
1.3    While the problems of inland forests are being solved by the Government, coastal forests of
Croatia deserve immediate attention and assistance.  Indeed, Croatian coastal forests, like most
Mediterranean forests, have large areas of degraded stands resulting from intense and long lasting human
pressure for timber, fuel, and grazing. In addition to being the most affected by recent war activities,
they have been neglected in the past, in comparison with inland forests, in terms of protection and
management. They are also most sensitive to fire, mostly of human origin, that ravage a significant area
every year because of growing human pressure, and also inefficient fire control systems due to
insufficient Government financial resources.
1.4    Against this background, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has requested assistance to
help finance this project which was prepared between September 1994 and April 1995 by a Croatian
preparation team, with the assistance of the Bank and FAO/CP, using a PHRD Japanese Grant and other
cooperation funds from donor governments. Pre-appraisal of the project was completed in October 1995,
and the project was appraised in February 1996; the environmental review was carried out in summer
and fall 1995.



- 2 -
CHAPTER II. BACKGROUND
A. The Forestry Sector
2.1    Forestry in the Economy. In the national accounting system, the forestry sector in Croatia is
subdivided in 4 sub-sectors: forest activities, lumber and panels industries, final wood products industries
and pulp and paper industries. The average contribution of the forest and wood industries to GNP has
been rather constant over the period 1988-1993 (minimum value: 3.72 % in 1990, maximum value: 3.97%
in 1988). On average, forest activities account for 30% of gross production in the sector (1.15% of
GNP), lumber and panels 20% (0.75% of GNP), finished wood products 35% (1.29%) and pulp and
paper 15% (0.53% of GNP). In absolute terms the sector's gross production increased in 1993 but, in
the forest and pulp and paper sub-sectors, it is still far below the pre-war period. The forest and wood
industry sector represents an important source of employment for Croatia: a stable 4.5% of the labor
force (46,300 people) is employed in forest activities and in related wood industries; however in absolute
terms employment in the sector has dramatically decreased in the last 5 years (-35.6% of the total 71,900
employed in 1990); considerable reductions in relative and absolute terms have occurred in the final wood
products sub-sector.
2.2    Croatia is a net exporter of wood products and, despite the serious problems arising from the need
to restructure its industry and adapting it to Western markets, Croatia has gradually increased exports not
only of semi-finished products but also of finished wood products in the post-war period. As a
percentage of total Croatian exports, export of wood products in 1993 (US$ 460 million) reached the
same level as during the pre-war period (11.8% in 1988). Italy is the first export market for wood
products from Croatia, mainly for sawnwood and logs; Germany comes second, mainly for final wood
products. Imports of wood products (US$ 124 million in 1993) are mainly represented by final wood
products and pulp and paper; on average imports of wood products represent less than 2% of total
Croatian imports.
2.3   In addition, the forest fulfills numerous public functions, that are not included in the GNP
calculations. Forests play an important role in protecting the environment; they protect soils from erosion
in mountainous areas, and they contribute significantly in regulating water regimes. As mentioned below,
they entail an important part of Croatia's biodiversity. Forests have also high amenity and landscape
values; they are an important part of Croatia's touristic assets in the mountains as well as on the
Mediterranean coast and on the islands.
2.4    Forest Biodiversity. Croatia has a high diversity of forest ecosystems which belong to three
broad forest types: (i) lowlandforests on alluvial deposits along the rivers of central and eastern Croatia
at elevations from 80m to 200 m; (ii) mountain forests ranging from 200 m to 1,200 m, from Slovenia
in the east to the border of Slavonia in the west and to the southern reaches of the Dinaric Mountains;
the latter, a World Heritage Site, and adjoining coastal hills support unique forest communities on karstic
soils; and (iii) coastal forests on the coast and in the islands that are evenly distributed among
Mediterranean and sub-Mediterranean belts; these forests have been long impacted by human use and
abuse. The native flora of Croatia includes about 3,600 species; 260 of the estimated 312 endemic plant
species occur in forests. The latter also support abundant wildlife populations, the most conspicuous of
which are the red and roe deer, wild boar, and rare species such as lynx, brown bear, and otter. The
recent red list of Croatian flora and fauna contains 124 plant species, mostly herbaceous and woody shrub
species, and 28 mammals species, many of which occur in forest habitats.



-3 -
2.5    Conservation of biodiversity is an important concern of Croatia's Government; the Convention
on Biological Diversity was the first international agreement it has signed. Croatian legislation on nature
protection and the sustainable use of biodiversity is comparable to the legislation of other European
countries, and includes: the Law on Nature Conservation (updated in 1994), a new Law on Hunting
(adopted in 1994), the Law on Environmental Protection (updated in 1994), and the Law on Freshwater
Fishing of 1986. Some 446,000 ha are classified as protected areas, or close to 8% of the country, and
are managed under the authority of the State Agency for the Conservation of Cultural and Natural
Heritage. The most important are 7 National Parks (69,000 ha), 2 Strict Reserves (2,500 ha); and 6
Nature Parks (318,000 ha).
2.6    Forest Resources and Uses. Croatia is endowed with important forest resources. As much as
43.5% of the Croatian territory is covered by forest land (2.5 million ha), which is amongst the highest
rates of forest cover in Central Europe. About 84% of forest land are closed forests. As mentioned
above, the Croatian forests are rich in biodiversity with some 260 forest autochthonous woody plants of
which 60 are economically important. In total, 84% of the standing stock of the Croatian forests are
broadleaves. Beech (Fagus silvatica, 35%) and different oaks (Quercus robur, Q. petraea, Q. cerris,
Q. pubescens, 28%) are the dominating broadleaves and among the conifers it is the fir (Abies alba, 10%)
which has the largest share. In very general terms the high quality forests are located in the inland and
are dominated by high value broadleaved trees like beech and oak, while the coast and islands are
dominated by relatively low quality pines and Mediterranean broadleaves. The average standing volume
is 121 m3s ob/ha, which is about the same as Bulgaria (122), slightly less than the European average
(129) but considerably less than Romania (>200). It is principally the coastal forests which reduce the
national average standing stock, otherwise the inland forests are quite well stocked. The State forests,
constituting 81% (2 million ha) of the forest land, are managed by Hrvatske Sume (HS) since 1991. The
remaining forest land is owned by some 350,000 private forest owners, with an average holding of 1.3
ha, and by some public institutions.
2.7    The Croatian forests have traditionally been an important source of raw material for the
prosperous wood processing industry which was part of the former Yugoslavian economy. The annual
allowable cut for the forests managed by HS is estimated at 5.2 million m3s ob, but considerably less has
been utilized during the 1990s, mostly because of war activities. In average, during the period HS has
been operating (1991-95), some 3.2 million m3s ob were harvested annually generating some US$110
million a year on average. In 1993 about half the harvested volume was used for sawing, 20% for
pulping and 30% for fuelwood. The low proportion of pulpwood is partly due to the fact that most of
the pulpmills in former Yugoslavia were situated in what at present is Bosnia, so it has been difficult to
market pulpwood during this period.
2.8    Forest products other than wood are very important. Thanks to varied ecological conditions,
wildlife is rich and abundant. Forests, from plains to high mountains, are the natural habitat of many
game species (e.g., red deer, roe deer, fallow deer, chamois, mouflon, bear, wild boar, brown hare,
pheasant). Hunting activities are already generating significant income in HS and, according to the FAO,
have a very high growth potential. Forest lands include an important hydrographic network which is rich
in fish resources.  Croatian forests also offer a wide range of forest fruits, berries, and edible
mushrooms.
2.9    Forest Management.  Croatian forests are managed for multi-purposes, i.e., sustainable
production of wood and non-wood products, for conservation and protection of the environment, for
recreational purposes, and for amenity. The last two purposes are specifically important in the coastal
area where tourism is the predominant source of income. The main goals of forest management in



- 4 -
Croatia are to increase the area of forests devoted to protection, to improve the ecological standards of
silvicultural treatments, and to enhance the production capacity of the forests. Forests are categorized
into commercial forests (95 percent) that have the main function to produce wood and other forest
products, and unexploitable forests (2 percent) and protective forests (3 percent) where silvicultural and
harvesting activities have strong limitations or are forbidden. Some 300,000 ha of forests in protected
areas are managed under particular limitations specific to each area.
2.10   Silvicultural management of Croatian forests is predominantly based on natural regeneration
including (i) successive and selective felling systems, with cleaning, thinning, intermediate cutting and
sanitary felling in the 1.084 million ha of highforests; and (ii) improvement of degraded forest or
conversion of coppices to highforests in an area of 883,000 ha. In addition, some 94,000 ha have been
planted over the years, including about 40,000 ha of fast growing broadleaved species. Nursery activities
are organized over some 450 ha by HS and the Forest Research Institute (FRI) in Jastrebarsko.
2.11   Since 1769, when Empress Maria Theresia of Austria issued the first forest law, Croatian inland
forests have been managed on a sustainable basis. At present all inland forests are subject to a Forest
Management Plan (FMP) valid for a 10-year period. These FMPs have become increasingly sophisticated
over the years and are now being made available for district managers on desk top computers in order
to facilitate operational planning. This system has been implemented in seven out of a total of 15 regions.
The annual allowable cut (AAC) set in these management plans is lower than the potential biological
increment because of increasing protective functions assigned to forests and of rather long rotations for
most of forest species.
2.12   However, coastal forests have been neglected until now in comparison with inland forests. In
spite of their advanced degradation in many areas, coastal forests have been given little attention when
sustainable forest management principles were adopted in Croatia; minimal investment resource have been
devoted until recently to restore the most degraded areas; research in coastal forest management is still
under-developed when compared with the remarkable development of research on inland forests; and the
development of FMPs is beginning under a program that has started with the creation of HS only, and
is supposed to be completed by 2000.
2.13   Marketing and Pricing of Forest Products. About 95%  of the wood is marketed by HS
according to a system of roundwood pricing that includes a mixture of auctions and fixed pricing, but
does not distort wood prices significantly. The modalities of the pricing system are defined by a special
committee including representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry,
the Chamber of Commerce, HS, and Croatiadrvo (the association of Croatian wood industries). The
system operates according to the following three methods: (i) price list defined and adjusted twice a year
for each assortment and species according to price movements on European markets, with particular
reference to those in the two principal importer countries (Germany and Italy); the price list method is
used as basis for supplying large- and medium-size wood industries; some 65% of the sales, for 80% of
the volume, were made in the recent years under contracts based on the price list method: average price
per rn3 at mill gate were US$88 in 1994 and US$93 in 1995; (ii) domestic auctions for Croatian operators
only under which about 25% of the sales, for 15% of the volume, were made: average price per m3 at
mill gate were US$93 in 1994 and US$90 in 1995; and (iii) international auctions, for high quality export
logs, under which about 10% of the sales, for 5% of the volume, were made: average border price per
m3 were US$259 in 1994 and US$161 in 1995. The price list method, which is supposed to be the less
favorable for HS, may affect the income of the latter in the long run. The Government intends to phase
it out, however only progressively in order to ease the difficult ongoing transition of the wood industry.



- 5 -
2.14   Wood Industry. The wood industry -- which is located all over the country, with the exception
of the costal region -- has been largely developed during the 1960s into heavy and large wood processing
conglomerates dealing with all the sectors of the industry, from sawmilling to furniture and panel
production. Since the 1980s, the wood industry is suffering from stagnating investments resulting in
decreasing efficiency. Since the end of 1993, the whole wood industry is under the privatization process.
So far, the average percentage of State ownership, through the Croatian State Fund, is around 55% of
the enterprises, the rest has been shared between workers (35%), and other shareholders (15%).
Recently, new small size sawmills with generally old equipment have been created as a consequence of
the liberalization of the sector, but there are also a few newly created modern furniture enterprises. The
wood industry has been deeply affected by the war and by the subsequent problems: (i) the collapse of
the traditional pre-war markets; (ii) the collapse of the wood industry in the former occupied territories,
although destruction seems to have affected heavily only one factory, out of 12 in this area; (iii) the low
demand of the domestic market; (iv) the disorganization of the commercial flows of wood (lack of wood
supplies from the former occupied territories, and the loss of the market in that zone); and (v) the general
difficulties faced by the Croatian economy. This situation results in increased overcapacity -- the present
rate of actual utilization of existing production capacity is 42% for the sawmill, veneer and board
industry, and 47% for the furniture industry -- and to financial losses of the wood industry.
2.15   The key elements of a strategy to address the problems of the wood industry in Croatia would
be: (i) developing the ongoing promotion of exports, with a focus on more efficient marketing and
improved quality of products; (ii) supporting the restructuring of the conglomerates by providing
assistance to designing, evaluating and implementing their fragmentation into small, coherent and
independent industrial units based on one core business, with access to leasing or renting schemes for the
workers -- one good example of such a restructuring is the RADIN Company (saw mill and furniture
factory) in Ravna Gora; (iii) easing the access to credit, which is indeed dramatically missing in the whole
wood industry; (iv) speeding-up the privatization process; (v) addressing the problem of unpaid
receivables due to Hrvatske Sume by the wood industries (HS and the MAF are working on possible
solutions); and (vi) develop a roundwood sale system supporting the wood industry but more suitable to
a liberalized market.
2.16   National Forest Policy. A National Forest Policy (NFP) has been recently developed and
adopted in Croatia, which is presented in the following two documents (i) "Condition and Organization
of Forestry in Croatia and Public Enterprise Hrvatske kume, with Measures for their Improvement",
adopted by the Parliament in 1994; and (ii) "Development Program of Hrvatske Sume (1991 - 2025)"
adopted in the wake of the creation of HS in 1991. The general objectives of the NFP, i.e. sustainable
development, environment protection, and biodiversity conservation, are in line with the accepted
resolutions of different international Agreements signed by Croatia. Some more specific objectives of
the NFP are the following:
* enhancement of the multipurpose and economically sustainable use of the forests, mainly based
on natural regeneration of mixed even-aged or uneven-aged highforests;
* protection of the forest resources from different sources of degradation: mostly fires in coastal
forests, but also pests and diseases, and illegal fellings (mainly concentrated in private forests);
* rehabilitation of degraded forest resources in the Mediterranean areas, reconstruction of forests
destroyed by the war, and afforestation of marginal agricultural land; the aims of these policies
are nature conservation, environment protection, countryside improvement in the coastal tourist



-6 -
areas, and production of timber with fast growing species (poplars and willows) in the lowlands
of the Eastern part of the country;
* ensuring a steady supply of high quality rough material to the domestic wood working industry,
increasing added value and export revenues from a restructured and modernized wood working
industry, thus maintaining the current level of 40,000 people employed in the forestry and wood
working sector.
2.17   The main strategic options adopted under the NFP are the following:
* developing centralized management of State forests which were once managed by independent
units with resulting disparities, in management quality and level of investments, between the
productive inland forests and the degraded and less productive Mediterranean forests. With the
creation of HS, and the development of its General Management Plan, financial resources can be
transferred to achieve a better balance of funds, personnel and investments between different
areas of the country;
* improving the management of private forests through mandatory FMPs, and the technical
(extension and technical advice) and financial (provision of seedlings and forest protection works)
assistance of HS;
* privatizing 70 % of commercial activities currently carried out by HS, such as forest silvicultural
works (cleaning, early thinnings, pruning), harvesting (fuelwood collection, timber felling and
skidding), log transport, and various other non-core activities of HS;
* developing a more efficient relationship between forestry and the wood industry by concentrating
policy making in one Ministry (i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry), opening the wood
market to domestic and international competition, and devising incentives to support war-affected
enterprises and to export more wood products.
2.18   There are three fundamental instruments to implement the NFP:
* the Forest Law 52/90, approved in 1990 and amended in 1993, which defines the general
objectives and organization of public intervention in the sector and establishes new financial
mechanisms including: (i) the obligation for all forest owners in Croatia to invest 15% to 20%
of the income from wood sales into "Simple Biological Reproduction" (i.e. regeneration and
maintenance of existing forests), and an additional 3 % into "Extended Biological Reproduction"
(i.e. investments in extended forests); and (ii) the obligation for all Croatian commercial and
industrial companies to pay a 0.07% tax on their turnover, which is transferred to HS, to finance
investments in forest improvement for environmental purposes, including restoration of degraded
forests in the karst areas and forest research.
* the General Management Plan of HS approved in 1993 which combines all the various FMPs
compiled at local level and defines, for the country and for the different HS management units,
optimal growing stock and AAC, removals, area to be afforested or ameliorated, infrastructures,
investments needed, etc.;
* the HS annual budget approved by Parliament which defines short term objectives, public
financing and the pricing system for roundwood sold by the State enterprise.



- 7 -
2.19   Public Institutions. The highest administrative authority in the forestry sector is the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF); the Ministry operates through the Forestry and Wildlife Department
which is organized in two Divisions: the Forestry and Wildlife Division and a Division with inspection
duties carried out at the level of the 22 administrative districts ("Zupanija").
2.20   The State enterprise Hrvatske Sume (HS) was created in 1991, according to the Forest Law. For
the first time in Croatia's history, HS is responsible for managing all State and other public forest land
(about 2 million ha) under the control of the MAF. HS is a financially autonomous enterprise, managed
by a Director General who reports to a 9-member Executive Board -- 6 members are appointed by the
Government and 3 members are elected by HS's employees -- which has ultimate authority in
management and financial matters. HS is organized in 15 forest districts ("Uprava Suma") and 168 local
offices (Sumarija). HS is responsible for all works related to forest management, from regeneration to
selling roundwood at road side and, in some cases, transportation to the firms. Wood production is not
the only objective of HS activities: 0.5 million ha of forests and other forest land are managed for game
and, in some National Parks, HS is responsible for managing the forest area by applying strict criteria
of environmental protection. The HS's mandate also includes (i) supervision and general enforcement
of forest laws and regulations in non-State forests, although its employees do not operate as a police
corps; and (ii) training and extension to private and public organization outside the State enterprise;
however, this still represents a limited part in the HS's activities. Forest activities are carried out partly
by H§'s own work-force, which has decreased since 1991 to about 10,000 employees. As a result of H§
strategy to privatize non-core activities progressively, an increasing share of forest works is carried out
by private contractors (in 1994, they carried out 50% of silvicultural and road construction works, 40%
of felling, 53% of skidding, and 45% of log transport).
2.21   Other Ministries also have responsibilities in forestry at the national level:
* the Ministry of Science and Technology which controls and partly finances the two public
institutions dealing with R & D in the sector: the Faculty of Forestry in Zagreb and the Forest
Research Institute in Jastrebarsko;
* the Ministry of Interior which has overall responsibility of forest fire control and collaborates
with the State enterprise HS in forest fire prevention and combat;
* the State Agency for the Conservation of Cultural and Natural Heritage (SACCNH) which is
responsible for nature protection in protected areas and has, in particular, authority over Croatia's
7 National Parks.
2.22   The Private sector. The private sector plays a modest role in forest management since private
forest land ownership is limited to some 458,000 ha. Production and self consumption of firewood are
the main objectives of the forestry activities carried out by private owners. The extremely large number
of private small landowners and the degraded structure of many private forests reduce the private sector's
political importance. The involvement of private enterprises in felling, harvesting and transport of logs
is steadily increasing. Enviromnental non-governmental organizations are emerging in a large number,
both at the national and local levels, but their lobbying power is still limited.
2.23   Fiscal and Financial Aspects of the Forestry Sector. It is very difficult to assess the fiscal
situation of the forestry sector during the recent years, because of disruptions caused by the war and
because of a changing tax system. Under current tax system, and taking into account the consequences
of the recent war, the situation appeared to be roughly balanced in 1994. Indeed, fiscal expenditure



- 8 -
amounted to about Kunal2O million, including Kuna9O million corresponding to the fiscal transfer to HS
of the "0.07% tax on turnover" of Croatian companies, and an estimated Kuna3O million budgetary
contribution to forest administration (MAF), training and research (Ministry of Science and Technology),
and forest protection (SACCNH and protected areas). Fiscal income amounted also to about Kunal20
million, including direct fiscal transfers from the forest sector estimated at Kuna7O million (i.e., KunalO
million from profit taxes, Kuna3O million from service taxes, and Kuna 30 million from custom tariffs),
and an estimated KunaSO million contribution by HS (i.e., a KunalO million dividend returned to the
budget, and Kuna4O million for the salaries of HS staff serving in the Army). This situation is likely to
change dramatically into a positive balance in the near future with peace and with the introduction of the
VAT in 1997 which is expected to generate about Kuna200 million from the forestry sector.
2.24   The financial aspects of the forestry sector are mostly determined by those of Hrvatske Sume
(HS). The financial analysis of HS, presented in Annex E, shows that the enterprise has had a positive,
although decreasing, net income over the recent years. In 1995, revenues from wood production were
Kuna974 million (of which 99% were sales of forest products); revenue "generated" by the "0.07% tax
on industry turnover" were KunalOl million; the total cost of commercial and non-commercial activities
of HS was Kuna997 million, including Kuna418 million for salaries; the net income, after depreciation
and debt service, was Kunal8 million. It is not clear whether HS makes a significant profit out of
productive activities since its cost accounting system does not allow for a clear separation of commercial
from non-commercial activities. The financial analysis of HS also concludes that HS's financial structure
is sound. In June 1995, fixed assets represented 74% of total assets, and equity represented 88% of total
liabilities.
2.25    HS has maintained this positive financial situation in spite of serious difficulties caused by the
war (see para. 2.28), dividend contributions to the budget, difficult access to bank credit, and the
receivables from the wood industry which have decreased recently but are still important. This force-
majeure events, associated with increases in salary (mainly due to inflation) and overheads affected HS's
profitability and investment capabilities. The net income decreased from Kuna67 million in 1993 to the
above-mentioned Kunal8 million in 1995, and the operating cash flow decreased from 32% of sales in
1993 to 13 % at mid-1995. However, this trend is expected to reverse in the near future, since wood sales
should grow thanks to the recent recovery of the productive forests of formerly occupied territories and
sale prices should increase with the overall improvement in the domestic economy. Moreover, the
management of Hg has identified several actions to restore the enterprise's profitability: (i) speeding-up
the privatization program for non-core activities; (ii) reducing the number of Hg administrative staff; (iii)
improving the wood selling system; (iv) improving the accounting system of HS; and (v) addressing the
problem of receivables. The project would provide Hg with technical assistance for the implementation
of some of these initiatives.
2.26   Policy Issues. Most of the main policy issues facing the forestry sector in Croatia are being
addressed progressively by the Government. The problem of restitution of non-State forest land, which
used to be managed by the State, to their owners has been solved in most of the cases; the only pending
problem relates to land formerly owned by the Roman Catholic Church, which is being solved.
Privatization of forest works in State forests is a clear objective of the National Forest Policy (NFP)
which HS is implementing progressively; the proposed project would help HS speed-up and better
organize this process. Privatization of the wood industry is a far more difficult problem and is moving
slowly; the process is expected to benefit from the overall framework set up under the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (EFSAL). Improving the pricing system of roundwood is also an objective of the NFP;
the present system is affecting wood prices to a limited extent only, and the cautious approach taken by
the Government to further improve it should be considered as acceptable in the ongoing transition of the



- 9 -
wood industry. Most of the institutional issues in the forestry sector have been addressed with the
creation of HS, for which only limited organizational improvements would be supported by the project.
B. Impacts of the War
2.27   Croatia's forestry sector in general, and Hrvatske Sume (HS) in particular, have been seriously
affected by the recent war. Damage caused to forests has been assessed outside the territories that have
been occupied for four years; in the latter -- about 30% of the forest land -- war damage is still being
assessed. An estimated 100,000 ha of forests are affected by mine fields; in forest areas affected by
shelling and other war activities, about 15,000 ha have been completely destroyed, of which 11,000 ha
in coastal areas. The war has also severely impacted on wildlife, either because of minefields or
increasing and uncontrolled poaching; red deer, roe deer, and chamois populations are reported to be
strongly affected in general, while bear populations have declined as much as 50% in some areas. The
wood industry has also suffered significantly from the war, mostly because of the disruption of wood
supply from and the loss of markets in the occupied territories.
2.28   The war took a heavy toll on HS: 60 of its employees have been killed and 75 have been
seriously wounded and are invalid; about 40% of HS's workers were drafted in the Army while still paid
by HS; HS had also to contribute in equipment to the Army; and H§ lost significant revenues from
productive forests in occupied territories. The total losses of Ht because of the war are an estimated
US$75 million of which 15% are destroyed infrastructures (i.e. buildings, nurseries, roads, bridges, and
other field facilities), 70% are lost or destroyed equipment (i.e. cars, trucks, harvesting equipment, office
and other equipment), and 15% are other financial losses. Since 1993, H§ has started a reconstruction
effort with its own financial resources and, at the end of 1995 recovered 25% of the total losses; this
effort deals with infrastructures and equipment mainly; less than 5% of the forest area affected by
minefields has been cleaned; no reconstruction of destroyed forests has yet started.
C. The Project Area
2.29   The project would concentrate on the coastal and island forests of Croatia, with a focus on
Dalmatia, where urgent action is needed. Indeed, coastal forests are key assets for the restoration of
tourism in Croatia which is much wanted by the Government; they need immediate attention further to
recent war activities and efficient protection from fire; investment in coastal forest reconstruction and
protection would be well received by the local population and economic operators.
2.30   Economic and Social Features. The population of Dalmatia was estimated to be 1.4 million
before the war, with important population centers such as Zadar, Split, and Dubrovnik. The local
economy of Dalmatia is based primarily on tourism. Prior to 1991, tourism was Croatia's most important
source of foreign exchange. In 1989 and 1990, tourism accounted for about 7 percent of GDP with about
60 million tourist overnights a year. An estimated 92 percent of tourism income was generated on the
Adriatic coast. About 95 percent of all hotel beds are found on the coast; 34 percent are in Dalmatia.
Tourists on the coast spend an average of about 7 days in the country, while tourists in other areas spend
an average of less than two days.
2.31   The war situation has resulted in a drastic drop in income from tourism. In 1991, income from
tourism was less than 14 percent of that in the previous years, accounting for less than 2 percent of a
substantially reduced GDP. By 1994, income from tourism was still at only about 35 percent of pre-war



- 10 -
levels. Even this limited recovery has been very uneven, however. Of the roughly 20 million tourist
overnights in 1994, over half were in Istria, where the tourist presence was about half its pre-war
average. In Dalmatia, on the other hand, the number of tourist overnights was less than 10 percent of
its pre-war levels.
2.32   In terms of agriculture, the Mediterranean agro-ecological zone has never been considered very
important due to its topography and relatively poor soils. Outside of specific wine-growing regions, which
continue to thrive, agriculture and livestock have become less important to the Dalmatian economy over
the past years as more local inhabitants have become involved in tourism activities due to growth in this
sector. This trend appears to be continuing, despite the recent collapse of the tourism sector, and there
is general optimism that the economy will recover. Nevertheless, livestock grazing still exists in most
areas, albeit to a limited extent. Fishing is relatively important to the economy of the coastal zone of
Croatia, given the extensive coastline (5,790 km including the islands). Employment from fishing in 1993
was officially estimated at 1,600 for the entire coast, but other estimates place the number at 2,500
full-time fishermen, with a further 10,000 people fishing part-time, both for recreation and supplementary
income.
2.33   Coastal Forests. Coastal and island forests cover 580,000 ha, including 60,000 ha of high forest,
190,000 ha of coppice, and 330,000 ha of scrub and maquis. Coastal forests (Istria peninsula and
Dalmatia) include the following two main types: (i) Mediterranean forests, closest to the sea, that consist
mainly of holm oak (Quercus ilex) and Aleppo pine (Q. halepensis), with also cluster pine (P. pinaster),
Italian stone pine (P. pinea), and Italian cypress (Cupressus sempervirens); and (ii) sub-Mediterranean
forests that consist mainly of pubescent oak (Q. pubescens) and black pine (P. nigra). Since the Roman
time, these forests have been under intense human pressure for timber, fuel, and grazing, resulting in
large areas dominated by coppices, maquis, garrigue, stony pastures or bare karst. Compared with the
inland, the coastal forests are considerably less stocked; only about 50 m3s ob/ha which is 42 percent of
the average for all forest land in Croatia. The average annual growth is only 1.5 m3s ob/ha, compared
with 4.4 for all HS managed forests.
2.34   Coastal forests of Croatia, the Mediterranean type in particular, deserve immediate attention and
assistance. Indeed, in addition to being the most affected by recent war activities, they have been
neglected in the past, in comparison with inland forests, in terms of protection and management. They
are also most sensitive to fire, mostly of human origin, that ravage a significant area every year. At the
same time the coastal forests are a vital asset for the restoration of the tourist industry, which is by far
the dominating source of income in this part of the country.
2.35   Forest Fires. Forest fires represent the greatest danger for coastal and island forests of Croatia.
They have a very high probability of occurrence, they cause considerable damage, and they are very
difficult to control with the present fire-fighting organization and equipment. Available records on coastal
forest fires in Croatia from 1973 to 1994 show that, in spite of a fairly stable number of fires over the
years, the area burned has increased tremendously. During that period, 4,600 fires have occurred in
which 190,000 ha of forests and forest land were burned, and the annual average area destroyed by fire
was 8,600 ha. The number of fires was about 200 fires per year, but the total area burned annually has
doubled over the past 15 years (i.e., from 5,500 to 12,000 ha) and reached an annual area burnt of 21
ha per 1,000 ha of forest; the area burned per fire has increased from 26 to 62 ha. These figures are
among the highest when compared with similar data from countries with Mediterranean forests facing
similar problems such as Spain, France, Italy, and Greece: the annual area burnt per 1,000 ha ranges
from 7 ha in France to 20 ha in Italy; the area burnt per fire ranges from 8 ha in France to 36 ha in
Greece.



- 11 -
2.36   As regards forest types, statistics show that coppices burn 2.5 times less than the average, other
forests (garrigue and maquis) twice more than the average, and high forests roughly as much as the
average. As regards species, broadleaves appear to be about 3 times more fire resistant than conifers.
A high amount of wood mass makes it more difficult to combat fires. The average area burned increases
with crown cover or density: from about 30 ha/fire for stands with less than 50% cover, to 140 ha/fire
for stands with 100% cover.
2.37   The main results from various studies on the causes of forest fires show that: more than 95% of
fires are caused by human action, most of which is negligence on the part of farmers, tourists, and
facilities managers; about 40% of the total number of fires are caused by agriculture operations, while
other important causes include cigarette butts, at roadside in particular, municipal dumps, railways, and
power lines. However, during the 1991-1993 period, the most frequent cause of forest fires was enemy
shells in the hinterland of the Dalmatian towns of Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Split, and Zadar, which in 1992
alone caused 57 fires in this region.
2.38   Available statistics show that there are clear high risk periods for forest fires, which gives good
indications on when to concentrate specific actions for increased fire control effectiveness and cost
efficiency. In terms of number of fires, there is a great difference between the northern coast (in Istria
and Primorje, 70% of fires start in February, March or April) and the southern coast (in Dalmatia, 70%
of fires start in July or August). In terms of areas burned, the period of peak fire-risk is also July and
August for the whole coast, which corresponds to the two hottest and driest months of the year (with
more than 90% of fire damage). In 1994, three quarters of all fires started in the middle of the day,
between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m., and two thirds between 12 p.m. and 5 p.m., during the hottest hours of the
day. As regards weather, the two primary parameters which influence forest fires are dryness (in
particular the moisture content of dead fine fuels) and wind speed: flammability (relating to the number
of fires) is conditioned by dryness, while fire intensity (relating to the area burned) increases with wind
speed. After several months of drought in the summnertime, the fire danger depends primarily on the
wind. Thus, windy days deserve particular attention during the peak fire-risk period (e.g., in 1994, 60%
of the total area burned was burned within only one windy week).
2.39   There are also high risk areas for forest fires. It is clear that the coastal region is by far the most
fire sensitive part of Croatia (about 95 % of the total burned area in the country in average). Risks of
forest fire on the coast go with the following two gradients: (i) a "South to North" gradient, which means
that fires are more numerous in the southern than in the northern part of the Adriatic coast (about 75 %
of the total area burned annually is in Dalmatia); and (ii) a "Sea to Inland" gradient, which means that
the majority of forest fires and most areas burned (90%) occur in a thin strip along the coast at an altitude
of less than 400 m.
2.40   Prior to independence, forestfire control was far from adequate which was partly the reason for
the high number of forest fires and the high amount of burned areas. Prevention was very weak;
measures to raise public awareness of forest fire problems were minimal; and silvicultural measures
designed to reduce the likelihood and incidence of fires were inadequately implemented. Pre-suppression
was also weak: firebreaks were rare and often poorly maintained, and none incorporated access roads for
fire-fighters; the network of observation posts for fire detection was inadequate; and the communication
system was poor and based on mostly outdated equipment. Fire-fighting forces were not coordinated
properly: aerial fire-fighting, with 4 seaplane air-tankers (CL 215), was under the control of the
ex-Yugoslavian Army while professional fire brigades were under the authority of local municipalities.
Fire-fighting became an impossible task during the recent war period because of disruption in the pre-war
period (in 1990), large fires caused by incendiary bombs (in 1991), lack of equipment (the 4 seaplane air-



- 12 -
tankers were withdrawn from Croatia by the ex-Yugoslavian Army), and the impossibility to fight fires
in areas with mine fields.
2.41   Since the establishment of the Republic of Croatia in 1990, there has been a substantial
improvement in the organization of forest fire management. Protective measures have been incorporated
into forest management plans and fire-fighting forces coordinated under the Ministry of the Interior
(Mol). The latter has developed, and is beginning to implement, a comprehensive strategy -- similar to
strategies for Mediterranean forest fire management adopted in Spain, France, and Italy -- that combines
measures to (i) reduce the number of fires through better prevention, (ii) increase the efficiency of fire
control under high risk conditions with a better evaluation of fire risks and improved detection, and (iii)
reduce initial attack time and improve fire-fighting with better coordination and increased efficiency of
terrestrial and aerial fire-fighting. The latter is a strong element of MoI's strategy which aims at
restoring a meaningful fleet of seaplane air-tankers. Indeed, given Croatia's long coastline (close to 6,000
km including the islands) and the narrowness of the area vulnerable to forest fires (5-10 km on average),
the use of seaplane air-tankers with the capability of refilling their tanks by scooping up seawater provides
the most viable option for aerial fire-fighting. Only two types of aircraft which satisfy this requirement
are available on the market at this stage: the Canadair CL 415 and its predecessor, the Canadair CL 215;
however, another seaplane air-tanker, which would compete with the CL 415, is currently under
development. As a first step in implementing its strategy, the Mol has hired and subsequently purchased
2 second hand air-tankers (CL 215). Because of limited resources and the war situation, however, much
remains to be done to make Mol's strategy fully operational.
2.42   Participation of Populations in Forest Reconstruction and Protection. In general the response
to planned project activities is very favorable. The University of Zagreb has carried out a sociological
analysis of opinions of the inhabitants in the project area based on interviews during September 1995.
A total of 280 people were interviewed from Senj, Zadar, Sibenik/Split and Dubrovnik. The respondents
were taken from a stratified sample in four groups; landowners, tourist workers, livestock owners and
other citizens. All sexes, ages and schooling levels were represented in the study. The results are
presented in a separate study, but some of the highlights are interesting: 25 percent were not interested
in utilizing the wood from the forests; 92 percent felt that reforesting is the right thing to do when a
forest has been burned; cluster pine (Pinus pinaster) is the most popular species to be planted (20
percent), twice as many favored this pine as any other species; poplars is the most unpopular tree species
(16 percent); environmental protection and erosion protection are the absolutely dominating purposes of
forests according to the respondents; 91 percent considered planting seedlings being the best way to
reforest; only 6 percent stated that they would not participate in forest fire protection; 77 percent were
willing to join volunteer fire brigades; 83 percent declared themselves willing to build a fire break over
their own land without compensation; and 89 percent wanted to have qualified personnel if they would
plant on their own land, while only 0.7 percent considered doing it themselves.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.43   The World Bank would support the proposed project, as a priority reconstruction activity, which
should facilitate the restarting of tourism along the Dalmatian coast, restoring economic activity in a
larger sense. Reconstructing coastal forests destroyed by the war and protecting existing coastal forests
from fire are key elements to restore and maintain an attractive landscape in touristic areas. Unless the
visible consequences of the war on coastal landscape is removed, the income potential from tourism will
not be utilized to its full potential. Within the sector, coastal forests also have high priority since (i) the



- 13 -
overall policy framework for the sector, in the ongoing transition, is satisfactory; and (ii) the problems
of inland forestry are adequately being addressed by the Government with its own resources.
2.44   The Government needs the assistance of the World Bank to reach the above goals since the
financial and institutional resources of HS are not sufficient to maintain the high standards of inland forest
management while coping with the backlog of investments and the aftermath of serious war damages
alongside the Dalmatian coast. Moreover, due to the effects of the war, the budgetary allocation to the
Ministry of Interior for fire control in coastal areas is insufficient to establish an essential fire control
system, unless additional financial resources are provided. Assistance from international sources has not
been forthcoming to the extent required. World Bank intervention in the project would (a) provide
investment capital that is directly needed; (b) extend the ongoing Bank support to the reconstruction of
Croatia under the Emergency Reconstruction Project; and (c) result in increased confidence by other
donors in assisting Croatia.
2.45   The project would be consistent with the World Bank forest policy paper, since it is clearly
environmentally protective in a country where the Government is also committed to sustainable and
conservation-oriented forestry. The project is part of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Indeed, the project is identified as one element of the CAS policy objective to rebuild and upgrade war-
damaged infrastructure. The project is also consistent with the special Bank emphasis on the environment
highlighted by the CAS, namely it "would be part of a longer-term program to restore and maintain
favorable ecological conditions in coastal areas in support of tourism. "



- 14 -
CHAPTER III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Summary Description
3.1    Project Objectives. The main objective of the project is to restore and protect forest land in the
coastal zone of Croatia in order to enhance landscape and recreation values of the region and thereby
contribute to restore tourism to its pre-war level. Other objectives related to the project's main objective
are to (i) restore the environmental role of coastal forests destroyed by the war, by protecting soils and
waters, and initiate the restoration of the natural vegetation; (ii) address the problem of forest fire that
is a crucial threat to coastal areas; and (iii) develop the knowledge base for improved management and
protection of coastal forests.
3.2    Summary Description.  The project, to be implemented over 5 years, would include the
following 3 components: (i) reconstruction of coastal forests destroyed by war activities including the
rehabilitation of about 5,800 ha of forests, and the reconstruction of one nursery and one arboretum; (ii)
forest fire management in coastal areas including a comprehensive package of prevention, pre-
suppression, and suppression measures; and (iii) support services including the development of a GIS for
forest fire management, research in coastal forestry, institutional support to Hrvatske Sume (HS) and the
Ministry of Interior (Mol), and project management and monitoring.
B. Detailed Features
Coastal Forest Reconstruction (US$11.9 million')
3.3    Rehabilitation of Coastal Forests (US$9.5 million). The project would support the rehabilitation
of forests affected by war activities along the coast of Croatia, from Senj (Primorje) to Dubrovnik
(Southern Dalmatia). Rehabilitation activities include, first, the reconstruction of 5,000 ha from the
11,000 ha of forests destroyed, in 1991 and 1992, by fires caused mostly directly by incendiary bombs
and rocket attacks or indirectly by other war activities. Forest reconstruction would start with clearing
destroyed stands of burned trees, over about 80% of the area, and would continue with reforestation with
mostly indigenous species. Rehabilitation would also include silvicultural interventions in 800 ha of
young stands in areas affected by war destruction: cleaning of young stands that have regenerated
naturally after the fire, or thinning of young stands that have survived the fire.
3.4    Rehabilitation activities would be carried out in areas selected for their strong touristic and
environmental significance, sometimes combined with wood production potential. Reforestation would
be carried out mostly on State land (4,500 ha), but also on private land (500 ha), since the latter represent
about 10%  of forest land in the project area.  Among the 20 sites initially proposed by HS for
rehabilitation of forests on State land, 10 sites (or 1,250 ha for forest reconstruction and 700 ha for
silvicultural interventions) with proven benefits have been selected for initial project implementation,
based on the economic analysis of the component (see Annex J). Rehabilitation works have been planned
in detail by HS for these sites. During the first year of the project, together with local authorities and
representatives of the Ministry of Tourism, HS would select additional sites for reforestation on State land
and identify the areas where private owners would be eligible to project support. Selection criteria are
IJ  Component costs shown include physical and price contingencies.



- 15 -
derived from the economic analysis of the project (see Annex J); they are based on landscape value --
measured by the size of the landscape affected by forest fires and the number of tourists -- and the
economic cost of forest reconstruction.
3.5    Project supported reforestation is designed to allow for the return of the native climacic forest
communities after one rotation, on the basis of past research efforts to reintroduce trees in the karst
region. In each site, a mixture of mostly indigenous Mediterranean coniferous species would be selected
on the basis of their adaptability to local harsh and sometime degraded conditions, their capacity to serve
as cover crops for indigenous oaks to regenerate, their value as shade and landscaping trees in the vicinity
of tourism facilities, and their potential resistance to fire. Selected indigenous species would be pines (P.
halepensis, pinea, pinaster, and nigra) and cypress (C. sempervirens); few exotic species, such as Cedrus
atlantica. would be used in a small amount mostly for their landscape value.  Based on the
recommendations of the environmental review of the project, selected indigenous broadleaf species (e.g.,
Fraxinus ornus and Ostrya carpinigolia) would also be planted, in mixture with coniferous species, in
sites where this is technically feasible (e.g., in the Dubrovnik area); broadleaves plantation would be
extended to other sites, based on the results of relevant research activities funded under the project.
3.6    The best planting stock would be used in reforestation. Seeds would be collected only from
known and registered sources, and containerized seedlings would be used in order to maximize survival
and initial growth under the dry conditions of project area. Soil preparation before planting would be
done either mechanically by ripping (2,000 ha on State land) or manually (2,500 ha on State land, and
500 ha on private land), depending on the site conditions. The standard planting density would be 3 m
by 3 m or 1,111 seedlings per ha; planting would take place in late fall or early winter, after the first
rains; tending of plantations would start in spring and last over 3 years. The average unit costs per ha
for reforestation activities would be US$340 for clearing sites of burned trees, US$1,270 for planting with
ripping, and US$1,110 for planting with manual soil preparation.
3.7    HS would be responsible for rehabilitation of forests on State land. Reforestation on private land
would be done by the private owner, with the technical assistance of HS and under the control of the
Zupanija Forestry Inspector, under a contract between the owner and HS. The model for this contract
(see Annex F) has been agreed upon by HS, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) and the
Bank. Reforestation works would be funded with a State capital grant which would be channeled to the
beneficiary through the "Fund for Biological Reproduction in Private Forest" currently administered by
HS. It was agreed that the capital grant would be US$1,400 per ha, which corresponds to the total cost
of manual planting of Italian stone pine (Pinus pinea). The private owner would have the option to plant
more expensive fruit crops but the capital grant would remain the same as such crops will give earlier
returns.
3.8    Reconstruction of a Nursery in Zadar (US$2.2 million). The project would support the
construction of a new nursery to replace the nursery of Crno, in the vicinity of Zadar, that has been
completely destroyed during the fighting around that city in 1991. The site of Piket, close to the airport
of Zadar, has been selected by HS with the agreement of the MAF; the latter undertook to transfer to the
former the State-owned agriculture land that is necessary to establish the nursery. The nursery would
be established as a modern production unit, with an annual capacity of 1 million containerized seedlings;
the nursery would only grow seedlings of species utilized in reforestation programs in the coastal areas.
The project would fund (i) the construction of the access roads, the building of the nursery, and the water
supply system; (ii) the establishment of the area to grow containerized seedlings; and (iii) the modern
equipment and machinery needed for the new nursery.



- 16 -
3.9    Reconstruction of the Arboretum in Trsteno (US$0.2 million). The project would also support
the reconstruction of the arboretum in Trsteno, close to Dubrovnik. This arboretum is one of the most
ancient in the world, since it has been established in the 15th century, and contains a wealth of indigenous
and exotic species; it was badly damaged by fire during the war activities around Dubrovnik in late 1991
and early 1992. The project would fund the replacement of the main water supply line, the reopening
of the firebreaks around the garden, the replacement of some critical machinery, and green house
rehabilitation.
Forest Fire Management (US$47.9 million)
3.10   The project would provide major improvement to the existing system of fire management for
coastal forests of Croatia, by enhancing the capability for fire-fighting as well as fire prevention, and
thereby reduce the area of forests burned each year. The project would support the comprehensive forest
fire management strategy developed by the Government which aims at (i) increasing the resistance of
forest stands to fire; (ii) reducing the number of fires; (iii) reducing initial attack time, and improving
fire-fighting capacity; and (iv) increasing the efficiency of fire-fighting under high risk conditions. The
proposed strategy includes a comprehensive package of prevention, pre-suppression, and suppression
activities that are presented in the Table 3.1 below.
TABLE 3.1: FOREST FIRE MANAGEMENT AcTIvfIfEs
Prevention             Increasing Resistance of Forests  Reducing the Number of Fires
to Fires
Actions towards Populations
Roadside Forests Cleaning                      *
Thinning in Dense Stands                       0
Pre-Suppression & Suppression    Reducing Initial Attack Time    Increasing Efficiency
& Improving Fire-Fighting   under High Risk Conditions
Pre-Suppression
. Weather Forecast System                                                    0
Lookout Towers & Equipment                     0
Observers & Patrols                            *
Fire-Fighting Roads
Suppression
Telecommunication System                       *
Aerial Fire-Fighting                           0
Terrestrial Fire-Fighting
3.11   The proposed blend of prevention, pre-suppression, and suppression activities is designed to
complement the existing forest fire management capacity into a system with the highest cost-effectiveness.
It is also designed to fit local conditions in terms of (i) physical environment (i.e. Mediterranean forests
located on a long coast and in many islands); (ii) fire-fighting methods (i.e. strong reliance on aerial fire-
fighting with seaplane air-tankers capable of scooping-up seawater, in combination with terrestrial fire-
fighting); and (iii) current fire detection and fire-fighting arrangements involving local services of the MoI
and of H§, the Municipalities, and professional and volunteer fire-brigades. The proposed sharing of
project funding for prevention, pre-suppression, and suppression is similar to current distribution of
funding for forest fire management in other countries with Mediterranean forests facing the same problem
as Croatia. However, the relative share of prevention under the project is higher than usual given the



- 17 -
fact that the project would fund exceptional reconstruction investments for pre-suppression and
suppression.
3.12   Prevention (US$3.3 million). Forest fire prevention is essential in the proposed forest fire
management strategy, since suppression activities alone could not address the problem of forest fires in
coastal Croatia. Proposed prevention activities aim at reducing the number of fires and increasing the
resistance of forests to fires, once they have started. The project would assist in the following:
(i)    Action towards Populations. Since most of the fires are caused by the rural population during
agricultural and forest operations, and tourists during the summer period, the project would
support specific actions to alert these two groups to the damage of forest fires.  Indeed,
experience in other Mediterranean countries has shown that action towards populations needs to
be clearly targeted to be efficient. Each of these groups would be approached in a specific way
in order to raise their level of attention to the problem of fires, develop a stronger sense of
personal responsibility, and a better information on legal limitations and appropriate ways of
using and controlling fire. The approach would be informative, educational, and one which
appeals. However, the funding of this activity has been dimensioned (i.e., about one third of
prevention costs) knowing that actions towards populations become less successful when the risk
of fire increases. The project would fund the development and distribution of the following: (i)
targeted letters, video material, and radio messages for farmers; and (ii) brochures, video
material, posters, and radio messages in foreign languages for tourists in the summer;
(ii)    Roadside Forests Cleaning. Since many accidental fires start on roadside, the project would
support increased vegetation cleaning (removal of the flammable undergrowth and pruning of the
lower branches of trees on a 25m-wide strip) in forests bordering roads with significant traffic.
This would contribute to reducing the number of fires and increasing the resistance of roadside
forests to fires. The project would fund cleaning over 560 ha of roadside forests identified by
HS, corresponding to about 150 km of roads; this would be additional to a minimum program
which HS would carry out anyway without the project;
(iii)   Thinning. The project would contribute to reducing the amount of flammable material in pine
stands in high risk locations, in order to increase their resistance to fire. The project would fund
thinning and pruning of lower branches over 1,200 ha in sensitive areas identified by HS; this
would also be additional to a minimum program which Hs would carry out anyway without the
project.
3.13   Pre-Suppression (US$6.2 million). Pre-suppression activities supported by the project would
considerably improve the capacity to forecast the occurrence of forest fires, to detect forest fires as soon
as they have started, and to access burning areas for further terrestrial fire-fighting. The project would
assist in the following:
(i)    Weather Forecast System. The project would support the reconstruction of an efficient "fire
weather forecast system" that would allow for advanced and accurate forecast of dryness and
wind mainly, and would be essential to develop a special strategy for forest fire management
during the high risk period. The project would help establish a network linking meteorological
stations on the coast and on the islands, by funding meteorological, telecommunication, computer
equipment, and relevant training;



- 18 -
(ii)   Improved Detection. The project would fund a package of measures to ensure early detection
of and reaction to forest fires (i.e., a maximum of 10 minutes in average after it has started).
Four new lookout towers would be established to complement the existing network of 16 towers;
lookout equipment would be provided for these 4 additional towers and for 20 additional lookout
points that would be operated during the high risk period. The project would also fund, from
the Government contribution, the observers operating the lookout towers and points, and the
additional patrols needed during the high risk period;
(iv)   Fire-Fighting Roads. The project would complement the network of existing roads utilized for
forest fire-fighting in coastal areas: 500 km of fire-fighting roads would be established including
400 km within forest areas and 100 km outside forest areas. Fire-fighting roads would be sited
according to the following criteria: (a) altitude below 400 m, where the risks of fires are the
highest; (b) priority to areas with interface between open lands and forests, where most of the
fires start and where the chances to control them are the highest; (c) terrain slope below 40%,
where terrestrial fire-fighting is the most efficient; and (d) compliance with stream protection
requirements, as highlighted under the environmental review of the project. Fire-fighting roads
would be constructed according to standards -- addressing erosion and drainage concerns --
approved by the Bank.
3.14   Suppression (US$38.4 million). The project would support a major increase in the capacity to
combat forest fires -- when they have started -- in coastal Croatia, by funding the equipment necessary
for an efficient integration of terrestrial and aerial fire-fighting. The project would assist in the following:
(i)    Telecommunication System. The project would provide the minimum equipment necessary to
establish a comprehensive telecommunication system, in order to both reduce the initial attack
time and increase the efficiency of available fire-fighting forces. The system would be adapted
to local conditions and present fire detection and fire-fighting arrangements. The equipment
funded by the project would include diverse stationary (e.g. radio equipment for the Mol and HS
services in the 7 coastal Zupanija; "repeaters" for pagers) and mobile (e.g. radio equipment for
aircraft and vehicles, pagers) telecommunication equipment;
(ii)    Aerial Fire-Fighting. The project would support improved aerial fighting of forest fires in two
ways with:
(a)    the purchase of a new and modern seaplane air-tanker (indicative technical requirements
are presented in Appendix 1 to the Project Implementation Plan in Annex B) to
complement the existing 2 second hand seaplane air-tankers (CL 215). This would be
the central element of the forest fire management component (about 50 % of the total cost
of the latter) in order to increase fire-fighting capacity, and the essential step to provide
Croatia with a minimal, but meaningful, fleet of seaplane air-tankers;
(b)    the reconstruction of aircraft facilities (including one hangar for air-tankers, and the pilot
building) destroyed by the war in the airbase of Zemunik, near Zadar, which is central
to aerial fire-fighting; and the establishment of stand-by facilities in the airbases of Pula,
Split and Dubrovnik in order to facilitate aircraft operation and reduce initial attack time;
(iii)   Terrestrial Fire-Fighting. Twenty four fire brigades in the 7 coastal Zupanija would be provided
with the equipment necessary to bring their fire-fighting capacity up to acceptable standards. This
equipment would include 30 fire-fighting trucks adapted to forest fire conditions, and the



- 19 -
equipment and training necessary to establish 15 specialized teams of "smoke jumpers", that
would complement existing fire-fighting forces in inaccessible areas.
Support Services (US$7.5 million)
3.15   GIS for Fire-Fighting Operational Centers (US$1.8 million). A Geographic Information
System (GIS) -- including computer hardware, software, databases, and relevant training -- would be
developed and funded under the project in order to make the Operational Centers, established by the Mol,
more efficient for the overall and permanent operational control of forest fire management in Croatia.
The Operational Centers are supposed to collect and process current data about forest fires and the status
of fire-fighting capacities, and make immediate decisions to organize and coordinate forest fire-fighting
activities. They are organized into one "State Operational Center", in Zagreb, that coordinates 6 local
Operational Centers, the above-mentioned Weather Forecast System, and a forest fire Operational Center
located in HS. A workplan was agreed upon with the Mol, in which a dispatching system for fire-
fighting forces, necessary data on forest conditions, and models of fire hazards and fire development
would be developed in parallel, with the aim that a system would begin deployment to an initial group
of Operational Centers after two years, after a year of development and a year-long pilot test involving
a single Operational Center.
3.16   Research (US$4.4 million). The project would support research activities and testing of new
methods in order to improve the efficiency and technical quality of reforestation efforts and forest fire
management in the project area. These activities would focus on three main aspects. First, a forestry
research program would address key issues in coastal forestry that have been neglected so far. The
Forestry Research Institute (FRI) would be directly responsible for sub-programs on: breeding of the
Aleppo pine (P. halepensis), which is indeed a very important species for coastal forestry due to its
pioneering capability; establishing non-tree cover crops for site amelioration; nursery techniques; and fire
resistant species. The FRI would sub-contract the Forest Faculty at Zagreb University to carry out sub-
programs on: broadleaf and conifer silviculture; utilization of Aleppo pine; utilization of chipping debris;
and costing standards for plantation establishment. Second, the Mol would be responsible for carrying
out a specific research program for the development of the above GIS, including the assessment of the
risks for forest fires under the specific conditions of coastal Croatia, and the development of models of
fire hazards. Third, new methods of aerial fire-fighting would be tested by the Mol in order to further
reduce the initial attack time; a test with rented land-based initial attack air-planes would be conducted
over 3 years. The project would also fund the experimental utilization of foam and retardant in order
to improve the efficiency of fire-fighting with air-tankers.
3.17   Institutional Strengthening (US$0.5 million).  The project would help Hg restore its
profitability by funding technical assistance to (i) develop and adopt, by project mid-term review, an
efficient cost accounting system -- which would clearly separate commercial from non-commercial
activities -- together with the adoption of international accounting standards; (ii) develop a plan to
complete the ongoing privatization of non-core assets with a focus on assessing priority sectors for further
privatization, and suitable privatization timetable; and (iii) address human resources issues in relation with
the implementation of the privatization plan, and the necessary reduction in administrative staff. The
focus would be on supporting progressive transfer of employees from the public to the private sectors,
and on management training programs for former Hg employees who would establish themselves as new
entrepreneurs. Training and technical assistance would also be provided to Mol to (i) improve the
organization of field activities of forest fire pre-suppression and suppression in coastal zones of Croatia;
and (ii) help the Mol prepare technical specifications and bidding documents for the purchase of
specialized equipment (i.e., aircraft, meteorological and GIS equipment). This would include study tours



- 20 -
to countries and organizations facing problems similar to those in Croatia, and assistance from
international experts.
3.18   Project Management and Monitoring (US$0.7 million). The project would fund (i) the Project
Management Unit (PMU), that would be responsible for coordinating project implementation (see para.
4.5); and (ii) the project monitoring and evaluation system (see para. 4.11).
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.19   Project Costs.  The total project costs including contingencies are estimated at Kuna356.5
million (US$67.3 million). Project cost summary is presented in Table 3.2. Detailed project costs are
given in Annex A. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$43.3 million, or about 64
percent of total project costs. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to all investment
and recurrent costs. Price contingencies have been estimated at 5 percent of the base costs2. Taxes and
duties amount to 13 percent of total project costs (US$8.7 million equivalent).
TABLE 3.2: ESrMATED COSTS
US$ '000 Equivalent            %        % Total
Local     Foreign      Total     Foreign      CBostes
1. Coastal Forest Reconstruction             6,642      3,482      10,124       34          17
2. Forest Fire Management                   10,284     31,644      41,928        75          72
3. Support Services                          3,187      3,164       6,351        50          11
Total Base Costs                            20,113     38,291      58,403        66         100
Physical Contingencies                   2,011      3,829       5,840        66          10
Price Contingencies                       1,810      1,205      3,015        40           5
Total Project Costs                         23,934     43,325      67,259        64         115
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
3.20   Project Financing. Project financing would involve:
* the Government. A budgetary contribution of US$11 million, or 16 percent of total project
costs, is necessary to fund (i) reforestation on private land; (ii) local costs (including taxes) of
the reconstruction of the Trsteno arboretum and of project investments under the responsibility
of the Mol and MAF; and (iii) recurrent costs of project activities under the responsibility of the
Mol and MAF;
* the World Bank. The World Bank would be ready to consider a Multiple Currency Pool Loan
amounting to US$42 million equivalent, or 62 percent of total project costs. The World Bank
loan would fund all direct and indirect foreign costs of project investments net of taxes and
duties. A portion of the loan amount (US$7.5 million) would be passed through the Ministry of
Finance to HS to finance foreign costs of project activities under its financial responsibility. This
2/The price contingency calculation is based on projection of the Manufacturer's Unit Value Index for foreign costs (2.6% in
1996/97, 2.8% in 1997/98 and 1998/99, 2.9% in 1999/00 and 2000101), and projection of local inflation for local costs
(3.5% annual increase).



- 21 -
portion of the loan would be repaid by Hs to the Ministry of Finance under a Subsidiary
Agreement that would be entered into between the Borrower and HS, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; the signature of the Subsidiary Agreement would
condition the effectiveness of the loan;
* Hrvatske gume. HS's own resources, in the amount of US$14.3 million, would fund local costs
(including taxes) of investments, and recurrent costs for project activities for which HS is
financially responsible (i.e., the activities listed in Table 4.1, except for the reforestation on
private land and the reconstruction of the Trsteno arboretum that would be financed by the
budget). The participation of HS in project financing and repayment of the loan would be funded
out of the fiscal transfers made to HS (see paras. 2.18 and 2.24).
3.21   The respective share of the Government, the World Bank, and HS for each component is given
in Table 3.3 below.
TABLE 3.3: FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENTS
(US$ million)
Components                                     GOC       WB        HS      Total
Coastal Forest Reconstruction                   0.9       4.0       7.0      11.9
Forest Fire Management                          7.7      34.4       5.8     47.9
Support Services                                2.4       3.6       1.5      7.5
TOTAL                                           11.0     42.0      14.3     67.3
D. Fiscal and Financial Sustainability
3.22   The present financial support from the State to coastal forests -- including budgetary allocation
to Mol, tax transfers channeled through HS and the Mol, and some transfer of HS's own commercial
resources from continental forests -- is constrained and permits only to finance the surveillance and
maintenance of existing forests and rudimentary forest fire control; it is not sufficient to invest in the
reconstruction of key forest areas destroyed by the war, and in the establishment of an efficient system
to protect coastal forests from fire hazards. The project would make it possible to overcome the financial
constraints of the present transition period, and finance necessary reconstruction and development
investments now. The project would also help develop sustained State financing of the protection of the
coastal forests in the future by (i) contributing to the generation of increased fiscal resources; and (ii)
helping HS address its current and temporary decrease in profitability.
3.23   Increased Fiscal Resources. The reconstruction of war ravaged touristic forest landscape and
the development of reassuring protection of coastal environment from fire hazards would participate in
restoring Croatia's tourism industry. It is difficult to predict the fiscal impact of the recovery of the
tourist sector, since the tax system is undergoing profound transformations. Indeed, tourism was largely
exempt from turnover taxes in the past, so that its contribution to fiscal income has been primarily
indirect, through income taxes paid by people employed in the sector. Beginning in 1997, tourism will
be subject to the VAT which is replacing turnover taxes. However, the tourism tax, which is levied on
hotel nights, gives an indication of the likely fiscal impact of the recovery of the tourist sector. At its
current average level of about 1.5DEM per night, the tax is generating about US$21 million. Once
tourism recovers to pre-war levels of about 60 million overnights, the tax will generate about US$64



- 22 -
million annually, an increase of over US$40 million from this tax alone. Such an increase would be
about 15 time the amount of incremental recurrent costs from project financed activities together with the
repayment of the Bank loan.
3.24  Improved Financial Situation of HI. The analysis of the financial situation of HS (see Annex
E) shows that the profitability of HS, which was significant in 1993, has decreased in 1994 and 1995,
and that the capacity of HS to invest is likely to be affected. However, this trend is temporary since the
financial situation of HS will improve with (i) peace (HS's participation in the military effort of the
country as well as the burden of the reconstruction effort will decrease rapidly); and (ii) the recuperation
of occupied territories (production from productive forests there will resume). In addition, the project
will help Hg address potential financial problems by providing technical assistance to improve its financial
management, and to plan the privatization of non-core activities.
E. Project Procurement Arrangements
3.25   Procurement under the project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank guidelines
(Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995). A Procurement Plan indicating the
main procurement packages financed under the project is in Annex B. Project procurement arrangements
are summarized in the Table 3.4 below and will be undertaken in the following manner.
3.26   Procurement of Works. The manual forest works on State land including reforestation of coastal
forests, thinning, and roadside forests cleaning -- aggregate financing amounting to US$1.4 million or
25 percent of loan-financed works -- would be done on Force Account (FA) by Hrvatske Sume (HS).
There are no contractors currently available to carry out this type of activity and HS has been judged to
be fully capable of carrying out these tasks by FA. Certification of the works done by HS would be
carried out by the State Forest Inspectorate in the MAF. The quality and performance of the work will
be monitored by the Forestry Research Institute (FRI) which is independent from H§. Cost and
production standards for the various work involved have been agreed upon and Bank disbursements will
be linked to the production of predetermined physical units, such as hectares of forest planted, thinned
or cleaned. The first year's average unit costs have been agreed upon during appraisal and will be
revised annually based on actual costs as determined by the new accounting system which will be
introduced as part of the technical assistance to HS.
3.27   Contracts for works other than manual forest works estimated at less than US$500,000 and more
than US$50,000 each -- aggregate financing amounting to US$3.0 million or 55 percent of loan-financed
works -- would be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. NCB procedures would be utilized for the following works: large contracts for ripping in
reforestation works, establishment of fire-fighting roads, reconstruction of infrastructures in the nursery
in Piket, and establishment of stand-by facilities for airplanes.
3.28   The remaining 20 percent of Loan funded works would be procured according to the following
procedures:
* ICB for the reconstruction of aircraft facilities in Zemunik (financing amounting to US$0.72
million). The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used;



- 23 -
* Minor Works (MW) estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract -- aggregate financing
amounting to US$0.4 million -- including ripping in reforestation works, reconstruction of
infrastructures in the arboretum of Trsteno, and construction of lookout towers. MW would also
be utilized for reforestation works on private land, for which the project would give a capital
grant through the "Fund for Biological Reproduction in Private Forest": land owners contracting
reforestation would use MW, and land owners carrying out these works with their own labor
would also use MW to procure small implements, seedlings, and other materials required. These
minor works will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. A basic
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank and the invitation shall include a detailed description
of works, including the required completion period, basic specifications, and relevant drawings,
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully
complete the contract.
3.29   Procurement of Goods. The purchase of a new seaplane air-tanker and spare parts (financing
amounting to US$24.1 million or about 57% of the loan and 70% of the loan-financed goods) will be
carried out through Limited International Bidding (LIB). At this stage, only two manufacturers are
expected to be able to meet the technical requirements of the fire-fighting air-tanker considered by the
project.   The purchase of equipment for the Forest Fire Management component -- i.e., the
telecommunication system,-fire-fighting trucks, field vehicles, and computer hardware and software for
the GIS sub-component -- would be carried out through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures (aggregate financing amounting to US$8.4 million or about 23% of loan-financed goods).
Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$300,000 or above would be procured through ICB. In the
evaluation and comparison of bids for equipment to be procured through ICB, Croatian manufacturers
would receive a domestic preference in bid in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
3.30   The remaining 7 percent of loan-financed goods would be in minor packages suitable for
procurement methods other than ICB as follows:
* International Shopping (IS) for goods estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per contract --
aggregate financing amounting to US$1.9 million -- such as specialized equipment including
nursery, meteorological, and scientific equipment, and foam and retardant for testing new
methods of aerial fire-fighting for the Coastal Forest Reconstruction, Forest Fire Management,
and Support Services components respectively. The IS method is based on comparison of at least
three quotations from suppliers in at least two eligible countries;
* National Shopping (NS) for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract --
aggregate financing amounting to US$0.65 million -- including, PMU office furniture and
equipment, fertilizers, forest cleaning and thinning material and field equipment for the Forest
Research Institute. This method is based on comparison of at least three quotations from local
suppliers.
3.31   Procurement of Services. Contracts for services procured on a sole source basis --- aggregate
financing amounting to US$0.7 million -- would include: (i) forest research activities carried out by the
Forest Research Institute (FRI); and (ii) monitoring and evaluation of the project activities undertaken by
the FRI, the Croatia Ecological Society, and the Institute of Tourism. Contracts for other services
procured on a competitive basis -- aggregate financing amounting to US$1.5 million -- would include:



- 24 -
(i) renting land-based initial attack airplanes for testing new methods of aerial fire-fighting, under LIB
procedures; (ii) training and technical assistance provided to HS and Mol by qualified firms selected in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981); and (iii) consultant
services for the action towards populations sub-component and for GIS research activities provided by
local or international experts selected on the basis of a short list.
3.32   Retroactive Financing. Construction works for the aircraft facilities in Zemunik -- which are
needed prior to aircraft purchasing -- would be procured under ICB and would be financed retroactively
up to US$0.72 million, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on retroactive financing.
3.33   Responsibilities. Procurement would be the responsibility of the Project Management Unit
(PMU), which would be established in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (see para. 4.5), with
inputs from both MoI and HS for their respective areas of implementation. A positive assessment of the
capability of the borrower to carry out procurement procedures has been made. Their capabilities have
been strengthened through in-country training work shops, ongoing training and will be further
strengthened through support in Bank procurement during the implementation of the project and through
the use of standard bidding documents. A one-week project start-up seminar, focusing on project
implementation arrangements including procurement, will take place at the time of loan effectiveness,
tentatively planned for October 1996. A General Procurement Notice was published in the Development
Business in July 1996.
3.34   Procurement Review. The Bank would conduct a prior review of all ICB and LIB procurement
packages and the first two NCB, IS and NS packages. In addition, Bank's prior review will be required
for all Terms of Reference, sole-sourcing, specialized services and hiring procedures of consultants firms
above US$100,000 and individuals above US$50,000. Other contracts, including force account activities
under para. 3.26, would be subject to post reviews in accordance with Bank procedures. The Bank's
standard bidding documents will be used for ICB and NCB packages and for the recruitment of
consultants. Assurances on all procurement procedures have been obtained during negotiations.



- 25 -
TABLE 3.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREmENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Category of Expenditure                        ICB          NCB         Other      NBF       Total
1. Works
1.1  Construction Works                                    1.8          6.1         0.2a'        -        8.1
(0.7)        (2.8)       (0.1)                (3.6)
1.2  Forest Works                                           -           0.4        10.V          -       11.1
-          (0.2)       (1.7)                (1.9)
2. Goods
2.1  Aircraft                                               -             -        24.1c/        -       24.1
-                     (24.1)                (24.1)
2.2  Other Fire-Fighting Vehicles and                      3.8            -           -          -        3.8
Equipment                                            (3.8)                                         (3.8)
2.3  Telecommunication, Computing and PMU                  4.1            -         1.7d/        -        5.8
Office Equipment                                     (3.9)                    (1.7)                 (5.6)
2.4  Fertilizers and Forestry Research Materials            -             -          1.2e/       -        1.2
(0.8)                (0.8)
3. Services
3.1  Technical Services                                     -             -         4.9'         -        4.9
(1.7)                (1.7)
3.2  Training and Technical Assistance                      -             -         1.0k'        -        1.0
(0.5)                (0.5)
4. Recurrent Costs                                              -            -           -         7.3        7.3
(0.0)    (0.0)
Total                                9.7          6.5         43.8        7.3      67.3
(8.4)        (3.0)      (30.6)      (0.0)    (42.0)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IERD. NBF: Not Bank Financed
a - Minor Works (aggregate amount loan-financed: US$100,000) for civil works for water supply, prefabricated research building,
lookout towers ranging between US$20,000-50,000 procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors.
b - Force Account for forestry work performed by Hrvatske Sume on the basis of agreed cost and production standards (aggregate
amount loan-financed: US$1.2 million) and Minor Works for planting works (tractor operation) procured under lump sum,
fixed price contracts (ranging between US$20,000-50,000) awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors (aggregate amount loan-financed: US$0.3 million); capital grant for reforestation on private land (aggregate
amount loan-financed: US$0.2 million).
c - Limited International Bidding due to the very small number of manufacturers.
d - Intemational Shopping (aggregate amount loan-financed: US$1.7 million) for 20 packages ranging between US$50,000-300,000
for weather forecast, telecommunication, forestry machinery and equipment; National Shopping (aggregate amount US$50,000)
for office furniture and equipment and one vehicle.
e - Intemational Shopping (aggregate amount loan-financed: US$199,000) for forestry and GIS research material; National Shopping
(aggregate amount loan-financed: US$613,000) for 18 packages ranging from US$5,000-50,000 for ferdlizers and other forestry
material.
f - Technical service contract for US$1.1 million for testing new fire-suppression methods, procured under LIB; service contracts
(aggregate amount loan-financed: US$0.6 million) for forestry research, laboratory tests and GIS software development,
procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants.
g - Training, study tour and technical assistance (aggregate amount loan-financed: US$549,000) for staff of Hrvatske Sume,
Ministry of Interior and Ministry of Agnculture on coastal forestry management and forestry fire prevention and suppression.



- 26 -
F. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement
3.35   The loan is expected to be disbursed over six years; the loan closing date is June 30, 2002.
Disbursements will be made as shown in Table 3.5 below.
TABLE 3.5: DISBURSEMENT TABLE
(US$ millions)
WORLD BANK FISCAL YEAR
1997      1998      1999   2000    2001      2002
Annual              1.5       6.2      25.0    6.3       1.8      1.2
Cumulative          1.5       7.7      32.7   39.0    40.8       42.0
3.36   Disbursement categories are shown in Table 3.6 below. Disbursements against contracts for works
exceeding US$500,000, contracts for goods exceeding US$300,000, and contracts for services exceeding
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals would be made against standard documentation.
For contracts below the above thresholds and for works under Force Account and training disbursements
would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); the appropriate documentation will be
retained by the project management unit and kept available for examination by Bank missions. For
activities conducted through Force Account by HS disbursement will be linked to cost and production
standards; the first year's average unit costs have been agreed upon during project appraisal and will be
revised annually based on actual costs. Evidence of expenditures made on Force Account would be
retained by the MAF (State Forest Inspectorate) and would be subject to World Bank review and
approval.
TABLE 3.6: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
(US$ thousand)
Amount   Percentage of expenditures to be
financeda'
1. Construction Works                3,400              45%
2. Forest Works:
Force Account                   1,300               20%
Private Land Reforestation        200               20%
3. Goods                            27,600    100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost); 85% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
4. Technical Services                1,500              40%
5. Training and Tech. Assistance      500               50%
Unallocated                          7,500
TOTAL                               42,000
al net of taxes and duties



- 27 -
3.37   Disbursements for reconstruction of coastal forests on private land would be made against
statements by the MAF certifying that reforestation work supported by the "Fund for Biological
Reproduction in Private Forest" is eligible to project funding. Evidence of expenditures made by land
owners for reforestation on private land would be retained by the MAF (State Forest Inspectorate) and
would be subject to World Bank review and approval.
3.38   A Special Account denominated in US Dollars would be established in a bank acceptable to the
World Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. During the early stage of the project,
the initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to a proposed US$1 million. However,
when the aggregate disbursement under the Loan would have reached the level of US$6 million, the
initial allocation would be increased up to a proposed US$2 million. The authorized allocations have
been agreed upon during the negotiations of the Loan. The Special Accounts would be administered and
replenished in accordance with Bank guidelines.
G. Environment Impact
3.39   Since the project has strong environmental focus and components, it has been given the
Environmental Category "B" designation: "Projects/Components Which May Have Specific
Environmental Impacts - More Limited Environmental Analysis Appropriate". The World Bank and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) agreed on the Terms of Reference for an Environmental
Review (ER) during the first Bank mission following project preparation. After reviewing a list of
possible institutions which would be capable of carrying out the ER, it was jointly decided by the MAF
and the World Bank mission that the Croatia Ecological Society (CES), an NGO group, was the most
appropriate institution to carry out the ER. The CES has carried out the ER during summer and early
fall 1995; the preliminary conclusions of the CES were discussed by the MAF, selected environimental
NGOs, and the Bank during project pre-appraisal in October 1995; and the CES sent a draft report to the
Bank in December 1995. The Bank has approved the conclusions made by CES, and has made particular
comments regarding the mitigation of some potentially negative effects of particular project activities.
During project appraisal, the conclusions of the ER and the comments by the Bank have been discussed
by the latter with the MAF, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for the Conservation of Cultural
and Natural Heritage, and the CES, and have been integrated in project design. Only the conclusions
made by CES are presented in Annex K.
3.40   CES concludes that the project would have an overall important and positive effect on the coastal
environment, in comparison of which the potentially negative impacts identified during the review would
be very small. As regards the latter, the main concerns raised by CES, together with the corresponding
mitigation measures now integrated in the project, are the following:
* the species composition in reforestation activities should include more broadleaves in order to
speed-up the re-establishment of the climacic vegetation; under the project, selected indigenous
broadleaf species (e.g., Fraxinus ornus and Ostrya carpinigolia)) would be planted, in mixture
with coniferous species, in sites where this is technically feasible (e.g., in the Dubrovnik area);
broadleaves plantation would be extended to other sites based on the results of relevant research
activities funded under the project;
* the use of fertilizers in reforestation activities may have negative impacts on the environment;
under the project, no fertilization will be done without a previous foliar analysis to determine the



- 28 -
composition of the fertilizer that would be needed. Foliar analysis would be carried out if
plantations had an unhealthy aspect only, normally not before two years of age;
project activities may have adverse effects on coastal fresh water ecosystems; under the project,
no mechanical soil preparation or road building is to take place within 50 meters distance from
water-courses. Special attention would be given to spawning areas, based on a map detailing
sensitive spawning areas annexed to the ER.
3.41   The standards for the establishment of fire-fighting roads, which was a Bank concern before
appraisal, are considered acceptable by the latter and the CES, now that they include more detailed
indications on technical parameters for various site conditions (see Appendix 1 in Annex H). CES has
not identified the utiization of sea water to suppress forest fires as a serious environmental problem.
Indeed, forest soil will not be affected permanently since rains -- of which there is an adequate supply
during fall, winter and early spring -- will easily leach the salt from the soil. The probability that fire
suppression will be necessary again in the same forest is very small (if it does happen at least 10 years
will have elapsed). In addition, most Mediterranean species have adapted to the effect of salt in their
habitats. CES has also proposed a monitoring program on floral and faunal indicators, with a strong
emphasis on the latter, which is integrated in the overall project monitoring and evaluation system (see
para. 4.10).



- 29 -
CHAPTER IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Responsibilities and Management
4.1    The responsibilities for implementing project activities would be shared between (i) the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF), which would have overall responsibility over the project; (ii)
Hrvatske Sume (HS), as specified in the Project Agreement; and (iii) the Ministry of Interior (Mol),
which would be responsible for coordinating most of the Forest Fire Management component. Particular
project activities, mostly under the Support Services component, would be contracted either by HS or the
Mol to other Government agencies and to an NGO. Project management would be the responsibility of
MAF, with the support of a Project Steering Committee and a Project Management Unit.
4.2    Responsibilities. The responsibilities for implementing project activities would be shared between
HS and Mol according to Table 4.1 below.
TABLE 4.1: RESPONSIBILITES
Project Activities                Hrvatske hume (0)   Ministry of Interior (0)
and MAF
Coastal Forest Reconstruction
. Rehabilitation of Coastal Forests                   o
. Reconstruction of the Nursery in Zadar              0
Reconstruction of the Arboretum in Trsteno           o
Forest Fire Management
. Prevention
Action towards Populations                                               0
Roadside Forests Cleaning                          o
Thinning                                           0
. Pre-Supression
Weather Forecast System                                                  0
Improved Detection                                 0
Fire-Fighting Roads                                o
. Suppression
Telecommunication System                                                0
Aerial Fire-Fighting                                                     0
Terrestrial Fire-Fighting                                               o
Support Services
. GIS for Fire-Fighting Operational Centers                                  0
. Research
Forestry Research                                  o
GIS Research                                                             0
New Methods / Aerial Fire-Fighting                                      o
. Institutional Strengthening
Hrvatske Sume                                      o
Mol                                                                      o
. Proiect Management and Monitorinu                   MAF



- 30 -
4.3    Project activities under the Forest Fire Management component would be implemented under
the overall organization of fire-fighting in Croatia for which the Mol has ultimate responsibility. Under
the aegis of the "National Committee for Fire Prevention and Control", the Mol is responsible for (i)
raising public awareness, in cooperation with municipalities and the Ministry of Education; (ii) forecasting
and detecting forest fires in cooperation, respectively, with the Meteorological and Hydrological Service
and with HS; and (iii) suppressing forest fires including aerial fire-fighting in cooperation with the Army,
and terrestrial fire-fighting (MoI professional fire brigades) in cooperation with municipalities (volunteer
fire brigades). The organization of fire-fighting under the Mol includes a command center in Zagreb with
a Chief Fire-Fighting Commander assisted with a "State Operational Center", and 7 regional centers, one
for each of the 7 coastal Zupanija, with a regional Fire-Fighting Commander assisted (in 6 Zupanija) with
a regional Operational Center.
4.4    Particular project activities would be carried out under particular agreements entered into, either
by HS or the Mol, with the following Government agencies and NGOs:
* the Academy of Sciences and Arts and HS would enter into an agreement for the reconstruction
of the arboretum in Trsteno;
* the Meteorological and Hydrological Service would enter into an agreement with the Mol to
operate the weather forecast system;
* the Forestry Research Institute (FRI) would enter into an agreement with Hg to carry out the
forestry research programs, and the FRI would enter into a sub-agreement with the University
of Zagreb for the research activities to be carried out by the latter; these agreements would
include provisions regarding the purchase and utilization of equipment and contracts for the
provision of services;
* the FRI, the Croatia Ecological Society, and the Institute of Tourism would be contracted by the
MAF to carry out the project monitoring and evaluation program.
At negotiations, it was agreed that agreements and terms of reference for the above activities would be
acceptable to the World Bank.
4.5    Project Management. Project management would be the overall responsibility of the MAF with
the support of:
* a Project Steering Committee, chaired by the MAF, that would be composed of four members:
the Vice-Minister of International Relations (MAF), the Vice-Minister of Forestry (MAF), the
Director General of HS, and the Director of the Fire and Explosives Prevention Department
(Mol). The Steering Committee would be responsible for the approval of the annual project
work program and budget prepared by the PMU, quarterly reviews of implementation and
approval of budget adjustments proposed by the PMU, overall monitoring of project execution,
and assistance in resolving evolving problems. Project effectiveness would be contingent upon
actual appointment of the members of the Project Steering Committee;
* a Project Management Unit (PMU), reporting directly to the Steering Committee, that would be
established in the MAF. The PMU would be staffed with 2 full-time professionals (one from
the MAF and one from the Mol; one of them would be the Project Coordinator), one
procurement specialist who would also supervise disbursement procedures, and one



- 31 -
administrative assistant. The accounting of project activities and disbursement operations would
be the responsibility of the accounting service of the MAF. The PMU would be responsible for
coordinating project implementation by the various institutions involved both at central and
regional level, and project monitoring and evaluation. The PMU would also be responsible in
particular for managing the project Special Account, coordinating Bank financing of project
activities, and submitting progress reports according to World Bank rules. Project effectiveness
would be contingent upon actual establishment of the PMU with full staff and office facility.
B. Financial Mechanisms
4.6    The sources of project funding are (i) the Ministry of Finance as borrower of the World Bank
loan and provider of the Government's own contribution through budgetary allocation to the Mol; and
(ii) HS with its own resources. Standard financial mechanisms of the Government and HS would apply
to all project activities, except for coastal forest reconstruction on private land.  These standard
mechanisms would be based (i) for Bank financed activities, on contracts by HS and the Mol with
providers of goods, works, and services, and on the particular arrangements mentioned above for works
carried out under force account (see para. 3.27); and (ii) for recurrent costs not financed by the Bank,
on current MoI and HS procedures for such expenditures.
4.7    Coastal forest reconstruction on private land (see para. 3.7), which represents only 1 percent of
total project costs, would be financed under existing mechanisms established for private forestry. These
activities would be subject to a specific contract between HS and the owner (see Annex F) financed by
a State capital grant that would be channeled to the eligible private land owner through the "Fund for
Biological Reproduction in Private Forest" currently administered by HS.
C. Technical Assistance and Training
4.8    Technical assistance (TA) would be funded for financial and organizational issues only.
Technical assistance would help HS improve its financial management and privatize non-core activities.
This would include support to developing an improved cost accounting system, a plan to complete
ongoing privatization of non-core activities, and a human resource development plan. Training and
technical assistance would also be provided to MoI to improve the organization of field activities of forest
fire suppression in coastal zones of Croatia (see para. 3.17). TA to HS and the Mol would be
implemented according to terms of reference (see Annex B, Appendices 2 and 3) on which the Borrower
and the Bank have agreed. Training of the PMU staff in procurement matters and in English language
would be financed under the PHRD Japanese Grant for project preparation.
D. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.9    The project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system (see Annex B) would be organized in
order, first, to monitor project implementation, on the basis of input (i.e., disbursement of project funds,
and purchase of project equipment) and output (i.e., amount and quality of forest works, and improved
efficiency in forest fire management) indicators. The M&E system would, second, make it possible to
evaluate the overall development impact of the project, on the basis of outcome (i.e., improved landscape)
indicators, on one hand, and economic (i.e., recovery of the tourism industry) and environmental (fauna



- 32 -
and flora) impact indicators, on the other hand. The results of project monitoring activities would be an
integral part of the annual project report and would form the basis for the project completion report.
4.10   Project M&E would be the overall responsibility of the PMU which would have, in particular,
the responsibility to coordinate the different operators involved in the M&E system. PMU would be
directly responsible to monitor input indicators. The monitoring of output and outcome indicators for
the Coastal Forest Reconstruction component would be the responsibility of the Forest Research Institute,
under a contract between the latter and the MAF. The monitoring of output and outcome indicators for
the Forest Fire Management component would be the responsibility of the Mol who would contract the
appropriate operators. The monitoring of the economic and environmental impact of the project would
be the responsibility of, respectively, the Institute of Tourism and the Croatia Ecological Society, under
particular contracts between the latter and the MAF.
4.11   The Project Steering Committee and the Bank would carry out a Mid-Term Project Review
before June 30, 1999, that will assess project implementation progress to that date and adjust
implementation schedule accordingly. At project mid-term in particular, HS is expected to have
developed and adopted a new cost accounting system consistent with international accounting standards.
In order to ensure better consultation with the public on project issues, the Government has decided to
hold briefing sessions annually for interested NGOs on the progress of the project. The basic
documentation to be discussed would be the annual progress report which is to be prepared for the World
Bank.
E. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
4.12   A separate and auditable project account would be established in the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) and project expenditures would be kept separate and identifiable. The project account
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Separate audit statements
would be prepared for the Special Account and for Statements of Expenditure. As agreed by the MAF
and HS, the accounts of the latter would also be reviewed annually by the World Bank.
4.13   The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will prepare and furnish to the Bank, by December
1 of each year during the disbursement period, a forward-looking technical and financial report in a
format acceptable to the Bank, including the proposed forthcoming annual budget for the project and any
measures that need to be taken during the following year to ensure proper execution of the project. A
semestrial report on project progress and statements on project expenditures would be submitted to the
World Bank by the Project Management Unit (PMU). Based on these semestrial reports and on the
forward-looking report mentioned above, a comprehensive annual report would be compiled which would
include the results of project monitoring and evaluation activities. A project completion report would be
prepared by the PMU and FRI upon the completion of the project. Assurances on these auditing and
reporting requirements have been obtained during negotiations.
F. Implementation and Supervision Plans
4.14   Implementation. The main aspects of project implementation -- including implementation
arrangements, physical targets over the project period, and procurement schedules -- are presented in the
Project Implementation Plan (see Annex B). Details on the implementation of the different components
of the project are given in the Annexes F to I in the Implementation Volume of the SAR.



- 33 -
4.15    Supervison. Careful project supervision would be undertaken by the World Bank. In order
to ensure that the PMU and the MoI and Ht staff involved in the project are fully aware of project
implementation arrangements, including procurement, the Bank will organize a one-week project start-up
seminar when the project becomes effective. The project would be subsequently supervised by the World
Bank on average twice a year for an estimated total cost of 108 staff-weeks. In the first year, with the
proposed start-up seminar, the cost is expected to be 24 staff-weeks, falling to 18 staff-weeks in the
second year. A detailed supervision plan is given also in Annex B.



- 34 -
CHAPTER V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1    In the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy, this project is envisaged as part of a long-term
program to restore and maintain favorable ecological conditions in coastal areas in support of tourism.
Most of the benefits expected from the project would be improved landscape and environmental
conditions of coastal forests, resulting from the reconstruction of forests destroyed by the war and from
the reduction in areas of coastal forests burnt by fires. These major benefits are expected, in turn, to
contribute to increased economic benefits from the rehabilitation of tourism. The environment plays a
particularly important role in Croatia's coastal areas because of its close links to the performance of the
tourism sector. Other commercial, social, and institutional, and scientific benefits would also be
generated, either by forest reconstruction and protection activities or by project activities related to
support services. The project components would achieve significant increase or preservation of a mix
of the following benefits.
5.2     Landscape Value.  Forested landscapes are an important aspect of the Dalmatian coast's
attractiveness. Evidence shows that forested landscapes significantly increase the attractiveness of resort
areas. Tourists are less likely to come to areas without such landscapes, or will only come if prices are
lower. Two surveys of tourist willingness to pay for forest landscapes were conducted, one in Croatia
and one in competing tourist destinations in Italy. Both showed that tourists have a strong preference for
forested landscapes, and are willing to pay about 2-3 US$/tourist/day more. An analysis of hotel room
prices shows that double rooms in hotels in areas with attractive forest landscapes tended to cost about
3-6 US$/day more than rooms in hotels in areas with little forest landscape. Rehabilitation of forest areas
in tourist areas is also crucial to the recovery of the tourist industry because the persistence of devastated
areas close to tourist resorts undermines the country's ability to assure tourists that the threat of hostilities
is no longer a factor.
5.3     Hunting. Forests also provide recreational opportunities for foreign tourists in the form of
hunting activities. Areas near tourist destinations provide particularly attractive hunting venues because
of their accessibility and the possibility of combining hunting with other activities in a single vacation.
On good hunting lands, these leases generally cost about 20 US$/ha, with a range of 33 US$/ha on very
good hunting land to 7 US$/ha on marginal hunting land.
5.4     Wood Production. Although the coastal areas are not as important for wood production as
inland areas, some local wood is used for pulp and for sawlogs. Pulp production is currently suspended,
since the factory in Bosnia-Herzegovina is inaccessible, but is likely to resume soon as the peace process
progresses. In any case, likely future wood shortages in Europe will make the wood from Croatia's
coastal forests increasingly valuable.
5.5     Other Benefits. In addition to the main benefits mentioned above, the project would also have
a positive impact on the following:
* Recreational Value. Forest areas provide recreational benefits to local populations, especially
where they are in close proximity to population concentrations. No information is available on
the magnitude of these benefits, however;



- 35 -
* Watershed Protection and Micro-climatic Effects. In general, the coastal area of Croatia is not
very susceptible to erosion. In some instances, however, even low levels of erosion can cause
significant damage. Erosion on slopes denuded by fire can cause damage to adjacent urban areas
by clogging drainage channels, causing flooding, obstructing roads, and increasing cleaning
costs. Several hydroelectric plants are also vulnerable to sedimentation. In coastal areas,
fisheries can be affected--particularly oyster beds. Forest cover in watersheds is also important
to hydrological cycles. Reforestation will also help improve local microclimates by providing
shade and windbreaks;
* Employment in Coastal Areas. Although the provision of employment opportunities is not one
of the project's principal aims, several components would require significant amounts of labor.
In particular, the investments that are to be made in forest reconstruction, and in cleaning and
thinning roadside forests are labor intensive. These components would provide significant
employment opportunities in coastal areas over the project implementation period. The project
would contribute to maintaining economic activity in areas facing difficulties during Croatia's
period of reconstruction and economic transition;
* Improved Management of Coastal Forests.  The project would contribute to improved
management of coastal forests in the future by contributing to a better knowledge on silviculture,
breeding, and utilization of these forest resources, and also by helping improve overall efficiency
of HS.
B. Markets and Prices
5.6    No major obstacles are foreseen in terms of marketing the incremental wood production or
hunting activities, either on the domestic or on the European market, since the foreseen incremental
marketable output would be modest.
C. Economic Analysis
5.7    Economic analysis was an integral part of project preparation. Numerous alternatives were fully
evaluated before the final project design was arrived at. Even prior to this stage, however, economic
principles were taken into consideration in project design. Reforestation activities, for example, are
undertaken primarily in areas where there has been little or no natural regeneration, while cheaper
silvicultural interventions are carried out where natural regeneration has been strong. Measures designed
to help prevent forest fires are targeted in areas most at risk and where the damage from fires would be
greatest.
5.8    The economic analysis attempted to quantify, to the degree allowed by the available data, the
range of benefits that reconstruction and protection of Croatian coastal forests would bring. The main
benefits for which monetary estimates could be made are the value of visible landscapes, the existence
value of regional forests, wood production, hunting, and erosion control. Since the exact benefits
obtained from forest areas differ from site to site, site-specific information was used. The methodology
by which the different benefits were estimated and used to derive the value of forests for use in the
economic analysis is described in detail in Annex J.



- 36 -
5.9      Reforestation. HS prepared reforestation plans for 14 proposed sites, covering 4,100 ha to be
replanted and an additional 787 ha to receive silvicultural treatments. Estimates of the benefits of
reforestation were made separately for each proposed site, taking into account site-specific characteristics.
Not all areas provide erosion control benefits, for example, either because erosion rates are low even in
the absence of forest cover or because there is little of value downstream that is vulnerable to damage.
Wood production benefits vary depending on the species involved and their mean yields (which in turn
depend on local agro-climatic conditions). The magnitude of benefits provided by landscape depends on
whether forests are in fact visible from tourist resorts and by the number of tourists at that resort. The
without-project case depends on the extent of natural regeneration. Many of the sites where planting is
planned have little or no natural regeneration because repeated fires have destroyed seed sources. Under
such conditions, the benefits provided by forests will recover very slowly, if at all. On areas to be
thinned, on the other hand, natural regeneration is often exuberant. Without silvicultural interventions,
however, growth would remain stunted because of competition between plants. Based on the estimated
costs and benefits at each site, 7 sites were selected, covering 1,069 ha to be planted and 411 ha to
undergo silvicultural treatment. Table 5.1 shows the estimated benefits from reforestation at the selected
reforestation sites. An additional 3 sites in the Krka National Park, covering 169 ha to be planted and
286 ha to undergo silvicultural treatment, were also selected using cost-effectiveness criteria. Based on
the results of the analysis, criteria were developed for the selection of additional sites to complete the
planned reforestation program.
TABLE 5.1: TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF REFORESTATION AT THE PROPOSED SITES
(US$)
Area   Area                        Benefits of refoestation (US$)
planted thinned      Visible   Regional             Wood    Erosion
County, site              (ha)   (ha)        landscape  landscape   Hunting  production  protection   Total
Lika-Senj
Jasenje-Bisemijakovica      161      0          112,699    27,320    22,457       427    97.639    260,542
Zadar-Knin
Novigrad                    350      0          760,997    74,288    101.057    7,481         0    943,823
Split-Dalmatia
Trogir                      233      0          346,904    39,871    32,773    19.031    142,942    581,521
Dubrovnik & Neretva r.
Slano                        75     20          183,704    14.183     4.025       724         0    202,636
Brsecine                     70     24          190,516    15,020     4,262     1,107         0    210,905
Petrinj                      60      25         161,988    13,728     3,895       676         0    180,287
Srdj                        120    342        1.458.259    44.394    52.886     2.804         0   1,558,343
5.10    Fire management. In order to evaluate the value of forests protected from forest fires, separate
estimates were made of the average value of forests in different areas. These were then combined in a
weighted average, using the relative probability of different areas burning as weights. Since forests that
provide important landscape benefits tend to be in areas that are very vulnerable to fires (48 % of fires
take place within 5km of the coast), protection of forests providing landscape benefits is a major source
of benefits from the forest fire management component. Conversely, protection of wood production plays
a minor role, since the areas which provide the highest wood production benefits are the least likely to
burn. Table 5.2 shows the estimated values of the benefits that would be lost when a hectare of forest
is destroyed by fire, and the relative contribution made by various kinds of benefits to this value. These
estimates were then combined with estimates of the reductions in areas burnt -- an estimated 1,600 ha of
forests annually -- that would be achieved following implementation of the proposed fire management
measures.



- 37 -
TABLE 5.2: ESTIMATED MEAN VALUE OF ECONOMIC BENEFiTS LOST TO FoIEsr FIRES
(US$/ha)
Year
0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9  10+
Composition of lost benefits (%)
Loss of landscape benefits from visible forests  74   77   78   79   80   82   82   82   82   82   82
Lossoflandscapebenefitsfirmregiona forests  10    9    9    9    9    8    8    8    8    8    8
Lossof hunting beiefits                    4    4    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3
L  of wood production benefits            12   11   10    9    9    8    8    8    8    8    8
Total value of lost benefits (US$/ha)  2,381 2,771 2,951 3,180 3350 3,745 3,745 3.745 3,745 3.745 3,745
5.11    As can be seen in tables 5.1 and 5.2, the contribution they make to the landscape of tourist areas
is the most important single benefit provided by Croatia's coastal forests. Since this benefit is a public
good, however, private agents have no incentives to provide it.
5.12    Results. The project is considered to be economically viable. The results of the economic
analysis are given in Table 5.3 below. Since only about a fifth of the area to be reforested has been
selected, a range of likely returns from the additional sites is projected, based on the lowest and highest
returns found at sites already selected. Benefits from reforestation undertaken later will tend to be higher,
since landscape benefits will be magnified by the larger tourist populations, giving a range of 20-27
percent for additional sites. The overall project economic return is estimated at around 15 percent based
on the aggregation of the net benefits of the individual components. This estimated rate of return is
conservative because many benefits remain unquantified for lack of data; in particular benefits to local
populations (such as recreational benefits and harvest of non-timber products) are not quantified.
Moreover, the assumptions made in estimating the quantified benefits were conservative (see para 5.14).
TABLE 5.3: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
(%)
Economic
rate of
return
Reconstruction component
Selected sites
Lika-Senj                     Jasenje-Bisernjakovica                           18.6
Zadar-Knin                    Novigrad                                         17.6
Split-Dalmatia                Trogir                                           25.3
Dubrovnik & Neretva r.        Slano                                            23.3
Brsecine                                        22.2
Petrinj                                         22.5
Srdj                                            33.7
Overall rate of return - Selected sites                                        24.2
Projected rate of return - Additional sites                                  19.9-26.9
Forest fire management component                                                  13.0
Overall project economic rate of return                                        14.4-15.0



- 38 -
5.13    The estimated economic returns of about 15 percent are above the OCC benchmark of 10
percent. The rate of return on the reforestation component (24.2 percent on already selected sites, 20-27
percent on future sites) is higher than for forest fire management (about 13 percent), since it is easier to
target investments where the returns are high. Although fire management activities are targeted to the
extent possible (for example, silvicultural interventions designed to reduce the probability and intensity
of fires are concentrated in areas most at risk and where damages would be greatest), some activities can
only be provided as a public good to the entire region. Some of the areas that will be protected by fire-
fighting forces would not by themselves have justified the proposed fire management investments.
5.14    Sensitivity analysis. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken on the most important assumptions.
In general, conservative values were used throughout. The data on tourist willingness to pay for forest
landscapes, for example, could have justified estimates as high as 3-4US$/tourist/day, yet a value of
1.5US$/tourist/day is used. Even so, the proposed forest fire management investments would remain
profitable even if tourist willingness to pay was reduced further by about 15-20 %. The proposed
reforestation activities are even more robust; reforestation would remain economically viable on
practically all sites even if tourist willingness to pay were reduced by two-thirds. Similarly, both
components can withstand significant reductions in the assumed recovery of tourism. Reforestation would
remain profitable at all the selected sites even if tourism recovered to only 40 million overnights (instead
of the assumed pre-war level of 60 million), and fire management investments would remain profitable
even if tourism recovered to only 50 million overnights. The results are also robust to changes in the
other assumptions. All reforestation sites would remain viable, for example, even if all benefits other
than visible landscape were reduced to zero. It should also be borne in mind that the estimated benefits
omit, for lack of data, several important categories of benefits. Although these omitted benefits are
probably small relative to the benefits which were measured, their omission does mean the estimated
returns to the project are conservative.
5.15    Distribution of benefits. The distribution of benefits from both components is closely tied to
the category of benefits. In the reconstruction component, landscape benefits accrue to the tourism
sector, through greater tourist attendance and higher prices; wood production benefits accrue to Hrvatske
Sume; hunting benefits accrue to Hrvatske Sume through income from hunting leases, and indirectly to
the tourism sector through increased attractiveness of destinations; erosion prevention benefits accrue to
municipalities who no longer have to repair damages caused by sedimentation. In the forest fire
management component, the same is true except that benefits take the form of averted losses rather than
increases in benefits. The tourist sector and municipalities on the coast will also gain additional,
unquantified benefits in the form of improved local micro-climates. It is also worth stressing that local
populations also value coastal forests, both in and of themselves and for their recreational, hunting,
woodfuel, and non-timber benefits (unfortunately, data were not available to quantify these benefits).
5.16    Alternatives. Numerous alternatives were analyzed, in various degrees of detail, during project
preparation before the final design was arrived at.
* During preparation of the reconstruction component, full economic analyses were carried out
of the benefits of reforestation on 14 sites, totalling 4,419 ha, as detailed in Annex J. From this
initial list, the 7 sites listed in Table 5.1 (totalling 1,069 ha) were selected for the initial
reforestation plan, while the others were discarded as providing insufficient benefits or held over
until additional information could be obtained.



- 39 -
* Several less ambitious packages of activities were considered and evaluated during preparation
of the fire management component, before deciding to adopt a comprehensive package of
measures. For example, measures aimed at improving the timeliness of fire detection and in
reducing the response time could have substantially increased the effectiveness of current fire-
fighting forces at modest cost. While the rate of return on such measures would have been
relatively high, however, their total impact would have been small and the improvement would
have limited to a small fraction of the area at risk. The impact of a comprehensive package of
measures is likely to be greater than the sum of its parts: the reduction in area burnt resulting
from implementing the package of activities are greater than the cumulative reduction in area
burnt resulting from each element of the package.
* The alternative of acquiring second-hand, piston-engined aircraft to fulfill the water tanker
requirement was analyzed in great detail. Used aircraft would have a lower initial price but a
higher operational cost and a shorter useful life; their capabilities would be lower, but more
could be acquired for the same cost. Although the analysis found that used aircraft would have
a slightly higher rate of return, the Croatian government felt the difference was too small the
additional problems involved with the use of used equipment, including lower reliability and the
difficulty of obtaining spare parts. Obtaining fuel for piston-engined aircraft is also becoming
increasingly difficult. Morover additional installations are required at all airports from which
the aircraft are to be operated. Turbine-engined aircraft can use the same fuel as commercial
airliners, which is cheaper and widely available.
D. Risks
5.17    The main project risks are associated with the possibility of hostility resumption, and the delay
in tourism recovery. The risk of hostilities within Croatia in general, and in its coastal zone in particular,
has been significantly reduced as a result of the re-establishment of Government control, in early August
1995, over most of Croatia's internationally recognized territory, and of the Peace Agreement that was
signed in November 1995 in neighboring Bosnia-Herzegovina. Although there may continue to be
regional tensions, the risk of conflict-related damage to project investments is small.
5.18    The potential risk of reduced benefits of the project due to delay in the recovery of the tourist
industry has been mitigated by adopting conservative values in the assumptions used in the economic
analysis of the project. The sensitivity analysis shows that reforestation remains profitable even if tourism
recovers to only two-thirds of prewar levels within a six-year period (i.e., 30% less than the basic
assumption).
5.19    An other potential risk could be associated with poor operation and maintenance of the fire-
fighting equipment. This risk is minimal given the previous experience of the Ministry of Interior with
the proposed technology and the availability of training and maintenance services under the equipment
purchase contract.



- 40 -
CHAPTER VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1    During negotiations of the Loan Agreement, the following agreements were reached:
(a) The Borrower selected the Multiple Currency Pool Loan option among the different currency
and interest options proposed by the Bank. The terms of the onlending arrangements, that
would be entered into between the Borrower and Hrvatske Sume, would be identical to those
for the Loan (para. 3.20);
(b) Procurement (paras. 3.25 to 3.34) and disbursement procedures (paras. 3.36 to 3.38) would be
satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) The following agreements for particular activities would be acceptable to the Bank: (i) agreement
between the Academy of Sciences and Arts and HS for the reconstruction of the arboretum in
Trsteno; (ii) agreement between the Meteorological and Hydrological Service and the Mol to
operate the weather forecast system; (iii) agreement between the Forestry Research Institute
(FRI), the University of Zagreb and HS to carry out the forestry research; and (iv) agreements
between the FRI, the Croatia Ecological Society, and the Institute of Tourism and the MAF to
carry out the project Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) system (para. 4.4);
(d) A Project Steering Committee would be established and a Project Management Unit (PMU)
would be maintained within the Ministry of Agriculture of Forestry (MAF) with staffing,
functions and authorities acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.5);
(e) The agreed technical assistance under the project (para. 4.8) would be provided to HS and to
the MoI according to the terms of reference presented in Annex B (Appendices 2 and 3);
(f) The project would be monitored according to the M&E system described under Section D in
Annex B. The indicators and the implementation arrangements of that system would be
presented in a side letter which would be signed by the authorized Government representative
either before or concurrently with the Loan Agreement (para. 4.9 and 4.10);
(g) At project mid-term, but at the latest by June 30, 1999, (i) the Project Steering Committee
would carry out a Mid-Term Review together with the Bank; and (ii) Hg would have developed
and adopted a new cost accounting system consistent with international accounting standards
(para. 4.1 1);
(h) Project accounts would be audited annually by the State auditing agency, provided such agency
continued to satisfy the requirement of independence and to meet appropriate auditing standards.
HS's audited accounts would be reviewed annually by the Bank (para. 4.12).
6.2    The conditions of effectiveness of the Loan would be:
(a) Subsidiary Agreement. The Subsidiary Agreement that would be entered into between the
Borrower and Hrvatske Sume, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be signed
(para. 3.20);



- 41 -
(b) Project Steering Committee and PMU. The members of the Project Steering Committee and
the staff of the Project Management Unit (PMU) would be appointed and the PMU would be
fully established (para. 4.5).
6.3    Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a
Bank loan to the Republic of Croatia of US$42 million equivalent payable in 17 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans.
inAcm \frlsamrbu.wr
September ... 1996






REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX A.
PROJECT COST AND FiNANCING TABLES
A. SUMMARY TABLES
Project Cost Summary by Component .................................. 1
Project Components by Years  ....................................... 2
Project Cost Summary  by Expenditure Accounts ........................... 3
Expenditure Accounts by Component  .................................. 4
B. DETAILED COST TABLES
1.   Coastal Forest Reconstruction: Rehabilitation of Coastal Forests  .............. 5
2.   Coastal Forest Reconstruction: Reconstruction of Piket Nursery  ............... 6
3.   Coastal Forest Reconstruction: Reconstruction of Trsteno Arboretum   ....                 ....... 6
4.   Forest Fire Management: Prevention ................................ 7
5.   Forest Fire Management: Pre-Suppression  ............................ 7
6.   Forest Fire Management: Suppression ............................... 8
7.   Support Services: GIS  ............                 ............................. 9
8.   Support Services: Research .....................................  10
9.   Support Services: Institutional Strengthening .......................... 11
10. Support Services: Project Management and Monitoring  ................... 11






CROATIA
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
Components Project Cost Sufrmmary
%     % Total
(Kuna'000)                    (US$ 000)          Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign    Total     Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Coastal Forest Reconstruction
Rehabilitation of Coastal Forests          32,351    10,105    42,455    6,104    1,907    8,010        24       14
Reconstruction of Piket Nursery             2,719     7,466     10,185     513     1,409     1,922      73        3
Reconstruction of Trsteno Arboretum          132        886      1,018      25       167      192       87        -
Subtotal Coastal Forest Reconstruction       35,202    18,457    53,658    6,642    3,482    10,124       34       17
B. Forest Fire Managerment
Prevention                                 12,199     2,046     14,245    2,302      386    2,688        14       5
Pre-Suppression                            17,359    10,356    27,715    3,275     1,954    5,229       37        9
Suppression                                24,948   155,313   180,261     4,707   29,304   34,012        86      58
Subtotal Forest Fire Management              54,505   167,716   222,221    10,284   31,644   41,928       75       72
C. Support Services
GIS                                         5,370     2,861     8,231     1,013      540     1,553       35       3
Research                                    7,704    12,248    19,952    1,454    2,311      3,765       61       6
Institutional Strengthening                 1,161     1,383      2,544     219       261      480        54       1
Project Management and Monitoring           2,656       275     2,931      501        52      553        9        1
Subtotal Support Services                    16,891    16,768    33,659    3,187    3,164    6,351         50      11
Total BASELINE COSTS                         106,598   202,940   309,538   20,113   38,291    58,403       66      100
Physical Contingencies                     10,660    20,294    30,954    2,011     3,829    5,840       66       10
Price Contingencies                         9,594     6,388    15,982     1,810    1,205    3,016        40       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                         126,852   229,622   356,474   23,934   43,325   67,259         64     115
P ¢
m 
0
(D-



CROATIA
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
UQD
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97    97/98   98/99   99/00   00/01    Total                                         >
A. Coastal Forest Reconstruction
Rehabilitation of Coastal Forests           1,541    2,106   2,440    2,520    895     9,503
Reconstruction of Piket Nursery             1,246     623     163      101      49     2,183
Reconstruction of Trsteno Arboretum          136       57      24        -       -       217
Subtotal Coastal Forest Reconstruction        2,923   2,786   2,627   2,621      944    11,902
B. Forest Fire Managemnent
Prevention                                   350      552     547      928     877     3,255
Pre-Suppression                             1,627    1,087    1,122    1,159    1,197    6,193
Suppression                                30,493   3,254    1,513    1,562    1,612   38,434
Subtotal Forest Fire Management              32,471    4,893    3,183   3,649    3,686    47,882
C. Support Services
GIS                                          271      528     669      355       -    1,823
Research                                     866      927     995      853     803     4,445
Institutional Strengthening                  251      173     124        -       -       548
Project Management and Monitoring            153      112     151      120     124       660
Subtotal Support Services                     1,541    1,740    1,940    1,327   927     7,475
Total PROJECT COSTS                          36,935    9,419   7,749    7,598    5,558   67,259



CROATIA
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sunmnary
%     % Total
(Kuna'000)                   (US$ '000)          Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign    Total     Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Works
1. Construction Works              20,557    16,656    37,213    3,879    3,143    7,021       45       12
2. Forest Works                    40,625     8,811    49,435    7,665    1,662    9,327       18       16
Subtotal Works                       61,182    25,466    86,648   11,544    4,805   16,349       29      28
B. Equipment
1. Computing Equipment               687      2,748     3,435      130      518      648       80        1
2. Telecomm. Equipment                 -    16,706    16,706         -    3,152    3,152      100       5
3. Fire-Figthing Equipment             -   131,546   131,546         -   24,820   24,820      100      42
4. Machinery & Equipment              48      7,022     7,070        9    1,325    1,334       99       2
Subtotal Equipment                     735   158,022   158,757       139   29,815   29,954      100      51
C. Goods
1. Materials                        1,948     3,630     5,579      368      685    1,053       65       2
D. Services
1. Specialized Services            14,379     7,325    21,704    2,713    1,382    4,095       34       7
2. Technical Assistance              795       795      1,590      150      150      300       50        1
3. Training                         1,434     1,722     3,155      271      325      595       55        1
Subtotal Services                    16,608     9,841    26,449    3,134    1,857    4,990       37       9
Total Investment Costs                80,472   196,960   277,432   15,183   37,162   52,346        71      90
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                           8,571        -      8,571    1,617        -    1,617         -      3
B. Equipment 0 & M                   12,226     5,240    17,466    2,307      989    3,296       30       6
C. VehicleO& M                          52        22        74        10        4       14       30        -
D. Travel                              718       718      1,436      136      136      271       50        -
E. Insurance                         4,558         -      4,558     860         -      860        -       1
Total Recurrent Costs                  26,126     5,980    32,106    4,929    1,128    6,058       19       10
Total BASELINE COSTS                  106,598   202,940   309,538   20,113   38,291    58,403       66     100                  e
Physical Contingencies               10,660    20,294    30,954    2,011    3,829    5,840       66      10
Price Contingencies                  9,594      6,388    15,982    1,810    1,205    3,016       40       5                  m X
Total PROJECT COSTS                   126,852   229,622   356,474   23,934   43,325   67,259        64     115                  w
0



CROATLA
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Conbingencies
(US$ '000)                                                      P
Coastal Forest Reconstruction                                                    Support Servkes       Project            o
Rehabilitation  Reconstruction Reconstruction                                                               Management
of Coastbl     of Piket     of Trsteno          Forest Fire Management                         Institutional   and
Forests       Nursery      Arboretum    Prevention Pre-Suppression Suppression   GIS  Research Strengthening Monitoring   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Works
1. Constnuction Works                     -         1,628            66          -          4,266       2,120      -       54             -         -    8,135
2. Forest Works                       9,126             -            13      1,946              -           -       -       -             -         -   11,086
Subtotal Works                          9,126         1,628            80      1.946          4,266       2,120      -       54             -         -   19,221
B. Equipment
1. Computing Equipment                    -             -             -          -              -           -    740        -             -        18      758
2. Telecomm. Equipment                                                -          -            545       2,967       -       -             -         -    3,512
3. Fire-Figthing Equipment                              -             -                         -      27,793       -       -             -         -   27,793
4. Machinery&Equipment                                554           137          -             23           -       -     766             -        30    1,511
Subtotal Equipment                         -           554            137          -            568      30,761    740      766             -        48   33,574
C. Goods
1. Materials                           377              -             -        191              -           -       -     682             -         -    1,250
D. Services
1. Specialized Services                   -                           -      1,117                               915    2,583             -       300    4,915
2. Technical Assistance                                 -             -          -              -           -       -       -           308        36      343
3. Training                                             -             -          -              -           -     98      360           240          -     698
Subtotal Services                                         -             -      1,117              -           -   1,012    2,943         548        336    5,957
Total Investment Costs                    9,503         2,183           217      3,255          4,835      32,881   1,752    4,445         548        384   60,001
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                 -             -             -          -          1,358        334        -       -             -       252    1.944
B. Equipment 0 & M                                        -             -          -              -       3,865     70        -             -         7    3,943
C. Vehicle O & M                                          -             -          -              -           -       -       -             -        17       17
D. Travel                                                 -             -          -              -        322        -       -             -         -      322
E. Insurance                                                            -          -              -       1,032       -       -             -         -    1,032
Total Recurrent Costs                        -              -             -          -          1,358       5,553     70        -             -       276    7,258
Total PROJECT COSTS                       9,503         2,183           217      3,255           6,193     38,434   1,823    4,445          548       660   67,259
Taxes                                   3,384          326             19      1,040          1,397       1,266    365      700           55        176    8,727
Foreign Exchange                        2,243         1,598           189       464           2,268      32,867    632    2,709          297         59   43,325



CROATIA
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
Table 1. Coastal Forest Reconstruction
Rehabilitaton of Coastal Forests
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantites                                   Unit            Totals Including Contingencies
Unt      w7        9711       9m           99100       0W01         Total      Cost   96/97   97/98   981    99/00   00101   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Stat Land /a
1. Stb Claring
ChahsawOperation                    ha          900        900          900         900            -        3,600   0.015     15      15      16      16              63
Labour                              ha          900        900         900          900                    3,600   0.322    324    336    347    360               1,367
Subtotal St Clearing                                                                                                          339    351    363    376              1,430
2. Planting wlth Ripping
Tractor Operation                    ha         500        500          500         500            -        2,000   0.392    219    225    231    238          -    913
Planting                            ha          500        500         500          500            -        2,000   0.328    184    190    197    204          -    774
Restocidng                          ha             -       500         500          500         500         2,000   0.059      -      34      35      37      38    144
Tending                              ha            -       500        1,000        1,000       1,000        3,500   0.074       -     43      89      92      95    318
Seedlings                           ha          500        500          500         500            -        2,000   0.329    183    189    194    200          -    766
Fertilizers                         ha             -                    500         500         500         1,500    0.09      -       -      53      54      56    163
Subtotal Planting with Ripping                                                                                                 586    680    799    824    189   3,079
3. Planting Manually
Planting                            ha          625        625         625          625                     2,500   0.541    378    392    405    420          -   1,595
Restocking                          ha                     625         625          625         625         2,500   0.061      -      44      46      47      49    186
Tending                              ha            -       625        1,250        1,250       1,250        4,375   0.077             56     115    119    124    414
Seedlings                           ha          625        625         625          625                     2,500   0.341    238    244    252    259          -    993
Fertilizers                         ha             -         -         625          625         625         1,875   0.094              -      69      71      73    213
Subtotl Pnting Manually                                                                                                        616    736    887    916    246   3,401
4. Thinning
Thinning coppice                     ha            -        40           40          40           40         160   1.062       -      49      50      52      53    204
Thinning Natural Regeneration       ha             -       160          160         160          160         640   0.698       -    128    132    136    140    535
Subotl Thinning                                                                                                                  -    177      182    187    193    739
SubtoblStabt Land                                                                                                              1,541   1,944   2,232   2,304    628   8,649
B. Prlvat Land
Planting Capital Grant                ha            -        100         125          125         150          500     1.4       -    162    209    216    268    854
Total                                                                                                                             1,541   2,106   2,440   2,520    895   9,503
ba Cost of manual labour is K182 per MD (or S36.4 at 1S=5K)
Cost of one seedling dewred at planting ite Is K1.29 (or $0.26 at S=5K)
(D m
n
0 
i-t



CROATIA
Coasal Foret Reconstruction and Protection Proed
Tabl 2. Coastal Forest Reconstruction
Reconstruction of Piket Nursery                                                      D m
Detailed Costs                                                                  X
(USS'00O)
Totals Including Contingencies
Unit     96197   9T198    98199    99100    0W01      Total
L Invesbntnt Cosb
A. Work
Acces Roads and Bu g                mpsum         424      255       65       44       24     812
Cont onerAea                       umpsum          57       22       22      23        10     134
Wster Supply                       slp   n        536       71       45       23        8     683
SubtotalWorks                                     1.016      348      131       90      41    1,628
B. Equipnit
Macdhin.  & Equipment              lmp sum        228      275       31       12        8     554
Total                                                1.248     623      163      101       49    2,183
CROATIA
Coasa Forst Recostaruction ndP Ptctio project
Tabe 3. Coastl Forest Reconstruction
Reconstruction of Trsreno Arboretum
Detaged Comb
(USS000)
Total Incs uing Condngencies
Unit      9U97    9719      Wee    99100 mm           Total
1. Invesbnat Cosb
A. Woe"
FimSreak                knpsumn         13                  -                        13
Waer Supply             kwmp sum        43       23       -e6
Subtotal Works                            57       23         -        -               80
B. Equlpment
GreenHouse              kmpsum          22       23       12         -               57
Trctor                  lump swn        39         -        -        -               39
Ohraqulpment            kumpsum         18       11       12                         4
Subtot Eqpmt                               79      34       24        -               137
Total                                       133       57       24             -          217



CROATIA
Co_t Foet Recanubu          td Probtn Proud
TIs 4. Fort Ft. MW _gemwit
Datled Costs
_uaaitlilee                                  Unit                Tobl  =Inudg C       g
Unit   _ W              171T        WNM         11l0        00101        Totbl       Cost        97T   97196    WN         IS    0101  -T otal
L wnMaw Costa
A. Acton Towets Papultn
Funw  (0MSWPrd.)                          kIlip sum                                                                                            28      121       83      320         -     662
T _Ie  NelWAPod.)                         lump mm                                                                                                                l a 1   148      400      s66
$J_l Adbon Toe_ws Populations                                                                                                                                                       400  1,117
IL Rodsde Foet Clsning
Labo.r                                       ha               60         120         12D         12D          12D           S6     0.546       49       76       79        11      84      30
VAIWW                                        he               80         120         120         12D          120         t     20 50. 066      6                          a        a        ST7
_SRXFb_5-OS Wtd     Fan Cum"
C. ThiNning
Labour                                       ha              200         250         250         250          250          1,200    1.002     24       316      327      339      361    1,577
1mw                                          he              200         280         260         250         260           120    0.100        24       31       32       33        34      156
Tot     b    n                                                                                                                                     2W       34T      35       3T2      355-
CROATIA
Cotl Fomat Reconsarudlon mid Precton Poct
Table S. Foet F. UMw _gmt
Pr- oprsin
Dabd Cost
(USS 000)
_ _ _ _     __Unit                                                 Tble h     d_    Co_tngeodeg
Uni        "MT7         gN          WmI           moo         O101         TOtl        Cot    1W           7in    'a         m11100    am      ToWa
1. 1-980es CosA
A. W _rsi Foreds Systm
Rajoft          th Equnis                mp awn                                                                                               351         -         -                 -      361
Tlcni Equiment                          lump sOm                                                                                               33                   -        -        -       33
Met-orl        Eqrilprne               lump sm                                                                                                107         -         -        -        -      107
Vshll  (4WD)                               unit              I                  -            -                  -             1       21       23         -         -                         23
Subtol W t  Po            System                                                                                                                515         -         -        -        -      515
Lb npov  Detn
Lookout Tower                              unk               4            *           *            *                          4       10       45         *         *        *                45
Lookd uEquipment                           unit             24                  -            -                  -            24        2       53         -         -        -        -       53
S|tahmqed OCeteoon                                                                                                                                W                            -      -         N             i
C. Fk ghtki  Roads                           km              100          100         100          100         100            500       7.1      793      818      843       870      SW     4.222       t
Total itebment Costa                                                                                                                             14i8i'    U3 4r                                4,U36      _  x
U. Recunsr  Otb                                                                                                                                                                                                >
A. lniP -      etitection                                                                                                                                                                                0
Obeers                                     PD              680         60           680 on       680         SW           3,400    0.063       43        50       61        53       55      257
PFkds                                      Wi              100          100         100          100         100            600      1.55     173       160      166       102      109      930 
Subttlh boed Dtecon                                                                                                                              221      229      237       246   _     ii54    TM
B. FreFgti  Road                          lump um                                                                                                  -       41       42        43       45      171
Tota Rooe  c      somb                                                                                                                             221      270      2759                   _     _ m   _1 35
Totdl                                                                                                                                                                          17UY    6193
is hidudee kitbu  aNW k*teln



CROATIA
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
Table 6. Forest Fire Management
Suppression                                                                    l
Detailed Costs                                                                PP
(USS'OOO) 000
Quantities                                                     Totals Including Contingencis                  ° 
Unit      96197       97198      98199      99100      00101      Total    Unit Cost   96197    97198    98199    99/00    00/01      Total       o
1. Investment Costs
A. Telecommunication System 
Moble Radio /a                          lump sum                                                                                     1,359        -        -        -        -     1,359
Trans.&RepdatJPagers                    lump sum                                                                                       404                                           404
EqupmntUAiaft                           lump sum                                                                                       735        -        -        -        -       735
EquimntOpemt Centr                         unit             7          -          -          -          -           7         60       468        -        -        -        -       468
Subtosla Teleoommunkston Systwm                                                                                                        2,967         -        -       -        -    2.967
B. Aesal PIt-FIghtng
New Air-Tanker                             unit             I          -                                            1     20,000    22,286        -        -        -        -   22.286
Psrts                                   lump sum                                                                                       334      343      353      363      374     1,767
Constr. Hagr Zmunk                      lump sum                                                                                      1,676                 -        -       -     1,676
Pid Faclies                              lump sum                                                                                      16S         -        -       -        -       168
Stand    Fcies                             unit             -          2           -          -          -          2        120          -     277         -       -        -       277
Suboal Aeil Fieil ng                                                                                                                  24,464      620      353      363      374    26,173
C. Temutew F"l+ng
Fre-Figho g Tnc (2000i                     unit             -         10          -                      -         10        135          -    1,545        -       -        -     1,645
Fl_FIgt   Trumc  (1800)                    ut              20          -           -          -          -         20         82      1,827        -        --                     1,627
Eq_  Jwent         J-esm                    Set            15          -           -          -          -         15         22       368         -        -       -        -       368
Subtotl Terstel Fre-l_Min                                                                                                               2,195    1,545        -        -       -    3.740
TOtl hWetn_ Ct cosb                                                                                                                      29.626    2,165     353      363      374    32,881
N. Reourret Costs
A. TecommuncatIn Syte                     lump um                                                                                           -     115       155     160      165       595
L Aodm 11 Flreftldhg hb
MaIntnance                              lump sum                                                                                       376      388      400      413      427     2.003
Fudt                                     lmpaum                                                                                         83       as       89       92       95       445
O                                      lumpsum                                                                                          1        1        1        1        1         7
Crew                                      ump sum                                                                                       62       64       67       69       71       334
Travl                                    lump sm                                                                                        60       62       64        e       68       322
Insurwe                                  lump swm                                                                                      193      190      206      213      221     1,032
Suboal Aerti  Flre-gtIn                                                                                                                  775      801      827      855      884     4,142
C. Terrestiall FieftIng
F-F Trucks (2000)                          unit             -         10         10         10         10          40        6.75         -      78       S0       83       66       327
F-F Trudcl (18001)                         unit            20         20         20         20         20         100         4.1       92       95      s9       101      104       489
Subotal Terrestrial Fire-FghtIng                                                                                                          92      172      178      184      190       816
Total Recurmret Costs                                                                                                                      867    1,089    1,160    1,199    1,238      5,553
Total                                                                                                                                    30,493    3,254    1,513    1,562    1,612    38.434
%a Mobib, hand-hld, page, stationary
lb New Ar-Tanker



CROATIA
Coal Fores Reoostiuon ud ptotscion Prect
Table 7. Support Servic
GIS
DdaM Costs
(USS '00)
Quantie                                Unit               Toals Indudi  Contngen_e
Unit       96197      971         96199       99100     00101      Total     Cost   96197    97/S8    94199    99100    00101    Ttdal
L Iuwmbsea Comts
A. Hmnwars
Server                                 unit             1           -           1          -        -           2       16      18         -      19                 -       37
Y*lrstdons                             urit             2           2           6          6        -          16        9      20       21       64       66         -     170
AO PIow                                unit             -           -           1          -        -           1        a        -                9         -        -       9
AlP r                                  uit                          1           1          -        -           2      5.5        -       6        6         -        -      13
AOScnr                                 unK              1                       -          - S                  1       24      27         -        -        -        -      27
Prk*_u a                                                2           1           3          3        -           9      0.9       2        1        3        3         -       9
Stsimel HwdwWs                                                                                                                    67       28      101       69               265
B. Saftwar
DS_m                                  un*               3           2           7          6        -          1S      7.5      25       17       62       U4         -     15
GIS                                    uirt             3           2           7          6        -          16      7.5      25       17       62       U4         -     15
D bpW"                                 url              3           2           7          6        -          18      7.5      25       17       62       64               156
SubbXl Softdwl                                                                                                                    75       51      165      163         -     475
C. Thkif                                d                 -           7          19         19        -          45      1.         -      15       41       42                96
D. Spealzeld Sevie
CustIA                                   ay             -         200         100          -        -         300      0.7        -     162       84         -        -     246
Co emiu,icaMM la                           n                                                                                             23       60       62         -     145
DSt devloment                       kfmfp sum                                                                                  112      232      180         -       -      523
Subboa SpecIa d Sevics                                                                                                            112     417      324       82         -     915
Tobtl hwemerot Costs                                                                                                               254      511      651      338         -    1,752
IL Recurmnt Coas
A. Ifnisno                             sfla              30          30          30         30        -         120      0.5       17      17       16       1s                70
Total RecurrentCstb                                                                                                                  17       17      18       1a                70
Total                                                                                                                               271      528      669      355             1,823
xD
0



CROATIA
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
Table 8. Support Services
Research
Debtiled Costs
(USS '000)                                                                         o
I.-
Unit               Totals Including Contingencies                                                      C)
Unit      Cost    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total                                             0
1. Investment Costs
A. Forestry Research
1. Broadleaf&Conifer Silviculture/PH
-Personnel                                          lump sum                  62       64       66       68       70      330
Equipment                                           lumpwum                 114      110       29         3        -      256
Materials                                           lump sum                 49       50       48        37       35      218
Training                                            lump sum                   9       9         9       10       10       47
Subtotal Broadleaf&Conlfer SlivicultureIPH                                     234     233       152      117      116      852
2 BredinglPH
Personnel                                           hump um                  44       46       47        49       50      235
Equipment                                           lump sum                 189      46        13        -        -      248
Material                                            lump um                  44       51       42        37       37      210
Training                                            lump sum                  24       24       25       26       27      126
Subtotil BreedinglPH                                                           301      167      127      111      113      819
3. Utllzaoni/PH
VUbWksIPdfab. building                              lump sum                  54        -        -        -        -       54
Personnel                                           lumpsum                   12       12       12       13       13       62
Equipment                                           hmp um                    69      149        -        -        -      219
Material                                            lump sum                   0        0        0        0        0        1
Traiiing                                            lump um                    -        -        7        7        8       22
Subtotal UtlizatonJPH                                                          135      162       20       21       21      358
4 Othr Programs
Personnel                                           lump um                  125      129      133      138      142      668
Equipment                                           lump sum                  16        5        -        -        -       20
Matrial                                             hump sum                  33       34       24       12       13      116
Subtotel Other Programs                                                        174      168      157      150      155      804
Subtotal Forestry Resrch                                                         844      730      456      399      405    2,833
B. GIS Research
Personnel                                             lump sum                   -       25       26        -        -       52
Equipment                                             lump sum                   -       11       12        -                23
Material                                              lumpsum                    -       11        6        -        -       17
Laboratory Work                                       himp sum                   -       58       59       31        -      148
TA & Training                                         lump sum                   -       69       59       37        -      165
Subtotal GIS Reserch                                                               -      175      162       67        -      404
C. Test of New Methods/FFM
Foam & Retardant                                      lump sum                  22       23       24       24       25      118
Initial Attack Airplane                               lump sum                   -        -      353      363      374    1,089
Subtotal Test of Now Methods/FFM                                                  22       23      376      387      398    1,207
Total                                                                              866      927      995       853      803    4,445



Cam" Feus RowuIruWgn 0d PIabI PMONS
TaM  3. Saipwt Sircs
D.hRtdCoob
CS 000)
VO .n                                Ult TOmdalw uing CCamngsuwIs.
1*           367       3713      W63       gum      a         TeOl      Cost  __13        3713   n63        663      3        TdOW
A. I    _alhUoaI  _bOnVngAtS
Corm"Itsu_icm                                   p.baNMlts               6         3         3        -        -         12        16     100                 63        -        -      206
SbdToiur                                             kw                 1         1         1        -        -          3       30       33       34       36         -        -      103
SUWAW blusoed  smgsdngim                                                                                                                    134       Be    -a           -        -      30.
Cm"ItSmicm                                      p        _- nAN         3         3         -        -                   6        IBs      50       52        -                 -      102
SIudyTmW                                             kw                 2         1         1        -        -          4       30       67       34        36        -               137
SMAMWOMW8hldlg          U uId   'iWsI                                                                                                       117       a    -as                           250
TOM                                                                                                                                           281      173      124         -        -
CROATIA
C _am    Fus Reoxwudlin ad P      ltcn P.d
Tab 10. &amt Sevi
Oda" Com
QUa"                                   Udl                 Te h
Luit         NW         am         W01                                 s      Cost
L 1_ItiW COM
A. E*mIoew
O       *& E       mdla                          O m                                      -          *          *          1       IS       17        -        -        -       -       17
Cong  gm                                                            4          -          -                                4        4       1S                     * .   *              1t
SuWis Er_pmod                                                                                                                                 35                               -          3-3-
BVW*                                               ul                 I                     -                                I       1        13        -        -        -       -       13
C T_oAuSt aA.8be.
mw mRs                                                              -          -          2          -          -          2       1S        -               31        -        -       36
0. Mmmhig ud E_iMi                              km* s-                                                                                        56       so      00       62       64      M
ToW -  qsls  COal                                                                                                                              104       SI      go       62       64      364
L. UsmtM C s                                                                                                                                                                                              >s
FajeiMaiqer                                 paImaMewiw             12         12         12         12         12         so      1.2  1e           17       17       16       16        6         I
Tedi  Evzpt                                 P_OsiaE                12         12         12         12         12         so      0.0       12       13       13      13       14       es            X
po.pjfli.A_kin.*t8pbOW                      p_i' onus              12         12         12         12         12         s0      0.9       12      13       13       13       14       as
MinkfrdwAahbd                               Per*ue*eS              12         12         12         12         12         so      0.5        7        7       7        7        a       38
-6ho    Sa"47                                                                                                                                         4S ---            52- --- W        252        O
B.OlWm E* w         0 & M                       hm  MN                                                                                         -        2       2        2        2        7
C. 0  "OAU                                       000km               10        1 15   1C              15         16         70      02         2        3       4        4        4       17
Totd ReouwAy Cosl                                                                                                                               49    -54        356      56   -UD         276
TOW                                                                                                                                            153 - T112        161      120      12N      no0
%sPtlmw pIer wAdoMist qu"mKo1 aMs humsw
1TkWhW" It Ca c aPshi s11se n-Xd phe            o mc 1in






ANNEX B
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT
ANNEX B.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Responsibilities
i.         The Borrower is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, represented by the Ministry
of Finance. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) will have overall responsibility over the
project; Hrvatske Sume (HS) - i.e., the Forestry Department of the MAF -- and the Ministry of Interior
(Mol) will share the responsibility for the implementation of the project. Day-to-day coordination of
project activities will be the responsibility of the Project Management Unit (PMU) established within the
MAF. The PMU will report directly to a Project Steering Committee composed by representatives of
MAF, HS and Mol. Particular project activities, mostly under the Support Services component, will be
contracted either by Ht or the MoI to other Government agencies and to an NGO.
Organization of Project Implementation
2.         Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF). The MAF is highest administrative authority
in the forestry sector; it operates through the Forestry and Wildlife Department which is organized in two
Divisions: the Forestry and Wildlife Division and a Division with inspection duties carried out at the level
of the 22 administrative districts ("Zupanije"). The MAF will be directly responsible for project
management and monitoring of all project activities, through the PMU and the Project Steering
Committee established within the Ministry (see para. 8)
3.         Hrvatske gume (H9). HS is an autonomous public enterrise responsible for managing all
State and other public forest land under the authority of the MAF. H is organized in 15 forest districts
("Uprava guma") and 168 local offices (kumarija) and is directed by a Management Board of 9 members,
6 appointed by the Ministry and 3 elected by employees. HS is responsible for all works related to forest
management, from regeneration to selling roundwood at road side and, in some cases, transportation to
the firms. HS manages 0.5 million ha of forests and other forest land for game and in some National
Parks HS manages the forest area by applying strict criteria of environmental protection. The HS's
mandate also includes (i) supervision and general enforcement of forest laws and regulations in non-State
forests; however, its employees do not operate as a police corps; and (ii) training and extension to private
and public organization outside the State enterprise, but this still represents a limited part in the HA's
activities. Forest activities are carried out partly by HS's own work force and partly by private
contractors.



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 13
4.          HS will be responsible for the implementation of the coastal forest reconstruction
component, which includes forest rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Piket nursery and the Tresteno
arboretum. HS will also be responsible for forestry works under the forest fire management component
(fire prevention and pre-suppression) and for forestry and GIS research under the support service
component. HS would provide staff for planning, carrying out and supervising project activities. A
portion of works will be carried out through contracting to local entrepreneurs according to bidding
procedures. HS will be responsible for the rehabilitation of forests on State land, and will supervise
planting on private land supported by the project. Together with the local authorities and the Ministry of
Tourism, HS will be responsible for selecting sites for reforestation on State land and for identifying
private land eligible for project support. HS will provide technical assistance to private owners
undertaking reforestation works on their land and will be responsible for administering the Fund for
Biological Reproduction in Private Forest. HS -- through the Forestry Research Institute -- will be
responsible also for the research program in coastal forestry and the GIS research program. Procurement
arrangements for activities under HS's direct responsibility (preparation of technical specifications, draft
bidding documents and evaluation reports for goods and works, and terms of reference for consultant
services) will be handled by HS, at central or local level depending on the nature of the project activity,
with the support and under the supervision of the PMU.
5.          Ministry of Interior (MoI). The MoI has overall responsibility for forest fire control and
collaborates with HS in forest fire prevention and combat. The organization of fire-fighting under the Mol
includes a command center in Zagreb -- "State Operational Center" -- and 7 regional Operational
Centers, one for each of the 7 coastal Zupanija. Under the project, the Mol will be responsible for
implementing the forest fire management component and part of the support service component. In
particular, the Mol will be directly responsible for: (i) raising public awareness of forest fire damage,
in cooperation with municipalities and the Ministry of Education; (ii) improving the ability to forecast
and detect forest fires and access burning areas, in cooperation with the Meteorological and Hydrological
Service and with HS; and (iii) increasing the capacity to suppress forest fires including the use of aerial
fire-fighting in cooperation with the Army, and terrestrial fire-fighting (MoI professional fire brigades)
in cooperation with municipalities (volunteer fire brigades); (iv) equipping the operational centers with
GIS facilities; and (vi) testing new methods of aerial fire fighting. Mol would be responsible for handling
most of the procurement arrangements related to the activities under its direct responsibility (preparation
of technical specifications, draft bidding documents and evaluation reports for goods and works, and
terms of reference for consultant services) in close cooperation and under the supervision of the PMU.
Special Agreements
6.          Particular project activities would be carried out by Government agencies and NGOs with
highly specialized and unique experience in their technical/scientific field. HS will enter into agreements
with:
the Academy of Sciences and Arts (ASA) for the reconstruction of the arboretum in Trsteno;
the arboretum belongs to the ASA and was severely damaged by fire during the recent war.
HS will be responsible for the supervision of the rehabilitation works and purchase of
equipment.
the Forestry Research Institute (FRI) to carry out forestry research and GIS research
programs; the FRI will enter into sub-agreements with the Zagreb University for some of
the research activities; FRI will be responsible for developing a work plan for each research
project which will be reviewed and approved by HS.



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 13
7.         The MoI will enter into agreement with the Meteorological and Hydrological Service to
operate the weather forecast system. The MAF will contract the FRI, the Croatia Ecological Society
(CRE), and the Institute of Tourism (Io7) to carry out the project monitoring and evaluation program (see
para. 12). The FRI will be responsible for monitoring the output of the forest reconstruction component
and will issue guidelines for soil preparation, fertilizer application and species selection. The CRE will
be responsible for monitoring the environmental impact of the project and the loT for monitoring the
economic impact of the project. Draft agreements and terms of reference for the above activities would
be submitted for review and approval to the Bank during the negotiations of the Loan.
Project Management
8.         Project management would be the overall responsibility of the MAF with the support of:
*     a Project Steering Committee, chaired by the MAF and composed of four members: the
Vice-Minister of International Relations (MAF), the Vice-Minister of Forestry (MAF), the
Director General of HS, and the Director of the Fire and Explosives Prevention Department
(Mol). The Steering Committee would be responsible for the approval of the annual project
work program and budget prepared by the PMU, quarterly reviews of implementation and
approval of budget adjustments proposed by the PMU, overall monitoring of project
execution, and assistance in resolving evolving problems;
     a Project Management Unit (PMU), reporting directly to the Steering Committee and
established within the MAF. The PMU would be staffed with 2 full-time professionals (one
from the MAF and one from the Mol; one of which would have responsibilities as Project
Coordinator), one procurement specialist who would also supervise disbursement operations,
and one staff assistant. The accounting service of the MAF will be responsible for handling
the accounting of project activities and disbursement operations, under the supervision of
the PMU. The PMU would be responsible for: (i) coordinating project implementation by
the various institutions involved both at central and regional level; (ii) managing the project
Special Account and ensuring that financial resources for project activities are made
available to the implementers in a timely manner; (iii) ensuring that procurement procedures
handled by the implementers are in compliance with Bank procurement guidelines; (iv)
monitoring project activities, setting annual plans for physical implementation, expenditures
and costs and preparing quarterly project progress reports for the approval of the Steering
Committee; ensuring the timely preparation and submission of annual project financial audit
reports. The establishment of a fully staffed and equipped PMU will be condition for World
Bank's approval of the loan.
B. PHysIcAL TARGETS
9.         The following Table B. 1 summarizes the physical targets which should be achieved during
project implementation:



ANNEX B
Page 4 of 13
TABLE B.1: PHYSICAL TARGETS
Activity                 1st year    2nd year    3rd year    4th year    5th year    TOTAL
Coastal Forest Rehabilitation (HS)
Site Clearing (ha)                         900         900        900         900           -      3,600
Planting with Ripping (ha)                 500         500        500         500           -      2,000
Planting Manually (ha)                     625         625        625         625           -      2,500
Thinning Coppice (ha)                         -         40         40          40          40        160
Thinning Nat. Regeneration (ha)                        160         160        160         160        640
Private Planting (ha)                         -        100         125        125         150        500
Reconstruction of Piket Nursery (HS)
Construction Works (% of total)           50%         30%         15%         5%            -      100%
Equipment Procur&Installation (%)         50%         30%         10%         5%          5%       100%
Reconstr. of Trsteno Arboretum(HS)
Construction Works (%)                     60%         40%           -           -           -      100%
Green House Equipment                     40%         40%        20%            -           -      100%
Forest Fire Prevention
Roadside Forest Cleaning (HS) (ha)          80         120         120        120         120        560
Thinning (HS) (ha)                         200         250        250         250         250      1,200
Actions towards Population (Mol)       Farners    farmers   far/turist   tou.rists    tourists
Forest Fire Pre-Suppression
Fire-Fighting Roads (kum) (HS)             100         100        100         100         100        500
Lookout constr/inst. (%) (HS)             100%           -           -          -           -      100%
Observers (staff/day) (HS)                 680         680        680         680         680      3,400
Patrols (unit) (HS)                        100         100         100        100         100        500
Weather Forecast. Instll (%) (Mol)        60%         40%            -          -           -      100%
Forest Fire Suppression (Mol)
Telecomm. syst. proc&install. (%)         80%         20%                       -           -      100%
Aerial Fire-figthing equpt. (%)           100%           -           -          -           -      100%
Airport Facility construct. (%)           85%         15%            -          -           -      100%
Fire-figthing Trucks (unit)                 20          10           -          -           -         30
Smoke Jumpers (set)                         15           -           -          -           -         15
GIS (Mol)
Hardware (unit)                              6           4          12          9           -         31
Software (unit)                              9           6         21          18           -         54
Training (staff/day)                          -          7          19         19           -         45
Data Customization (staff/day)                         200         100          -           -        300
Research (HS)
Construction works (%)                    100%           -           -          -           -      100%
Equipt proc&install. (%)                  50%         30%         15%         5%            -      100%
Forestry Training (%)                      10%        20%        25%         25%         20%       100%
GIS Research Equipt. (%)                      -       50%         50%           -           -      100%
GIS Training (%)                                      40%         35%        25%            -      100%
Attack Airplane Testing (%)                                       30%        35%         35%       100%
Institutional Strengthening
Study Tours (H)                              1           1           1          -           -          3
Study Tours (MoI)                            2           1           1                                 4



ANNEX B
Page 5 of 13
C. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Methods
10.          Procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with World Bank
guidelines. A detailed description of the procurement arrangements is given in Chapter III, Section E of
the SAR (main report). Draft technical specifications of the air-tankers which will be procured under ICB
are attached in Appendix 1.
Procurement Plan
11.          The following tables summarize the major procurement packages for works, goods and
services.
TABLE B.2: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR WORKS
Category of Expenditure      Est. Cost.   Procure.     Start Doc.   Invitation     Award       Contract
US$millIon    Method    Preparation                 Contract   Completion
Rehab. of Coastal Forests
*   Site Clearing                      1.4        FA
*   Planting with Ripping             2.0         FA
*    Large Tractor Operation          0.3       NCB            9/96        12/96        3/97       12/2000
a    Small Tractor Operation           0.6       MW            10/96       11/96         1/96      12/2000
*   Planting Manually                  3.2        FA
*   Thinning                          0.7         FA
*   Private Land Planting             0.8        MW             3/97        4/97        6/97       12/2000
Reconstr. Piket Nursery
o  Access Roads & Bldg                0.8        NCB           9/96        12/96        3/97          6/01
°  Container Area                     0.1        NCB            9/96       12/96        3/97          6/01
*   Water Supply                      0.7        NCB
Forest Fire Prevention
*  Roadside Forest Clearing           0.4         FA
*   Thinning                           1.6        FA
Reconstr. Trsteno Arboretum
*   Fire Break                       0.01         FA
*   Water Supply                      0.07       MW             9/96       12/96        3/97          6/98
Forest Fire Pre-Suppression
*   Lookout Towers                    0.04       MW            10196       12/96         1/97         6/97
*  Fire-Fighting Roads                4.2       NCB            9/96        12/96        3/97          6/01
Forest Fire Suppression
*   Reconstruct./Zemunik               1.8       ICB           5/96         8/96        12/96        12/97
*   Stand-by Facilities               0.3        NCB           7/96        10/96         1/97        12/97
Research
*  Prefabric. building               0.05        MW             9/96       10/96       12/96         12/97
Note: FA: Force Account; MW: Minor Works; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; ICB: International Competitive Bidding



ANNEX B
Page 6 of 13
TABLE B.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PACKAGES FOR GOODS
Category of Expenditure       Est. Cost.   Procure.    Start Doc.    Invitation     Award       Contract
US$million    Method   Preparation                   Contract   Completion
Rehab. of Coastal Forests
*   Fertilizers                        0.4      NS (a)         6/98          7/98         9/98          6/01
Reconstr. Piket Nursery
*   Machinery & Equipment              0.5       IS (b)        9/96         10/96        12/96         12/00
Reconstr. Trsteno Arboret
*   Green House                       0.06          IS         12/96         1/97         3/97          6/98
*   Machinery & Equipment             0.08          IS         8/96         10/96        12/96          6/97
Forest Fire Prevention
*   Cleaning/Thinning Material         0.2      NS (c)         9/96         10/96        12/96         12/00
Forest Fire Pre-Suppression
*   Radio-Probing Equipt.              0.3        ICB          9/96         12196         2/97          6/97
*   Telecom. Equipt.                  0.03          IS         10/96        11/96         1/97          6/97
*   Meteorological Equipt.             0.1         IS         10/96         11/96         1/97         6/97
*   Vehicle (4WD)                     0.02          IS         11/96        12/96         2/97          5/97
*   Lookout Equipment                 0.05          IS         11/96        12/96         2/97          6/97
Forest Fire Suppression
*   Mobile Radios                      1.4        ICB          8/96         11/96         2/97          8/97
*   Trans & Repeat                     0.4        ICB          9/96         12/96         3/97          9/97
*   Equipt./Aircraft                   0.7        ICB          11/96         2/97         5/97          6/98
*   Equipt./Operat. Centers            0.5        ICB          12/96         3/97         6/97          6/98
*   New Air-Tanker + Parts            24.1        LIB          6/96         10/96         1/97          1/99
*  Trucks                              3.4        ICB          10/96         1/97         4/97         12/97
*   Equipt./Smoke Jumpers              0.4        ICB          12/96         3/97         6/97         12/97
GIS
*   EIardware                          0.3        ICB           1/97         4/97         7/97         6/00
*   Software                           0.5        ICB           1/97         4/97         7/97         6/00
Research
*   Forestry Res. Equipment            0.9       IS (d)        2/97          4/97         6/97         6/99
*   Forestry Res. Materials            0.4      NS (e)         2/97          3/97         5/97         6/99
*   GIS Equipment & Material           0.2          IS         2/97          4/97         6/97         6/99
*   Foam & Retardant                   0.1         IS           1/97         3/97         5/97         12/97
*   Initial Attack Airplane            1.1        LIB           1/97         3/97         5.97         12/98
Project Management
*   Office Fumit ..&Equipment         0.02         NS          8/96         10/96        12/96          3/97
*   Computers                         0.02         NS          8/96         10/96        12/96         3/97
*   Vehicle                           0.01         NS          8/96         10/96        12/96          3/97
Note: NS: National Shopping; IS: International Shopping; ICB: International Competitive Bidding; LIB: Limited Competitive
Bidding
(a) 10 packages ranging between $5 000-50,000
(b) 6 packages ranging between $50,000-200,000
(c) 8 packages ranging between $5,000-40,000
(d) 8 packages ranging between $50,000-300,000
(e) 10 packages ranging between $5,000-50,000



ANNEX B
Page 7 of 13
TABLE B.4: SUMMARY OF PROCuRENT PACKAGES FOR SERVICES
Category of Expenditure     Est. Cost.    Procure.    Start Doc.  Invitation  Award       Contract
US$milhion     Method   Preparation              Contract   Completion
Forest Fire Prevention
*  Action Towards Population         1.1          SL          3/97       5/97       8/97        12/00
Research
*  Forestry Research                 1.3          SS          7/97                  8/97        12/00
*  Forestry Research Training        0.2          SL          6/97       8/97      10/97        12/99
*  Laboratory Works                  0.2          SL          3/97       5/97       7/97        12/98
*  GIS Dvlpt.Rsrch&Training          1.2          SL          3/97       5/97       7/97        12/98
Institutional Strengthening
*  Technical Assistance              0.3        SL/IC                --     -   over 3    ---------------
*  Study Tours                       0.2        SL/IC                    ---    years   ----
Project Management
*  T.A. for M&E                      0.4       SS/SL         10/98      11/98       3/99         6/99
Note: SS: Sole-Source Contract; SL: Short-listed Consulting Firns; IC: Individual Consultants
D. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
12.            The project monitoring and evaluation system would be organized in order to (i) monitor
project implementation, on the basis of input and output indicators; and (ii) evaluate the overall
development impact of the project, on the basis of outcome indicators, on one hand, and economic and
environmental impacts, on the other hand.
Indicators
13.            Input, Output, and Outcome. The proposed input, output, and outcome indicators that
would be monitored, together with the proposed responsibilities for monitoring, would be the following.
TABLE B.5: PROPOSED INPUT, OUTPUT, AND OUTCOME INDICATORS
MONITORING                 Coastal Forest            Resp.        Forest Fire Management          Resp.
INDICATORS                Reconstruction                                   (FFM
Input         .  Disbursement  of  Project   PMU    .  Equipment Purchased (Meteo,  PMU
Funds                                      Telecom, Aerial &  Terrst.
Unit Costs of Project Works    PMU         Fire-Fighting)
Output         .  Areas Completed for each    FRI    Improved Efficiency in FFM:
Treatment (estimated on map            .  Number of Fires                  Mol
and compared with plan)                .  Time between Detection and    MoI
Survival by  Species (field    FRI         Initial Attack
surveys of sample plots, 2             .  Area of Fire at Detection, and    MoI
years after planting)                      at Initial Attack
Quality of Forest Works        FRI    .  Time for Fire-Fighting            Mol
Outcome:        .  Tree  Height and  Ground    FRI    .  Areas  of  Forests  Burned    Mol
Improved            Closure (2 and 5 years after               Annually / 2upanija
Landscape           planting / sample plots)



ANNEX B
Page 8 of 13
14.          Impact. The economic impact of the project would be monitored in terms of recovery
of the tourism industry in the coastal areas of Croatia. Proposed indicators would include (i) the number
of tourists; and (ii) the price of overnights in project areas. The Institute of Tourism is developing a
scheme allowing to determine the impact of project activities (e.g. comparison of 10 "couples" of hotels
with and without burned forest environment). As regards the environmental impact of the project, the
Croatian Ecological Society has proposed indicators on (i) vegetation; (ii) invertebrates; and (iii)
vertebrates. These indicators would be monitored in 2 sites (in Trogir and in Dubrovnik) before project
intervention, and after 2 and 5 years.
Responsibilities
15.          Project monitoring and evaluation would be the overall responsibility of the Project
Management Unit (PMU) which will have, in particular, the responsibility to coordinate the different
operators involved in the monitoring and evaluation system. PMU would be directly responsible to
monitor input indicators. The monitoring of output and outcome indicators for the Coastal Forest
Reconstruction component would be the responsibility of the Forest Research Institute, under a contract
between the latter and the MAF. The monitoring of output and outcome indicators for the Forest Fire
Management component would be the responsibility of Mol who would contract the appropriate
operator(s). As mentioned earlier, the monitoring of the economic and environmental impact of the
project would be the responsibility of, respectively, the Institute of Tourism and the Croatia Ecological
Society, under particular contracts between the latter and the MAF.
Implementation and Cost
16.          A detailed proposal for the implementation of this system, including costs and
organizational arrangements, would be presented by the MAF before the negotiations of the Loan. At
this stage, the cost of the implementation of the proposed system is an estimated US$250,00, according
to the following tentative breakdown:
*        monitoring of output and outcome indicators for
the Coastal Forest Reconstruction component
by the Forest Research Institute, and for
the Forest Fire Management component by the Mol      US$150,000
*        monitoring of the economic impact of the project
by the Institute of Tourism, and of the environmental
impact of the project by the Croatia Ecological Society  US$100,000
E. ROLE OF THE BANK
17.          Careful project supervision would be undertaken by the World Bank. In order to ensure
that the PMU and the Mol and HS services involved in the project are fully aware of project
implementation arrangements, including procurement, the Bank will organize a one-week project start-up
seminar when the project becomes effective, tentatively in October 1996. The project would be
subsequently supervised by the World Bank on average twice a year according to the supervision plan
presented in the table below. The proposed budget for this supervision work is 108 staff weeks. The



ANNEX B
Page 9 of 13
core supervision team would include the Task Manager, currently a forester, an economist/financial
specialist, supplemented by additional specialists according the needs.
TABLE B.6: PROposm SuPERvSoN STAF WEEK ALLOCATION
I Staff Weeks (FY97) I Staff Weeks (FY98)  I
Proposed Staffing Pattem*   October    May      October      May        Staff Weeks      Total
FY93-02**
Task Manager                 5          5          4           3            26            43
Economist/Financial          4          4          3           3            22            36
Specialist
Additional Specialist        3          3          3           2            18            29
Total                        12         12         10          8            66            108
*       Includes field and office work
**      An intensive Mid-Term Review of the Project would be undertaken in the spring of 2000 to assess overall project progress
and to make recommendations for adjustments in project implementation as required.



ANNEX B
Page 10 of 13
Appendix 1
INDICATIVE TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS FOR TEIE SEAPLANE AIR-TANKER(S)
- Twin engine;
- Turboprop;
- Amphibian;
- 5,000 liter capacity and up;
- 2 pilots;
- 2 doors system to drop water;
- Hydrolic assisted controls;
- 4 hour range minimum;
- Cruising speed 160 kts and up;
- High crosswind capability (4m/sec);
- Dispersion characteristics.
The following additional items will be also part of the
bidding document specifications:
- Guaranty;
- Training (pilots and mechanics);
- Spare parts for three years;
- Operation & Maintenance



ANNEX B
Page 11 of 13
Appendit 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO HRVATSKE 9UME
Background
1.    Hrvatske Sume (HS) is a state-owned Enterprise created on January 1, 1991 under the Forestry Law. HS
is responsible for managing about 2 million ha of state and other public forest land. HS is a financially autonomous
enterprise under the control of the MAF. It is managed by a Director General who reports to a 9-member Executive
Board. HS is organized in 16 forest districts ('Uprava Suma' ) and 173 local offices ( " Sumarijas"). Forest activities
are partly carried out by H(,'s own work-force (10,000 employees) and partly by private contractors (about 40%
of forest activities). HS staff also carries out non-direct forestry activities such as road constructions, transportation
of logs, nurseries, fisheries, housing and resort management.
2.    Ht organizational structure and management is considered satisfactory and since its creation the company
has always been profitable. However, HS's operations and performance have been affected by the war and HS'
is still recovering from its aftermath: disorganization within the forests, war damages, forest workers drafted by
the Army but still on HS's payroll, requisitions of equipment and material for the Army. HS's overheads are
increasing (from an estimate 30% of total costs in 1993 to 37% in June 1995) mainly because of the overstaffing
of administrative employees (13 % of total employees in 1995 compared to 11 % in 1993). About 1,400 employees
are occupied in non-core forestry activities with a high value of fixed assets (housing, resorts, machines and
equipment). Finally, HS is obliged to be controlled by external auditors; but HS's financial accounts are not
required to meet international standards.
3.    As part of the institutional strengthening component, the project will provide technical assistance to
Hrvatske tume (HS) in three critical areas: (i) accounting and financial control; (ii) privatization of non-core
activities; and (iii) human resource development.
Accounting and Financial Control
4.    The project will assist HS in improving the accounting system, the financial control and the reporting of
financial management information in the context of the existing decentralized system. The objectives would be to
obtain accounts approaching international standards and consolidated information controlled by auditors. Such an
improvement would be reached by introducing a double accounting system for profit-oriented and non profit-
oriented activities (e.g., within protective forests); this new system would clarify HS's relationship with the State
and increase the transparency of Forest Districts and Upravas' operations in the productive forests.
Scope of Work
5.    The technical assistance would:
a.    carry out a general review and assessment of the cost accounting system and audit procedures currently
being used by Ht with regards to, among other things, (i) differences with international accounting standards; (ii)
adequacy of financial control; and (iii) method of reporting detailed and consolidated accounts to senior
management and the government;
b.    recommend in which form base financial information should be recorded and compiled;



ANNEX B
Page 12 of 13
c.     assist in designing and implementing an improved data recording system for actual revenues and costs as
they are accrued, based on the separate accounting of profit-oriented activities and non-commercial activities, and
recommend the degree of data compilation and the reporting categories required for control purposes and the
production of management accounts;
d.    assist in designing and implementing an appropriate reporting format to record actual revenue and cost data
in such a way that performance can be measured monthly against budgeted figures;
e.    assist in developing and implementing a financial monitoring system whereby actual results are measured
against budgeted results on a regular basis and at intervals of not more than one month;
f.    develop appropriate internal audit procedures.
6.    Moreover, the technical assistance would help HD assess the financial consequences of the recovery of
previously occupied forests , particularly as concerns the financial sustainability of HS.
Privatization of Non-core Activities
7.    Hg has developed and started to implement a program for privatizing non-core forestry activities; however,
the scope of the privatization process is limited to a few operations (a small trading activity in Vincovci, a fish-
packaging plant in Lanisce, a tooth-pick plant in Vrbovsko, a fish nursery in Lipovljani, and a hunting resort in
Delnice). The privatization process should include all non-core forestry activities, such as fisheries, nurseries,
housing and resorts, and also transportation and road construction (those two activities are making heavy losses
according to the cost analysis). Around 1,400 employees are occupied in those activities.
8.    The technical assistance would:
a.     help design a complete privatization program concerning all non-core forestry activities taking into
consideration all possible options (leasing, selling with installment contracts, renting formulas...);
b.    help evaluate assets, identify priorities and design financing plans;
c.    help design and implement training schemes for former Hg's employees affected by the privatization
process, particularly oriented at strengthening their capabilities as entrepreneurs;
d.    advise and help implement the phasing-out of administrative staff, according to the privatization program
and overheads cut plan.
Human Resource Development
9.    Ht's Development Program for 1991-2025 aims at improving the efficiency of the enterprise's activities,
partly through a reorganization of H§'s staff within the existing structure. The objective would be to significantly
decrease the overheads by lower the number of administrative staff to European standards. This policy would be
implemented in parallel with the privatization program and the pre-retirement program implemented since 1993.
The technical assistance would help (a) design a reorganization plan which would reduce the staff ratio to four
technical staff for one administrative staff (instead of the actual ratio of two out of one;) and (b) implement the
program over the next five years.



ANNEX B
Page 13 of 13
Appendix 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR TRAING AND TECENCAL ASSISTANCE TO THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
Background
1.    The threat of forest fires represent the greatest danger to the coastal forests of Croatia. Due to both natural
and human caused conditions, the occurrence of forest fires has become a regular feature of the Croatia coastal
region. The outbreak of war in 1991 also contributed to the destruction of forest land by incendiary bombing.
The Ministry of Interior (Mol) has developed and is beginning to implement a comprehensive strategy that
combines measures to improve its fire prevention, fire detection and fire -fighting capabilities by establishing an
improved system of fire control. Prevention and pre-suppression activities are joint responsibility of the Mol and
the Ministry of Agriculture through Hrvatske Sume (HS). The Mol has the main responsibility for fire
suppression, and through its command center in Zagreb and seven regional operational centers coordinates the
activates of various fire brigades located in municipalities throughout the country.
2.    As part of the fire-management component, the project will provide technical assistance to MoI to improve
the organization in the field of forest fire pre-suppression and suppression in the coastal zones of Croatia. This
would include the assistance from international experts and study tours to countries and organizations facing
problems similar to those in Croatia.
Scope of Work
3.     The technical assistance program designed under the Project would include:
Training at operational centers located in France (Marseille, Valabre, Marignane, Toulon, Avignon, and Nice)
4.     The training program would be organized in two modules: one-week course targeted to the Chiefs and
Deputy Chiefs of the Croatian Operational Centers (14 participants) and two-week course for two higher level staff
from each centers (14 participants). The training program would focus on:
i)     coordination of air and land fire-fighting forces and communication methods;
ii)    short-term planning of fire-fighting activities (one to two days)
iii)   long-term planning of fire-fighting activities
iv)    economic analysis of different uses of aerial fire-fighting
v)     data collection and recording at the Operational Centers
Technical assistance for the purchase of highly specialized eguipment under the project
5.     Consultant services will be provided under the project to advise and assist the Moi in the selection and
purchase of fire-fighting equipment, GIS, telecommunication and weather forecast systems. The consultant(s) will
assist in the preparation of technical specifications, bidding documents and selection of firms under LIB or IS
procedures
Study tours on forest fire management in Mediterranean countries
6.     Selected staff of the operational centers will visit operational centers in France, Portugal and Italy to
exchange views and learn from the experience on fire fighting protection system in the Mediterranean coastal area.






Concordance Table
Republic of Croatia
Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project
SAR No.: 15518-HR
Agreements Reached and            Corresponding Section of Legal Documents
Recommendations                                                         l
6.1(b) Procurement and disbursement       L.A. 3.02, Schedule 4, Schedule 5
procedures be satisfactory to the Bank  P.A. 2.02
6.1(c) Contractual arrangements between the  L.A. 3.08
borrower and the other Government
entities be acceptable to theBank
6.1(g) Project Mid-Term Review be carried   L.A. 3.05 (b), (c)
out by June 30, 1999
6. 1(g) New cost accounting system be     P.A. 4.02
adopted by HS by project mid-term
6. 1(h) Project accounts and HS's accounts    L.A. 4.01(b)
be audited by independent auditors  P.A. 4.01(b)
acceptable to the Bank
6.2(a) Signature of Subsidiary agreement  L.A. 6.01
between the borrower and HS,
approved by the Bank, be condition
of effectiveness
6.2(b) Establishment of Project Steering  L.A. 6.01
Committee and Project Management
Unit be condition of effectiveness
m: \cro\for\yeItog re\conco rd. tbl






AUSTRIA                       *-..-            >                                                                                                     A T  
. v_ . _ ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  R    O A  T I A
HUNGARY                                    COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION
V-2 o @)orozd,n2FS -1t AND PROTECTION PROJECT
<- fI-                                '9    '..   0 Krrp,..        K.pl- -                                                                          COASTAL CROATIA
- 2                                        ( {                            oy;s-_                        X     q                                FIRE-FIGHTING OPERATIONAL CENTERS
(           S L 0) V E N I >^2         >\ B A  ZAGREBDvcr  °virovlticr ,/5                                                           Zadar (3) (AND NUMBER OF FIRE BRIGADES)
o<9 \                                  - .    o       a X OBSERVATION POINTS:
0     PERMANENT
@Sisok    p                                                                      oo  >   VGt   <   7o   >  TEMPORARY
/  +'s,5~w4~               \     \w  &>y2Ka   +<                                               2           VukoKr                                 AIRCRAFT FACILITIES:
Park                                                       a-~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Vok-o             U    MAIN
Rieka Y               VinkPvc 0                                 STAND-BY
__             (7)                                                                         d                                                  REFORESTATION SITES
\  >g 'H S >, $            +        1.H                      j    ;    fi                >_o0  NURSERY
Pula /7t,  .~.-~' , g   ,<G49,   \ *                                                              O ARBORETUM
-  u I .A7                                                                                 /                       J-I                         REGION BOUNDARIES
> ! >t<0   MAJOR TOWNS
7-  Xi$*,RIVERS
-~ , °k<W2ospjc(tl ),                                                                                                        INTE - - - IINTERN ATIONAL BOUNDARIES
s)¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEE L>\t9/ATVIA      RUFeN
"ox  'tse  >  <>--   {-  BOSNIA   AND                                    DENMARK         -
HERZEGOVINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
NETH'~~~~~~~~~~UHUN
- -,,_ k e ~~~~~~H E R Z E G   O V I N A ri;ETUN  
-                                 -    j(2 -d,-OVA\K8'                                                                 SOVN\     \  a   \     RO          f
HUNGARY~~~FLRU
~~  \  YUGOSLAVIA                       "~~~~~. SPOLAN
4~~>  v  A-    br-vy,       N       (SERBIA!                 ITALY       -\   (sEaRB/Mobn)(  BULGARIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Duk(2  IS                   X,- MONTENEGRO                                                                       (                        _ 
6               ~~KILOMETEBS                         ,                                                                        s.                          LA-y     -                >-Z
RD Ths o -rw  p.o5dodh Ho Mp DrLi4TeWd   Il,ok.odoo,                                                          'RTRE
m   coloo.  d o.ioAo   oodo   ofRo oRooko ohooo    Ho oops dosy    noB oopky It                                                                                    GREKECETRE
-X noa fhpoooTh<olz WorU Boo Gnop, onypon,Ao i,1.0I* gol oooBUy.                                               /Z
o0~~~~                                                                                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,  n-        0s'






IBRD 28359
A U S T R I A  ~,,    v           +    ss                                                     A U S T R I A      -           <     s        
y f  <  . t -   j        e              ~~~~HU NG A RY                   >  _-r                                        XH uNG A R y
S  L 0 ' E N *\ A;                                                                              S      ,(5L0OVE NIA      E  3
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~~     EA,tG  RS Z5   E G     V I N'Xo A                                                        HEZEOVN
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FD   REP. (ADASFED. REP/  . OFt 
\  v4ev,,  5  (             BOSNIA  AND                                    w\    istx       t&      t a                BOSNIAUO   ANDA  YUGSLAVI
\  ~~< )oZedar '  s_>  >   HERZEGOVINA                         ~~ ~~~~~~~~SEBA                                                            (SERBIA/EREGVIA 
CoASTAL 4=j:. FOEST RECONTRCTON                        >                                                     COA,rSTA  FOEST REC.ONSRCTO
O  50  D  I      />       +                =nik *\ Y MONTENEGRO        R        D        SR       t c~~~~A-  AND PROTECTION                       MONTENEGR
MOSA ORE       STA 1X          INON TERNATIONAL-                   'i    s BONARE                           =MR CATHAN  FOREST                INON TERNATIONALBUDRE
NUMBER OF FIRES    r             CWAM   <-        _ _                   AREA 8URNED~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTBE 39






A U S T R I A                      f
r / >< H U N G A R Y // ~~~~~~~~~~~C  R    O A  T I A
HUNGARYCOAA
>2 >              -                                 <,.G                                                      -<.COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION
AND
4                             -                    ~~~~~~~~PROTECTION PROJECT
SLOVENIA  .         t--          t                       ,.Main Forest Types
CONTINENTAL FOREST TYPES
HILL AND SUBMOUNTAINOUS BEECH,
FIR AND SPRUCE
a-!f             -. ¢ , -    2   E  .                     SESSILE OAK AND COMMON OAK
Rije    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ''~COASTAL FOREST TYPES:
(    \  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~MARITIME BEECH AND HOP HOANBEAM
5 l l lir 4 - [ i e l t<' *+> { ) L i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EASTRN HORNBA
-z                -     *s  l|  ! HCWOLM OAK
Pua 1                                                                                                                                   MAJOR TOWNS
RIVERS
- \J.*INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2   s                                                         .                W-  SWHtEN              W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVIA \   IU
BOSNIA  AND                                      DENMA 
M  _         &                    ~~~~~~~~H E R Z E GO0 V I N A           o                                      U ls 
w~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;,, *-:\.   R   .|POMLA NIDA_ 
=~~~~~~ FE . RE. OF                                                                                . 
'*l% YUGOSLAVIA              rN-                   X .} UU
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F                       i't  I                                                   . I                    \. d (I
a (SERBIA/ | Lr PED.                              - . t ' *-
M     o           so          loo          150                                                     D     u k   MONTENEGRO  |                                    {   @ -_ C
'0   ,    ,'N~*~y.  ,   ,    0   F    1 m ~                                                                                             N                        N
w  S   tv   , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X Mq ~~~~~~~~~~~FDqrUko cU. ^R*P. OfC                                                               1*FW  kl
;n   Ihb,  , a&>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UO,_oo JnSLAVIA                                                                   F%1
D                                                                                                         tp  <lo  xsd  si. cn Ihe ped J ISr WcrU Gt.S, jA lW f ......................................   A   I   |L )
oos  ofa*, orotcrnool                                                                                l    *                         X                .        z~~~~~~~(SRMA









IMAGING
Report No:     15518 HR
Type: SAR



