Report No. PIC1654
Project Name                   Croatia-Coastal Forest Reconstruction...
and Protection Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Agriculture, Forestry
Project ID                     HRPA8334
Borrower                       Government of Croatia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry,
Avenija Vukovar 78, 41000 Zagreb, contact
person: Dr. J. Vukelic, Vice-Minister of
Forestry, Telephone: (38 41) 61 01 79;
Fax: (38 41) 44 20 70
Date This PID Prepared         January 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      February 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       February 1996
Projected Board Date           July 1996
Country and Sector Background
1.   Croatia has a large and well managed forest resource base, of just
over 2.4 million ha or 43.5% of the total land area, that is a strong
asset for both economic development and environment protection. The
soil and climatic conditions, specially in the inland part of the
country, are extremely favorable for productive forestry. Growing stock
is about 300 million m3, and net annual increment is 8.8 million m3;
according to a recent General Management Plan of Croatian forests, the
annual allowable cut is 5.2 million m3. Coastal forests, which belong
to the Mediterranean type, are far less productive than continental
forests; however, they have high environmental, amenity, and landscape
values, in particular for tourism which is the main economic activity in
coastal areas. Croatian forests entail a high share of the country's
biodiversity which is satisfactorily protected in a system of protected
areas covering about 8% of the total area of the country.     About 80% of
Croatian forests are public owned and managed by the efficient Hrvatske
+ume (H+) public enterprise, under the control of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry. The latter has recently developed a
comprehensive National Forest Policy that aims at sustainable
development of all the different types of forest, environment
protection, and conservation of forest biodiversity, and which has been
adopted by the Parliament. Croatia has a broad range of wood industries
with significant development potential; however, technology and
equipment are in many cases outdated and the industry faces structural
problems in the ongoing transition. The average contribution of
forestry and the wood industry to GNP, about 4%, has been rather
constant over the last years. Croatia is a net exporter of industrial
wood products, which represent about 12% of total Croatian exports
during the pre-war period.



2.   Croatia's forestry sector has been seriously affected by the recent
war.  About 30t of the forest land has been in occupied territories for
four years, thus reducing the annual national wood production. Outside
these territories where the impact of the war is being assessed, about
100,000 ha of forests have been affected by minefields, shelling, fires,
and other destruction which have resulted in severe impact on forest
resources (including wildlife), and forest management infrastructures.
About 15,000 ha of forests have been completely destroyed, mainly in the
coastal areas where the war has deeply affected the economy and local
employment.
3.     While the problems of inland forests are being solved by H+ with
its own resources, coastal forests of Croatia deserve immediate
attention and assistance. Indeed, Croatian coastal forests, like most
Mediterranean forests, have large areas of degraded stands resulting
from intense and long lasting human pressure for timber, fuel, and
grazing. In addition to being the most affected by recent war
activities, they have been neglected in the past, in comparison with
inland forests, in terms of protection and management. They are also
most sensitive to fire, mostly of human origin, that ravage a
significant area every year. The area burned annually, close to 9,000
ha of forests, has doubled between the early 1970s and the early 1990s,
because of growing human pressure, and also inefficient fire control
systems due to insufficient Government financial resources. At the same
time the coastal forests are a vital asset for the restoration of the
tourist industry, which is by far the dominating source of income in
this part of the country.
Objectives
4.   The main objective of the project is to restore and protect forest
land in the coastal zone of Croatia in order to enhance landscape and
recreation values of the region and thereby contribute to restore
tourism to its pre-war level. Other objectives related to the project's
main objective are to (i) restore the environmental role of coastal
forests destroyed by the war, in protecting soils and waters, and
initiate the restoration of the natural vegetation; (ii) address the
problem of forest fire that is a crucial threat to coastal areas; and
(iii) develop the knowledge base for improved management and protection
of coastal forests.
Description
5.   The project would have the following three components:
Coastal Forest Reconstruction (US$11.2 million). This component
includes (a) the rehabilitation of some 5,800 ha of forests through
reforestation of 5,000 ha of the 11,000 ha of forests destroyed by
war and fire damage in Senj, Zadar, +ibenik, Split, and Dubrovnik
areas, and silvicultural interventions in 800 ha of young stands in
areas affected by war destruction. Project supported reforestation
is designed to allow for the return of the native climacic forest
communities after one rotation. In each site, a mixture of mostly
indigenous Mediterranean coniferous and broadleaved species would
be selected on the basis of their adaptability to local harsh and
-2 -



sometime degraded conditions, their capacity to serve as cover
crops for indigenous oaks to regenerate, their value as shade and
landscaping trees in the vicinity of tourism facilities, and their
potential resistance to fire; (b) the reconstruction of the
nursery in Crno, in the vicinity of Zadar, that has been completely
destroyed during the war. The nursery would be re-established into
a modern containerized production unit to grow seedlings for the
coastal zone only; and (c) the reconstruction of the arboretum in
Trsteno, one of the most ancient in the world, close to Dubrovnik.
Forest Fire Management (US$47.0 million). The project would
provide major improvement to the existing system of fire management
for coastal forests of Croatia, and bring it closer to the
standards of other European countries with Mediterranean forests.
By enhancing fire prevention and fire-fighting capability, the
project would reverse the ongoing increase in forest fires and
reduce the area of forests burned each year significantly.
Prevention activities aim at reducing the number of fires and
increasing the resistance of forests to fires, once they have
started; they include (i) actions to raise public awareness of the
problem of forest fires; (ii) cleaning of roadside forests on 150
km of roads in fire sensitive areas; and (iii) reducing the amount
of flammable material in 1,200 ha of pine stands in high risk
areas. Pre-suppression activities would considerably improve the
capacity to forecast the occurrence of forest fires, to detect
forest fires as soon as they have started, and to access burning
areas for further terrestrial fire-fighting; they include (i) the
reconstruction of an efficient weather forecast system; (ii) the
development of the fire detection system with lookout towers,
lookout equipment, observers and patrols; and (iii) the development
of accessibility to fires by establishing 500 km of fire-fighting
roads. Suppression activities would support a major increase in
the capacity to combat forest fires by funding the equipment
necessary for an efficient integration of terrestrial and aerial
fire-fighting; they include (i) the establishment of a modern
telecommunication system; (ii) improved aerial fire-fighting (or
about 50t of the total cost of the component) by complementing the
existing fleet of seaplane air-tankers -- with the capability of
refilling their tanks by scooping up seawater -- with additional
aircraft, and reconstruction of aircraft facilities destroyed by
the war; (iii) improved terrestrial fire-fighting with trucks
adapted to forest conditions and other fire-fighting equipment; and
(iv) computer and GIS equipment for the operational centers that
coordinate fire-fighting.
Support Services (US$5.2 million). The project would support (a)
research into improved genetic base of Aleppo pine (together with
increased economic utilization of its wood), evaluation of the gene
base of Daatian oaks, development of improved silvicultural
techniques, and revised costing standards for plantation
establishment; (b) testing of new methods of aerial fire-fighting;
(c) technical assistance to H+ to plan the privatization of non-
core assets, and improve its organization and financial management
to better differentiate its commercial and public functions; (d)
training and technical assistance to the Ministry of Interior to
- 3 -



improve the organization of field activities for forest fire
management; and (e) the project monitoring and evaluation system.
Financing
6.   The total project cost is an estimated US$63.4 million including
contingencies of US$8.3 million. Project financing would include (i) a
budgetary contribution allocated to the MoI (US$8.9 million); (ii) H+'s
contribution with its own resources (US$17.5 million); and (iii) a US$37
million World Bank loan. The latter, or 58 percent of total project
costs, would finance all foreign exchange associated with project costs
net of taxes and duties. A portion of the loan amount (US$7 million)
would be passed through the Ministry of Finance to H+ to finance the
activities of the project for which the latter is responsible; H+ would
repay that portion of the loan. Cofinancing of project activities,
technical assistance and training in particular, is being sought from
bilateral donors, but no firm commitment has been reached at this stage.
Implementation
7.   The responsibilities for implementing project activities would be
shared between (i) H+ (Coastal Forest Reconstruction, most of prevention
and pre-suppression activities in the Forest Fire Management component,
and forestry research in the Support Services component), under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry; and (ii) the Ministry of Interior
(raising public awareness, weather forecast system, and suppression
activities in the Forest Fire Management component, and testing new
methods of forest fire management in the Support Services component).
In addition, the Ministry of Interior would be responsible for
coordinating the Forest Fire Management component. Particular
activities, mostly under the Support Services component, would be
contracted either by H+ or by the Ministry of Interior (MoI) to other
Government agencies and to an NGO. Project management would be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF), with
the support of a Project Steering Committee and a Project Management
Unit staffed by both MAF and MoI.
Sustainability
8.   Sustainability is an important aspect of project objectives and
design. Environmental sustainability would be restored in project areas
through the reconstruction of forests destroyed by the war, and improved
protection from fire over the long term. Economic sustainability of
coastal areas would be improved thanks to an enhanced environment for
touristic activities. Financial sustainability of project funded
activities would be secured thanks to (i)increased fiscal revenues from
tourism to finance the Ministry of Interior's budget for fire control;
and (ii) improved financial efficiency of H+ which would be able to
sustain its present financial support to coastal forests, that would be
sufficient to finance the maintenance of reconstructed forests funded by
the project.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
9.   Lessons from previous Bank involvement in the country will be drawn
- 4 -



mainly from the Emergency Reconstruction Project. Experience gained in
previous Bank involvement in the forestry sector in Mediterranean
countries such as Morocco, Portugal, Tunisia, and Turkey will be also
beneficial in project implementation, as well as more recent experience
in Central European forestry under the ongoing project in Poland and the
project which is starting in Albania.
Environmental Aspects
10. Since the project has strong environmental focus and components, it
has been given the Environmental Category "B" designation:
"Projects/Components Which May Have Specific Environmental Impacts -
More Limited Environmental Analysis Appropriate". An Environmental
Review (ER) of the project has been carried out by the Croatia
Ecological Society (CES), an NGO selected by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry in agreement with the World Bank; CES' draft report,
completed in December 1995, has been reviewed and approved by the Bank.
CES concludes that the project would have an overall important and
positive effect on the coastal environment, in comparison of which the
potentially negative impacts identified during the review would be very
small. As regards the latter, the main concerns raised by CES are (i)
the species composition in reforestation activities, which should
include more broadleaves in order to make the process of forest
rehabilitation more efficient; and (ii) the potential impact of
reforestation activities -- the utilization of fertilizers in particular
-- and of fire-fighting roads on fresh water ecosystems. The proposed
mitigation measures to address (i) have already been incorporated in the
project design; the measures to address (ii) would be discussed during
project appraisal. In line with the experience gained in other
Mediterranean countries utilizing aerial fire-fighting methods similar
to those supported by the project, CES has not identified the
utilization of sea water to suppress forest fires as a serious
environmental problem. CES has also proposed a monitoring program on
floral and faunal indicators, with a strong emphasis on the latter,
which would be reviewed during appraisal as part of the envisaged
project monitoring system.
Program Objective Categories
11. Field activities of the project would provide employment in an area
of the country where war has deeply affected the economy and resulted in
increased unemployment and poverty.
Project Benefits
12. Most of the benefits expected from the project would be improved
landscape and environmental conditions of coastal forests, resulting
from the reconstruction of forests destroyed by the war and from the
reduction in areas of coastal forests burnt by fires. These major
benefits are expected, in turn, to contribute to increased economic
benefits from the rehabilitation of tourism. Other commercial, social,
and institutional and scientific benefits would also be generated either
by forest reconstruction and protection activities or by project
activities related to support services.
- 5-



Project Risks
13. The risk of hostilities within Croatia in general, and in its
coastal zone in particular, has been significantly reduced as a result
of the re-establishment of Government control, in early August 1995,
over most of Croatia's internationally recognized territory, and of the
recent Peace Agreement that has been reached in November 1995 in
neighboring Bosnia-Herzegovina. Although there may continue to be
regional tensions, the risk of conflict-related damage to project
investments is small.
Contact Point:       Frangois Wencblius, EC2AU
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 473-1172 (tel)
(202) 477-0816 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



