Page  1
                                                        CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4119 HR
                               Loan Agreement
            (Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated January 31, 1997
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4119 HR
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     (B)  Parts A (1) (a) and A (2); B(1) (b) and (c); B(2) (b) and (c);
C(2) (a) and (b); and C(3) (a) of the Project will be carried out by
Hrvatske Sume (HS) withb the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to HS a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Bank and HS;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expendi-
          tures in the territories of any country which is not a
          member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
          Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of
          the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ASA" means Academy of Sciences and Arts, registered with the
Ministry of Science and Technology on March 12, 1996 with Registration
No. 0101/1995;
     (b)  "CES" means Croatia Ecological Society, registered at the
Ministry of Justice on December 15, 1987 with Registration No.
UP/I-04-IV;
     (c)  "FRI" means Forestry Research Institute, registered at
Trgovacki suda (the Commercial Court) in Zagreb on July 5, 1996 with
Registration No. FI-62/96;
     (d)  "HS" means Hrvatske Sume, registered at Trgovacki suda in
Zagreb on December 31, 1990 and Registration No. FI 12896/90-2;
     (e)  "HS Statute" means the statutes of HS registered at
Trgovacki suda in Zagreb on December 31, 1990;
     (f)  "IOT" means Institute of Tourism, registered at Trgovacki
suda in Zagreb December 4, 1986 with Registration No. US-483/1986;
     (g) "MAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry;
     (h) "MHS" means Meteorological and Hydrological Service,
registered with the Census Bureau on May 31, 1995 with Registration
No. 3206017;
     (i) "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior;
     (j) "PMU" means Project Management Unit established within MAF;
     (k) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
Hrvatske Sume (HS) of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (l) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
Page  3
     (m) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and HS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as
of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the pre-
ceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
               the date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
               bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
               provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  4
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
               of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
               accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
               preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
               applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
               Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
               such Quarter."
               "(c)(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period com-
               mencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
               in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)  shall carry out Parts A(1) (b) and A(3); B(1) (a); B(2)
               (a); B(3); C(1); C(2) (c) and ; C(3) (b); and (d); C(4)
               and C(5) of the Project with due diligence and
               efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
               strative, financial and environmental practices and
               shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
               services and other resources required for such Parts of
               the Project; and
         (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
               obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
               shall cause HS to perform all its obligations set forth
               in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
               taken all action, including the provision of funds,
               facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
               appropriate to enable HS to perform such obligations,
               and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
               which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b) The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the
Loan to HS, in the amount equivalent to seven million five hundred
thousand Dollars ($7,500,000) allocated from time to time to
Categories (1) (b); (1) (d); (2) (b); (3) (b); (4) (b) and 5 (b) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and HS, under terms and con-
ditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall
include: (i) 17-year maturity, including 5-year grace period; (ii)
an interest rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower to the
Bank under Section 2.05 of this Agreement plus a margin to compensate
the Borrower for part of the commitment charges payable under the
Loan; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by HS.
Page  5
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A(1) (a)
and A(2), B(1) (b) and (c); B(2) (b) and (c); C(2) (a) and (b); and
C(3) (a) of the Project shall be carried out by HS pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about March 31, 1999, a report inte-
grating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period pre-
ceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recom-
mended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following
such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by June 30, 1999, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommenda-
tions of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
     Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall establish and thereafter main-
tain PMU within MAF which, at all times, shall be adequately staffed
and shall operate in accordance with the terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank.  PMU shall be responsible for coordinating
implementation of the Project by various implementing agencies and
for the Project monitoring and evaluation.
     Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain a Project Steering Committee which shall be responsible
for the approval of the annual Project work programs and budgets
prepared by PMU, the carrying out of quarterly reviews of the
progress achieved in the Project implementation, the approval of
budget adjustments proposed by PMU, and the overall monitoring of
the Project execution.
Page  6
     Section 3.08.  For the purpose of carrying out Parts B (2)
A(3)(a); B (2)(a); C(2) (b) and C(4 and C(5) of the Project, the
Borrower shall enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
with ASA, HS, MHS, FRI, CES and IOT, which shall set forth the
responsibilities of each of the above-mentioned entities with
respect to the Project implementation.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower or HS responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall or shall cause HS to:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section including those for the
               Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  HS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
Page  7
the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that HS will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The HS Statute shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability
of HS to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of HS or
for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and HS in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.01(b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  the Borrower has established PMU in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.076 of this Agreement; and
     (c)  the Borrower has established a Project Steering Committee
referred to in Section 3.067 of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by HS, and is legally binding upon HS in accordance with its
terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and HS and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and HS in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
Page  8
          Ministry of Finance
          Katanciceva 5
          41000 Zagreb
                                   Telex:
                                   862-21215
                                   862-28133
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                    By /s/ Miomir Zuzul
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Hans Apitz
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                                (Expressed in       Expenditures
                                    Dollar              to be
     Category                     Equivalent)         Financed
(1)  Works
     Construction Works
     (a)  under Part A3 (b)          700,000        45%
     and B3 (b) of the Project
     (b)  under Parts A2,          2,700,000        45%
     B2 (b) and (c), and C2 (b)
Page  9
     of the Project
     Forest Works
     (c)  under Parts A1 (b)         200,000        20%
     and A3 (a) of the Project
     (d)  under Parts A1 (a),      1,300,000        20%
     B1 (b) and (c) of the
     Project
(2)  Goods                                          100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
     (a)  under Parts A3 (c),     26,300,000        100% of local
     B2 (a), B3, C1 C2 (c)                          expenditures
     and C5 of the Project                          (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 85%
     (b)  under Parts A1 and       1,300,000        of local
     A2, B2 (b) and C2 (a)                          expenditures for
     of the Project                                 other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)  Technical services                             40%
     (a)  under Parts B1 (a), C1     800,000
     and C2 (c) and (d)
     of the Project
     (b)  under Parts C2 (a),        700,000
     of the Project
(4)  Technical assistance and                       50%
     training
     (a)  under Parts C1, C2 (c),    300,000
     C4 and C5 of the Project
     (b)  under Parts C2 (a) and     200,000
     C3 of the Project
(5)  Unallocated                   7,500,000
     (a) in respect of Parts A1    6,200,000
     (b) and A3; B1 (a); B2 (a);
     B3; C1, C2 (c) and (d); C4
     and C5 of the Project
     (b) in respect of Parts A1    1,300,000
     (a) and A2; B1 (b) and (c),
     B2 (b) and (c); C2 (a) and
     (b) and C3 of the Project
                                  __________
     TOTAL                        42,000,000
                                  ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $720,000, may be made in respect of
Category (1) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after February 23, 1996.
Page  10
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for
goods under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent; (ii) for
works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent; (iii) for
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less
than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) for services provided by individual
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (v)
for works under contracts awarded in accordance with Part C5 (Force
Account) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (vi) for
training expenditures, under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to restore and protect forest land
in the Borrower's coastal zone in order to enhance landscape and
recreation values of the region and thereby contribute to restoration
of tourism.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Coastal Forest Reconstruction
1.   Rehabilitation of coastal forests in selected areas along the
coast, from Senj (Primorje) to Dubrovnik, including: (a) reforesta-
tion of 4,500 ha of forests on state land and silvicultural inter-
ventions in 800 ha of young stands; and (b) reforestation of 500 ha
on private land.
2.   Construction of a new  nursery near Zadar.
3.   Reconstruction of the arboretum in Trsteno, including: (a) forest
works; (b) water supply works; and (c) purchase of equipment.
Part B:   Forest Fire Management
1.   Carrying out forest fire prevention activities including:
     (a)  actions to raise public awareness of forest fire hazards;
     (b)  cleaning over 560 ha of roadside forests, including the
removal of the flammable undergrowth and pruning of the lower
branches of trees on a 25 m-wide strip; and
     (c)  thinning and pruning of fire sensitive forest stands over
1,200 ha.
2.   Carrying out of forest fire pre-suppression activities, including:
     (a)  re-establishment of a weather forecast system for forest
fire management;
     (b)  establishment of new lookout towers, and provision of lookout
equipment; and
     (c)  construction of about 500 km of fire-fighting roads.
3.   Supporting forest fire suppression activities through:
     (a)  the establishment of a comprehensive telecommunication system
for forest fire-fighting;
     (b)  the purchase of a new seaplane air-tanker and reconstruction
of aircraft facilities; and
     (c)  provision of fire-fighting equipment and training to
terrestrial fire-fighting forces.
Page  11
Part C:   Support Services
1.   Development of a Geographic Information System (GIS) within the
MOI.
2.   Supporting research activities through: (a) a forestry research
program; (b) construction of research facilities; (c) a research
program for the development of the GIS; and (d) testing of new
methods of aerial fire-fighting.
3.   Provision of technical assistance to  HS to: (a) develop and
adopt an efficient cost accounting system for H; (b) develop a plan
to complete the ongoing privatization of HS's assets not directly
linked with the HS's core activities relating to the forest management
with a focus on assessing priority sectors for further privatization,
and suitable privatization timetable; and (c) organize management
training programs for HS's employees develop a plan for human resource
development.
4.   Provision of training and other technical assistance to MOI to:
(a) improve the organization of field activities of forest fire pre-
suppression and suppression in coastal zones; and (b) help MOI to
prepare technical specifications and bidding documents for the purchase
of specialized equipment.
5.   Provision of technical assistance to support to PMU and to develop
a project monitoring and evaluation system.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning June 15, 2002
     through June 15, 2013              1,750,000
on December 15, 2013                    1,750,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  12
                           Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
     Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                       The interest rate (expressed
                                       as a percentage per annum)
                                       applicable to the Loan on
                                       the day of prepayment mul-
                                       tiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                      1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be  advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8
of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Page  13
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $25,200,000 equi-
valent, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited
number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
4.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $665,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
5.   Force Account
     Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guide-
lines, and costing $1,400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
6.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quota-
tions obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for
the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of  paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods and works awarded in
accordance with the provisions under Part B of this Schedule and the
first two contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and C.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
Page  14
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3),
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
Page  15
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis
               of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
               the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and
               deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
               Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
               shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account; or
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
Page  16
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
