Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4119 HR
                             Project Agreement
           (Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                               HRVATSKE SUME
                           Dated January 31, 1997
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4119 HR
                            PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HRVATSKE SUME (HS).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Croatia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that HS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and HS, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to HS on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS HS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
Page  2
meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01.  HS declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out Parts A (1) (a) and A (2); B(1) (b) and (c); B(2)
(b) and (c); C(2) (a) and (b); and C(3) (a) of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for said Parts of
the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) HS shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A (1) (a)
and A (2); B (1) (b) and (c); B(2) (b) and (c); C(2) (a) and (b); and
C(3) (a) of the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions
and without limitation thereto, HS shall:
               (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
                    the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than
                    six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later
                    date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
                    Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
                    operation of the Project; and
              (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
                    views with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 2.04. HS shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HS
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) HS shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A (1) (a) and
A (2); B(1) (b) and (c); B(2) (b) and (c); C(2) (a) and (b); and C(3)
(a) of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  HS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A (1)
(a) and A (2); B(1) (b) and (c); B(2) (b) and (c); C(2) (a) and (b);
and C(3) (a) of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by HS of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. For the purpose of carrying out forest recon-
struction works on private land under Part A (1) (b) of the Project,
HS shall enter into contracts with private owners, in the form and
substance acceptable to the Bank, which shall specify the scope of
works, the terms of financing and supervision responsibilities of
HS.
     Section 2.07. For the purpose of carrying out Parts C(2)(a) and
(b) of the Project, HS shall enter into agreements, satisfactory to
the Bank, with ASA and FRI and University of Zagreb, which shall set
Page  3
forth the responsibilities of each of the above-mentioned entities
with respect to the Project implementation.
                                ARTICLE III
                      Management and Operations of HS
     Section 3.01. HS shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. HS shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) HS shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
     (b)  HS shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
               and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
               able to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year: (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02.  Not later than June 30, 1999, HS shall adopt a
new cost accounting system which shall be based on international
accounting standards.
                                ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of HS thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify HS thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     For HS:
          Hrvatske Sume
          Lj. F Vukotinovica 2
          Zagreb
                                   Fax:
                                   01-455-1138
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of HS may be taken or executed by the Director or such other
person or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and HS
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Hans Apitz
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                 Europe and Central Asia
                         HRVATSKE SUME
                         By /s/ Miomir Zuzul
                                               Authorized Representative
Page  5
