                     Document of
                   The World Bank




                                                 Report No: 27472

         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (CPL-41190 TF-29117)

                         ON A

                        LOAN

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$42 MILLION

                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                       CROATIA

                        FOR A

COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT




                   December 10, 2003

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                       Currency Unit = Kuna (HRK)
                                    1 = US$ 0.158210
                              US$ 1 = 6.32151

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1    December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BNPP    Dutch Partnership Trust Fund
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FAO     Food and Agricultural Organization
GIS     Geographic Information System
HS      Hrvatske Sume
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IOT     Institute of Tourism
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MAF     Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MoI     Ministry of Interior
NFPS    National Forest Policy and Strategy
NPV     Net Present Value
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
WWF     World Wildlife Fund

                      Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                   Country Director:     Anand K. Seth
                     Sector Manager:     Marjory-Anne Bromhead
                  Task Team Leader:      Gerhard Dieterle

                                          CROATIA
      COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P008334                                                  Project Name: COASTAL FOREST
                                                                     RECONSTRUCTION AND PROTECTION PROJECT
Team Leader: Gerhard Dieterle                                        TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: COASTAL FOREST RECONSTRUCTION AND L/C/TF Number: CPL-41190; TF-29117
                            PROTECTION PROJECT
   Country/Department: CROATIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (90%); Forestry (10%)
                  Theme: Other environment and natural resources management (P);
                            Biodiversity (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/02/1995                                     Effective:                           07/31/1997
     Appraisal: 02/01/1996                                         MTR: 06/30/1999                  11/09/1999
      Approval: 12/11/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF CROATIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE & FORESTRY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shiegeo Katsu                                  Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:                 Marjory-Anne Bromhead                          Michele E. De Nevers
Team Leader at ICR:             Gerhard Dieterle                               Francois Wencelius
ICR Primary Author:             Charis Wuerffel


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Croatia's coastal region is a renowned tourist destination and, as such, is an important economic asset to
the country. The coastal region is famous for its beautiful scenery, including the blue waters of the
Adriatic Sea and green, forest-covered hills. Tourism accounts for more than 10% of Croatia's GDP, with
more than 95% of the total yearly tourist overnight stays occurring in the coastal region. During the war in
1991-92, Croatia's coastal and island forests were severely damaged. Over 11,000 hectares of forest were
completely destroyed by fire, caused by incendiary bombs, rocket attacks and other war activities. Tourism
along the coast dropped drastically.

Following the war, reconstruction of the coastal areas was a priority concern for the Government. In
particular, rehabilitation and protection of forests were considered key elements for encouraging tourism
and restoring economic activities along the coast. However, due to the war, the institutions responsible for
managing coastal forests and suppressing forest fires were ill equipped to restore forests effectively. The
financial and institutional resources of Hrvatske Sume (HS) were not sufficient to maintain the high
standards of inland forest management while coping with a backlog of investments and the aftermath of
serious war damages along the coast. The Ministry of Interior (MoI) lacked the budgetary allocation to
establish a comprehensive system of fire management. In response, the Government of Croatia requested
funding from the World Bank for the Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project, and the project
became effective in 1997.

The main objective of the US$ 67.3 million project (Credit US$ 42.0 million) was to restore and protect
forest land in the coastal zone of Croatia in order to enhance landscape and recreation values of the region
and thereby contribute to restore tourism to its pre-war level. To achieve this objective, the project aimed to
(i) restore the environmental role of coastal forests destroyed by the war, by protecting soils and waters and
initiating the restoration of the natural vegetation; (ii) address the problem of forest fire that is a crucial
threat to coastal areas; and (iii) develop the knowledge base for improved management and protection of
coastal forests.

The objectives were important to the country's economic and social development and realistic in scale and
scope. They were also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower. The project was consistent with
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the global and ECA forest policy strategy and
guidelines.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised during implementation of the project.


3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following three components:

i. Coastal Forest Reconstruction (US$ 11.9 million). Under this component, the project planned to: (a)
rehabilitate 5000 hectares of private and public forests affected by war activities along the coast, including
clearing destroyed stands of burned trees and reforesting burned areas; (b) reconstruct the nursery in Zadar,
to grow seedlings of species utilized in reforestation programs in the coastal areas; and (c) reconstruct the
Arboretum in Trsteno, which was originally established in the 15th century and is one of the oldest
arboretums in the world.




                                                       - 2 -

ii. Forest Fire Management (US$ 47.9 million). This component was designed to improve fire
management for coastal forests through fire prevention, pre-suppression and suppression activities.
Prevention activities included campaigns to raise public awareness of fire risk and roadside forest cleaning
and thinning. Pre-suppression activities included the provision of equipment to forecast weather and
completion of a network of fire-fighting roads. Suppression activities included the provision of equipment
to strengthen the fire-fighting capacities of the Ministry of Interior. Specifically, the project was going to
purchase one new seaplane for aerial fire-fighting, and pay for the reconstruction of one hanger and several
stand-by facilities at airbases along the coast for maintenance of the seaplane. The project was also going
to establish a comprehensive telecommunication system, to improve communication and coordination of
fire-fighting activities, and provide fire trucks and smoke-jumping equipment, to improve terrestrial
fire-fighting.

iii. Support Services (US$ 7.5 million). This component was designed to include four main
sub-components. The first included provision of a Geographic Information System (GIS) to improve the
efficiency of Croatia's forest fire Operational Centers. The second subcomponent developed a research
program, to test methods of improving reforestation efforts and forest fire management. The third provided
technical assistance to HS to restore its profitability. This would involve (a) developing a cost-efficient
accounting system that would clearly separate commercial from non-commercial functions, and (b)
preparing a plan to complete the ongoing privatization of non-core assets. The plan would address human
resources issues related to privatization, including necessary reductions in administration staff. Finally, the
project was designed to provide technical assistance for project management and monitoring (including
establishment of a Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry).

3.4 Revised Components:
All three components were revised to some extent during project implementation. These revisions provided
the initially very technically oriented project with a much broader enabling institutional and policy
framework that took into account the overall stabilizing political, economic and social climate in Croatia.
All revisions were detailed in supervision mission reports and follow-up letters to the Government and
copied to the relevant Executive Director. Because the changes could be accommodated within the existing
project objectives, they did not require Board approval.

Under the coastal forest reconstruction component, reforestation on public land was reduced by about 3800
ha. Many areas that burned during the war regenerated naturally, reducing the need for manual
reforestation. Additionally, much of the manual reforestation that did take place under the project was very
unsuccessful. Due to unusually dry weather conditions and poor seedling stock, only 35% of the seedlings
that were planted survived. In response, the Bank agreed with HS to reduce reforestation activities and
focus instead on activities to thin stands of natural regeneration and clean areas of burnt forest. The
project also expanded its program of forest works on private land, which had strong community support
and proved to be very successful in reducing fire risk and improving landscape attractiveness for tourists.

As a consequence of the Government's decision to decentralize institutional responsibility for fire
suppression from the Ministry of the Interior to local governments procurement of the GIS and
telecommunication systems under the forest fire management component was cancelled. However, to
maintain the spirit of this activity, funding earmarked for the GIS system was reallocated to support the
establishment of the Regional Fire Management Center in Split, its training center and its outreach
activities to assist local fire management structures. Funds were used to improve fire fighting coordination
and capacities under the new framework including (a) acquisition of a basic start-up GIS for the Civil
Rescue and Protection Service Regional Centre "Divulje" in Split.(b) a pilot community education program
to build awareness of fire prevention, (c) improved training facilities for local fire-fighters, and (d)


                                                       - 3 -

technical assistance to the Regional Center.

The forest fire management component also originally included funding to reconstruct an airplane hanger
and construct stand-by facilities at airbases along the coast for the new seaplane. Shortly after the project
became effective, alternative facilities for the seaplane were identified. The Government requested that the
money for the hanger be reallocated for demining forest areas in Srd. The per hectare cost of demining,
however, was too high and could not be justified under the project's economic analysis. Consequently, the
Bank and Government agreed that the funding could be used to purchase two initial fire attack airplanes, to
increase MoI's aerial fire-fighting capacity.

The research activities envisaged as part of the support services were cancelled. After in-depth discussions
establishing the procedures for accessing and using loan funds for research, the Forest Research Institute,
which was directly responsible for research activities under the project, believed it was no longer in a
position to participate in the project following the loss of five of its scientists in a tragic traffic accident.
When a broad national request for research proposals failed to solicit interest, and with only two years left
during project implementation, the Bank agreed with the Government that the research component should
be dropped from the project. Some of the funding was reallocated to provide technical assistance for
preparation of a study for the strategic restructuring of Hrvatske Sume. The remainder of the funds were
not used and were cancelled at the end of the project.

The most substantial change introduced during project implementation took account of the Government's
new policy on reforming and restructuring State enterprises. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF) requested Bank assistance for the preparation of a comprehensive plan for the strategic
development of HS as a limited liability company. The project provided international technical assistance
to develop a plan for restructuring HS into an environmentally responsible, economically viable and
profitable forest company. The work was carried out during the period between October 2001 and March
2003. The restructuring plan was adopted by the Government as proposed in July 2003.

To complement this process, MAF also requested the Bank's assistance to prepare a National Forest Policy
and Strategy (NFPS) that would provide an enabling framework for forest sector reforms. The NFPS was
prepared in 2002 and 2003, with funding from the Dutch Partnership Trust Fund, and was adopted by the
Government in July 2003. The NFPS process was the first fully participatory process in the Croatian
forest sector and received wide attention at national and international levels.

The project also secured additional funding for the development of National Standards for sustainable
forest management. These standards provide internationally accepted criteria and indicators for sustainable
forest management and forest certification and are an essential requirement for improving access to
environmentally sensitive markets in Western Europe. This activity was also financed by the Dutch
Partnership Trust Funds (BNPP), with additional funding from the WWF/World Bank Alliance, and is
expected to be finalized by the end of 2003.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project was designed in response to the political and
economic situation in Croatia following the war. In particular, the project responded to the Government's
priorities to reconstruct war-damaged areas, invest in infrastructure, and build institutional capacity. The
project duration was appropriate to complete the project activities. The range and scope of project activities
was realistic given institutional capacities.

Conformity with Country Assistance Strategy. The project was consistent with the Bank's Country



                                                       - 4 -

Assistance Strategy (CAS) in pursuing its policy objective of rebuilding and upgrading war-damaged
infrastructure in Croatia. The project was one of several environmental projects envisaged under the CAS
as part of a long-term program to restore and maintain favorable ecological conditions in Croatia's coastal
areas.

Consistency of project with Bank's safeguard policies. In accordance with OP 4.01, an environmental
assessment of the project design was carried out. The assessment concluded that the project would have an
overall positive effect on the coastal environment. Concerns raised during the assessment were integrated
into the project design: the species composition under the reforestation component included broadleaves,
and no fertilizers were used when planting and maintaining seedlings. Strict guidelines were developed to
ensure that construction of new fire-fighting roads caused minimal damage to the environment and never
occurred within 50 meters from water-courses. In accordance with OP 4.04, the project supported the
rehabilitation of degraded natural habitats and maintenance of their ecological functions by restoring
degraded forests along the coast. The project design was also consistent with the Bank's safeguard policy,
OP 4.36, on forestry.

Project risks: At the time of project design, the project was foreseen to have few risks. Resumption of
hostilities was considered to be a minimal risk, especially for project investments. The potential risk of
reduced economic benefits from the project, due to delay in the recovery of tourism, was mitigated in the
project design by adopting conservative values in the project's economic analysis. However, the designers
did not take into consideration risks associated with weather and overall climate change. Extremely dry
and windy conditions in 2000 were to blame for one of Croatia's worst fire seasons, when more than
37,000 hectares of forest burned along the coast. The damage from this one year alone was three times the
amount of damage that occurred during the war. Failure to anticipate this risk makes re-calculating the
benefits of the project problematic. Although forest fire management efficiency increased considerably as a
result of the project, calculations of reduction of forest fire frequency and average size did not materialize.

The project designers also were not in a position to anticipate the risks associated with institutional change
and, in particular, decentralization of the responsibility for forest fire management to local governments.
Poor operation and maintenance of fire-fighting equipment was considered a minimal risk, given the
Ministry' of Interior's previous experience and excellent training program. However, the capacity of local
governments to fund and support fire suppression was not considered. When fire-fighting responsibilities
were decentralized to local governments in 2001, many local fire brigades were under-funded and
ill-equipped to take on responsibilities for fire-suppression, maintenance of fire-equipment and coordination
of activities at local, regional and national levels.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall rating of the project's outcomes is satisfactory. The project achieved its objectives of
enhancing the landscape and recreational values of the region. It improved national and local capacity to
prevent and fight forest fires, and raised public awareness of fire risk and prevention measures. The
following project activities had particularly positive outcomes:

i) The program to involve private land owners in the restoration of degraded and abandoned forest and
agricultural land was very successful. It provided funding for cleaning overgrowth and agricultural waste
and planting young olive trees. The program was particularly instrumental in encouraging the return of
persons displaced during the war. In addition, the program increased local awareness of fire risk associated
with abandoned land, and enhanced landscape values. Participants have an incentive to maintain the land
after the program, in return for increased olive production.



                                                       - 5 -

ii) The project initiated important activities to build capacity and encourage institutional reform to improve
the management and protection of coastal forests. In particular, the project provided technical assistance to
HS for institutional strengthening, including preparation of a restructuring study and implementation plan
for increasing HS efficiency and profitability. This achievement goes far beyond the activities initially
envisaged under the project for HS by providing the organization with a holistic approach towards reform
at local, regional and headquarters levels. The reorganization model chosen for Croatia can be regarded as
a best practice model in Europe, similar to successful examples in Latvia, Austria, Hungary, Ireland and
Germany.

iii) As noted above, the project was instrumental in leveraging additional financing for activities to
strengthen the regulatory framework for forest management in Croatia, including participatory development
of a National Strategy and Policy and National Forest Standards. The outcome of these two processes is,
in comparison with international standards, of high quality and can be seen as a key step in fulfilling
Croatia's commitments within the framework of the international forest regime (i.e., follow-up to Rio,
UN-IPF, UNFF) and the European Ministerial Forest Process (i.e., follow-up to Helsinki). Few countries
in Europe or worldwide have applied similarly participatory and systematic approaches when preparing
national forest policies and strategies. The National Standards for forest management are in line with
international best practice approaches and will boost Croatia's access with certified products to
environmentally sensitive markets in Western Europe and North America.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs achieved under each of the following components are considered satisfactory:

Coastal Forest Reconstruction

Rehabilitation of Coastal Forests. As noted above, the need for reforestation on public lands was reduced
considerably, due to a higher rate of natural regeneration of burnt forest land and in response to poor
seedling survival rates. In the end, the project funded reforestation of only 1,219 ha instead of 5,000 ha.
Instead, the project focused on thinning natural regeneration of allepo pine to improve growth rates (1,087
ha) and clearing burnt sites (1,132 ha). Forest works on private land were also increased. Initially
conceived only for the Dubrovnik area, the program was so successful that it was expanded to include
private forest owners all along the coast and on coastal islands. Over 2,200 private land owners received
project funds to restore 1085 ha of abandoned land. Thus a total of 4,523 ha was restored, compared with
the 5000 envisaged at appraisal.

Rehabilitation of Zadar nursery. The project funded the design and construction of a modern nursery near
the city of Zadar. The project also financed procurement of state-of-the-art nursery equipment, with
capacity to produce 3 million seedlings. The equipment package included training for nursery staff to
operate and maintain the new equipment.

Rehabilitation of the Arboretum of Trsteno. The project funded several activities at the Arboretum in
Trsteno. A wire fence was erected around the perimeter of the Arboretum; a water hydrant system was
installed for fire-fighting; and the Arobetum's aquaduct was restored.

Forest Fire Management

Prevention. This sub-component was very successful, especially in the area of Zadar. HS cleaned 336 ha
of roadside forests by removing flammable undergrowth and pruning lower branches to reduce fire risk and



                                                      - 6 -

act as fire breaks. HS also thinned 1,024 ha of roadside forests to reduce the amount of flammable
material in pine stands and increase their resistance to fire.

The project initially provided funding for billboards, posters and television advertisements to raise
awareness of forest fire risk and fire damage, especially among tourists. Statistics from MoI, however,
indicated that 70% of fires are caused by local resident negligence, particularly when burning agricultural
waste, while tourists are only responsible for 2% of forest fires. In response, the Institute of Tourism was
contracted to develop a pilot program that would raise fire awareness by targeting local communities,
rather than tourists and the general public. The pilot program was highly successful and amply
demonstrated that awareness campaign activities must be targeted to local communities if fire incidence is
to be reduced. Based on the success of the pilot program, Croatia is seeking additional funding to replicate
the program in several communities along the coast.
Pre-suppression. To improve pre-suppression of forest fires, the project purchased a weather forecasting
system for the State Weather Bureau to improve fire prediction and provide MoI with information on high
risk areas for placement of fire-fighting equipment and seasonal fire-fighting brigades. The project also
funded the construction of nine fire lookout towers and equipped the towers with radios, cellular phones
and binoculars. In addition, the project funded construction of 198 km of new fire-fighting roads and
reconstruction of 431 km of existing roads. The site-selection of roads and reconstruction activities was
determined according to criteria established by the Bank, in consultation with HS. The roads were
constructed in accordance with environmental standards, to address erosion and drainage concerns.

Suppression. Given the geographical features of Croatia's coast, fighting fires from the ground is often
difficult. Forests on steep slopes cannot be accessed by fire-fighting vehicles, and islands often lack the
equipment and manpower to fight large fires themselves. Consequently, fires often need to be fought from
the air. To strengthen the ability of the Ministry of Interior and local fire brigades in suppressing forest
fires, the project purchased aerial and terrestrial fire-fighting equipment. Three airplanes were purchased
to assist in aerial fire-fighting, including one Canadair C-415 seaplane and two initial attack airplanes. In
addition, 30 fire-fighting vehicles were distributed to fire brigades along the coast. The project also
procured 15 sets of smoke-jumping equipment.

Support Services

Under this component, the project strengthened the institutional capacity of institutions participating in the
project. A basic GIS unit was procured for the Civil Rescue and Protection Service Regional Center "
Divulje" in Split. To strengthen the forestry sector, the project funded the preparation of the HS
restructuring study. It also funded study tours for senior HS and MAF staff to visit European forest
management organizations in Ireland, Poland, Germany and Austria and learn about their restructuring
experiences. Finally, the project funded technical assistance for monitoring and evaluating the economic
and environmental impacts of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During project preparation, an economic analysis was carried out to calculate the economic rate of return
for the project's forest reconstruction and forest fire management components. Estimates were made of
benefits from: (a) the value of visible landscapes, (b) the existence value of regional forests, (c) wood
production, (d) hunting, and (e) erosion control. The analysis estimated that the reconstruction component
had a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$2.8 million and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 24% for
pre-selected sites. The estimated ERR for the forest fire management component was 13%, with a NPV of
about US$7.7 million. The ERR for the whole project was estimated at 15%. This was considered to be a
conservative rate, because many benefits (e.g., benefits to the local population, benefits from harvesting


                                                        - 7 -

non-timber forest products and watershed protection benefits) could not be quantified due to lack of
sufficient data.

Several studies were undertaken during project implementation that provided additional information on the
benefits of project activities. Based on these studies, a post-project summary economic analysis was
performed. Benefits were calculated for visible landscape values accruing to tourists and local residents
from global and local protection activities. Landscape benefits were calculated using three different
approaches: contingent valuation, Hedonic price method, and expert assessment. Benefits were also
calculated for the amount of forest fire reduced, based on the costs of damage to forest and agricultural
land, forest rehabilitation costs, losses to tourism, and environmental costs associated with carbon
sequestration. Benefits were estimated to accrue for 30 years from the start of the project, and a discount
rate of 5% was applied. The summary analysis found that the project has an economic rate of return
ranging from 15.75% to 21.48%, depending on which approach is used for valuing landscape benefits.
Similarly, the Net Present Value of the project ranges from US$50.3 million to US$84.2 million.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall institutional development impact of the project is moderate.

(i) Ministry of the Interior. Despite the decentralization of fire fighting responsibilities to local
governments, the impact of the project on MoI was moderately substantial. The methodology of fire
fighting has been improved considerably and is widely applied throughout the country. Terrestrial and
aerial fire fighting capacities increased substantially and will be maintained in the coming years. New
methods of training fire-fighters have been introduced, and the new training center is expected to
significantly improve the skills of local fire-fighting brigades. Fire fighting in Croatia is cost efficient,
compared to Croatia's Mediterranean neighbors, and reaction times for aerial fire-fighting are up to
international standards. Further adjustments of institutional responsibilities for fire management are being
considered and are expected to result in a more balanced mix between centrally executed and locally
executed fire-fighting responsibilities. Such arrangements will further improve the sustainability of forest
fire management capacities in Croatia..

(ii) Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF). Overall, the project helped strengthened MAF's policy
and supervisory role for the Croatian forestry sector. Despite its limited resources, MAF developed
significant capacities to lead participatory processes and discussions on forest policy. With support of the
project, MAF prepared a National Forest Policy and Strategy (NFPS), which was the first participatory
process of its kind in Croatia, and National Standards for Sustainable Forest Management and Forest
Certification. The NFPS and National Standards will have a long-term impact on the future development
of Croatia's forest sector. Through these documents, MAF has laid the foundation for a thorough
re-orientation of the forest sector, integrating Croatia into the international forest regime and establishing
compatibility with EU accession standards. With certification, management of Croatia's state forests will
become more sustainable and high conservation value forests will be better protected. This is a highly
satisfactory and sustainable achievement.

However, in light of Hrvatske Sume's reorganization and increasingly commercial functions, only initial
steps could be achieved to re-structure the forest administration and forest service under MAF (forest
inspection, extension services, public good forest management etc.). Significant planning and capacity
building is still necessary to build up these important oversight functions. As the owner of Croatia's State



                                                       - 8 -

forests and provider of support/control functions vis-a-vis private forest owners, it is important that in the
future MAF further strengthens its policy making role by taking back responsibility for the management of
the OKFS funds (environmental funds to manage and rehabilitate non-production forests in coastal region,
currently being managed by HS). A considerable increase in human resources capacities is also needed to
carry out the Ministry's future roles and functions.

(iii) Hrvatske Sume (HS). Compared to its initial objectives, the project's impact on the institutional
development of HS is substantial. The HS restructuring plan that was prepared under the project provides
a solid base for reforming HS over the next five years. If implemented correctly, it will transform HS into
a leading and profitable European forest organization. These change processes, however, will not come
without further hard work and pro-active behavior, especially of HS's top management. Considerable
investments and additional technical assistance are necessary to implement the phased action plan and
human resources action plan. Success of this important process will depend on an enabling overall political
climate, willingness for reform inside the organization and Government, and improved public sector
governance. Privatization of non-core activities and outsourcing of forest operations will stimulate the
development of private sector activities, especially in wood harvesting and transporting operations.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Several factors outside the control of government affected project implementation. Unusually warm, dry
and windy weather increased the risk of forest fires, and in 2000 was responsible for one of Croatia's worst
fire seasons ever. These extreme weather conditions also contributed to poor survival rates of seedlings
planted under the reforestation component.

The presence of land mines, remaining from the war, also affected project implementation. Because the
project could not justify demining activities for forest land, areas that were mined were not eligible for
project activities. Mined areas also posed extreme hazards for fire-fighting (even from aerial planes).

The project was influenced by the overall post-war socio-political climate, which made decision-makers
less open to institutional changes and reform.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In 1999 and 2000, the project suffered from delays in receipt of counterpart funding. Without counterpart
funding, the PIU was unable to finalize payments for goods procured under the project. As a result,
delivery of goods, including the seaplane and fire-fighting vehicles, was delayed. This was particularly
detrimental in 2000, when Croatia suffered from numerous fires and would have benefited from the
provision of additional fire-fighting equipment.

As a positive development, the Government of Croatia adopted a strategy in 2000 to encourage the
privatization and restructuring of all state-owned enterprises, such as HS. This policy was instrumental in
providing the motivation for the project to provide assistance to HS for a restructuring study.

The decentralization of fire suppression from the Ministry of Interior to local governments was influential
in the decision to cancel the GIS and telecommunications system from the project. After decentralization,
there was a decreased capacity for coordinated fire response and poor communication between local fire
fighting authorities. The project was instrumental in reestablishing coordinating and fire management
responsibilities and to address bottlenecks.




                                                      - 9 -

During the project period, there was no clear separation within HS of commercial activities from
administration and forest service functions. The allocation of public funds to HS (through the OKFS Fund
for management of coastal forests) acts as a state subsidy, providing HS with a comfortable financial
situation. As a result, HS had less interest in reform and greater efficiency, fearing the loss of future state
transfers. In addition, change towards more transparency and openness to increased competition is often
seen as a potential threat.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There is a strong culture of forest management in Croatia that often caused resistance, especially
at the beginning of the project, to new ideas and procedures. Alternative and foreign approaches
were seen as threats to long-standing traditions, rather than opportunities for innovation and
change. In particular, HS seems to maintain a limited understanding of its role in managing a public
good, and continues to see forest resources as a private asset, rather than a public asset. HS tends to focus
on its traditional role as forest manager, rather than integrating its functions with the needs of the
community, to address concerns like forest fire prevention, forest recreation for tourism, etc.

At the local level, HS's participation in the reforestation component was initially disappointing. In the
beginning, HS did not consider alternatives to traditional reforestation techniques or calculate the financial
value of species it was using, even after seedling survival rates decreased significantly. However, local
forest staff has become increasingly aware of the benefits of these aspects and a step-by-step change of
behavior was observed.

Prior to the project, MAF had limited capacity (e.g., human resources) to guide reform processes and
oversee implementation of project activities. This lack of resources meant that MAF's capacity to manage
the reform process and develop strategies took time. While MAF's capacity to organize and lead
participatory processes and discussions on forest policy has improved significantly, MAF continues to lack
a clear role, as forest owner on behalf of state, in regulating and administrating forest activities carried out
by HS and the wood industry sector.

MoI failed to take advantage of opportunities provided by project to develop a strategic framework for fire
management in Croatia and consider options for decentralizing fire management.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was expected to cost US$67.3 million, with financing of US$42 million from the World Bank
loan, US$11.0 million from the Government, and US$14.3 million from HS. Due to the cancellation of
some activities, US$3.23 million in loan funds remained at the end of the project and had to be cancelled.
Overall, the Government of Croatia financed US$10.3 million in project activities, and HS financed
US$7.1 million. In addition, the project leveraged about US$0.25 million in funding from the WWF/World
Bank Alliance and the Dutch Partnership Trust Fund to assist Croatia to develop the National Standards
for forest management. Funding from the Dutch Partnership Trust Fund was also used to develop the
National Forest Policy and Strategy.

Care was taken during project implementation to ensure that the unit costs for forest works and
fire-fighting roads did not exceed the rates agreed upon during appraisal and justified by the economic
analysis. Proposed activities, such as demining, that exceeded agreed unit costs were not added to the
project. In general, the costs for equipment procured under the project were slightly lower than the costs
estimated at appraisal. The seaplane, which was the largest single expenditure under the project, was
estimated to cost US$26 million. The actual cost for the plane, including spare parts, was US$25 million.




                                                      - 10 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
There are concerns that some individual investments may not be sustainable. In particular, the
sustainability of nursery investments is still unclear. The nursery was originally intended to produce one
million forest seedlings per year for reforestation of coastal forests. Experience of project has shown,
however, that forests regenerate naturally better than they can be manually reforested. Moreover, HS's
plans for post-project reforestation in the coastal area are limited. It is therefore unlikely that one million
seedlings of coastal forest species will be needed. While the nursery can also provide seedlings for
reforesting inland conifer forests, the nursery will be only viable if other existing HS nurseries will be
closed down according to plan.

Overall, however, the project is considered to be sustainable for several reasons. Fire-fighting equipment
procured under the project is being fully utilized, despite concerns that local governments would have
insufficient funds to cover operation and maintenance costs. The program of forest works on private land
has raised landscape values and significantly reduced fire risk. Results from this program also indicate that
private forest owners who have participated in the program continue to maintain their areas after the
program is finished.

The most sustainable aspects of the project, however, are its institutional impacts. While new planes and
fire-trucks will equip Croatia to better fight forest fires for ten to fifteen years, investments to train
fire-fighters will improve fire management for much longer. Activities that strengthened the capacities of
MAF and HS to manage Croatia's forests in a way that is both profitable and sustainable will have long
term environmental and economic benefits if the overall climate of reforms is favorable. Much depends
also on strong and decisive leadership over the coming years. For both aspects the accession process to the
European Union will have a positive impact.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
same as Sec. 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project team strove to design a project that addressed the government's development
priorities after the war and the Bank's country assistance strategy. During preparation and appraisal, the
Bank employed top foresters and forest fire specialists to ensure that the project design was technically
sound and economically viable. Special attention was focused on ensuring that the project had a positive
environmental impact. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank had a consistently good working
relationship with the Borrower.

7.2 Supervision:
"Satisfactory. During the first two years of project implementation, the Bank's performance was
unsatisfactory. Procurement of equipment, including procurement of the seaplane, was delayed several
times, due to Bank insistence on unrealistic procurement methods given available global supplies."

Overall, however, the Bank's performance was highly satisfactory. Despite several changes in team
leaders, supervision of project implementation was continuous and responsive to the needs of the Borrower.
The Bank secured several trust funds to ensure that supervision missions included appropriate expertise,



                                                       - 11 -

including foresters, fire-fighting specialists and forest institution experts, and could provide excellent advice
on technical matters. Over the course of the project, the supervision team worked to shift the project focus
from a fairly technical design to one that addressed the changing needs of the country. In particular, the
Bank encouraged institutional reform, promoted development of sound sector policies, and encouraged
participatory processes.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation. There was excellent coordination between the project team and the country's
implementation unit.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. Following the war, the Government focused on projects that would rehabilitate areas
destroyed or damaged by fighting. Given the importance of tourism for Croatia's economy, reconstruction
of the coast and the ambient value of its coastal forests was a high priority. MoI, HS and MAF were all
cooperative and active participants during project preparation and appraisal.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. During project implementation, it became apparent that there was a broader need within the
forestry sector for policy reform and institutional strengthening. At the same time, the Government had
begun a program to restructure and privatize large state enterprises. In this context, the Government
welcomed suggestions to incorporate a restructuring study for HS into the project. The Government was
also actively involved in preparing the new Forest Policy and Strategy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of MAF was highly satisfactory. MAF provided key leadership and oversight of project
activities and was instrumental in preparation of the National Forest Policy and Strategy and National
Forest Standards. The performance of MoI was also highly satisfactory. The Ministry responded
promptly to project implementation needs and provided technical support for procurement of fire-fighting
equipment. The performance of HS was satisfactory. Local coastal HS offices successfully carried out
forest works and enthusiastically participated in the project. At headquarters, HS management was fully
committed to supporting project activities, despite occasional disagreement about Bank procedures. The
PIU was very successful in managing project activities and ensuring that procurement of equipment and
services was carried out in a timely manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

One key lesson is that, in rapidly changing, post-conflict, transitional economies, a flexible approach to
design of components is necessary. At appraisal, the forest restoration component was directed at state
forest lands. However, as the project progressed, assistance in restoring private forest lands and
characteristic Adriatic olive trees proved more successful, so the project shifted its focus to this activity
during the last few years. Similarly, the fire management component was re-oriented, with a greater focus
on community involvement and fire-resistant silvi-cultural techniques. This flexibility to change
circumstances, while maintaining consistency with project objectives, helped achieve successful outcomes.

The project was a model for the region in terms of encouraging policy reform, development of standards



                                                      - 12 -

and institutional restructuring. The participatory approach Croatia undertook to prepare its forest policy
and strategy and forest standards was a best-practice example.

The restructuring study financed under the project was strongly supported by Government, but only
halfheartedly embraced by HS. As a result, the restructuring study was less influential than it could have
been, and opportunities for the project to support implementation of the restructuring study were lost.
Future projects that support restructuring programs must have strong stakeholder agreement, especially
from the institution undergoing reform.

In order to ensure that project objectives are embraced by the implementing agency, the PIU should be fully
integrated into the agency. If possible, the PIU should be staffed with full-time workers, appointed by the
implementing agency to manage and carry out project activities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Background

The overall aim of the Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection Project was to support the
Government's post-war economic and social recovery programs in the coastal part of the country by
facilitating the rehabilitation and protection of forests which were considered key elements for encouraging
tourism and restoring economic activities along the coast. More specifically by helping develop the
institutions responsible for managing coastal forests and suppressing forest fires required for a modern
market-based economy and sustainable use of natural resources.

Specific Comments of the Borrower on Project Implementation

When evaluating the achievements of the project, it should be noted that the practical objectives of the
project were to help improve institutional set-up in order to be able to sustainable manage and protect
forest resources and contribute to restoration of tourism to its pre-war level in the coastal zone of Croatia.
From that point of view, the project has fully met its objectives.

    a) Project design

          With the help of the FAO / World Bank's team of dedicated specialists, the project was very well
          developed, clearly identifying each of the components together with the relevant budget
          components. Such approach helped, to the great extent, to understanding of the local teams
          implementing the project components, what and how needs to be done. Consequently, the
          understanding of the clearly set objectives and of the available resources, and procedures to be
          followed resulted with the project "ownership" by the implementing agencies.

    b) Project implementation

          Project teams from the Borrower's side involved in implementation in all of above mentioned
          components strictly followed the objectives set in the Project and extensively used the assistance
          provided by the dedicated team of the World Bank. This close (literary day-to-day co-operation)
          resulted in a very productive project implementation and timely closure of the loan.

          The World Bank's project support team, rendered, practically, on-line support in all on-going
          technical issues. Such support resulted in good and timely selection of appropriate and competent



                                                      - 13 -

        consultants with a rather fast turnover of major consultancy and equipment procurement contracts
        within the Bank's approval process;

        The latest Task Team Leader succeeded in obtaining additional support to the forest sector
        improvement, through Dutch trust grant funding for the development of National Forest Policy and
        Strategy that was adopted by the Government of Croatia in July 2003 and has become a principal
        document for the forest sector development in next ten years. The Dutch trust grant also funded
        the development of National Standards for Sustainable Forest Management.

        The selected Croatian Team Leaders, both from Hrvatske Sume and the Ministry of Interior, were
        competent individuals and demonstrated strong enthusiasm in project implementation;

        The Public Awareness Campaign met its primary objectives. However, it became obvious that
        forest fire issues are rather new prospective of local population thinking. Consequently, more effort
        needs to be invested in the future to further educate local populations in the coast;

        Taking the above into account, under given circumstances, it could be stated that the project was
        implemented in line with the World Bank's rules and policies, creating a solid base for further
        development of the Croatian forest sector and its contribution to development of national economy.

        During the project implementation all three project components were revised to some extent in
        order to better meet the project objectives within the changed legal, environmental and business
        environment.

        Revisions of project components allowed for initially technically oriented project to shift to more
        institutional and policy oriented project. Revisions of components are described in details in the
        Project ICR.

    c) Bank Performance

        The performance of the World Bank's team assigned to the project, can be described as highly
        cooperative and supportive. Frequent changes of task team leaders did not affect the project
        implementation as all task team leaders followed the same policy. Each member of the team
        demonstrated the sensitivity and good understanding of the Croatian specific business environment.
        It should be highlighted that they were available, practically at all times, for consultations and
        assistance in resolution of ongoing issues. The task team leaders continuously followed the work of
        the PIU which helped avoiding problems in advance.

        Probably one of the main points in the Bank's staff performance was the accessible continuity of
        the individuals assigned to the project, their cooperative attitude and their familiarity with the local
        specifics of the country.

Project Sustainability

Having reached its objectives, the project created the right framework for further development of the
Croatian forest sector.

On behalf of the Government it is well understood that additional actions need to be taken in order to justify
the current investment and to over-come the transition period. This particularly concerns the restructuring


                                                    - 14 -

of Hrvatske Sume, which now under the ruling of the Commercial Companies Law needs to transform from
the public enterprise into a competitive commercial company. This, in-itself, is an enormous challenge,
which needs to be implemented in next five years. Although being a troublesome process, it has been
already initiated by developing the restructuring plan for the strategic development of Hrvatske Sume.

It is to be mentioned that the Government fully understands the current situation and demonstrated its
continued commitment to the sustainable management of forest resource.

Future Operations

Within the action plan to raise the awareness of the local populations in the coastal areas towards forest
fires, the Government is seeking funds to implement the nation-wide awareness program estimated at US$5
million. The Government would welcome the cooperation with the World Bank in implementation of the
nation-wide awareness program through the Bank's LIL program.

Conclusions

Summarizing the above comments, the following could be said about the project:

        it is essential to have well designed Project (including estimates for each of the project
components), as a technical guideline for all parties involved;
        the understanding of the World Bank's team of the local circumstances is one of the keys to the
success of the project;
        election of appropriate individuals for heading specific project components, in the Borrower's
scope, is equally important for the success of the project;
        competent project management function (PIU) with clear mandate and responsibility. Within the
project, the PIU demonstrated to be a useful bridge between the Bank's team and the implementing
agencies. It particularly helped the project implementation in line with the World Bank's policies and
procedures;
        within its scope and objectives the project fully met its objectives, implemented with active
Borrower's support and participation in line with the World Bank's policies and procedures, within the
allocated budget and within the perceived schedule.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved landscape and environmental            Increase in landscape and environmental           Long-term impacts of reforestation expected
conditions of coastal forests.                  values in reforested areas, as measured by        to improve landscape and environmental
                                                flora/fauna count, water quality, etc.            values



Rehabilitation of forests destroyed in the war Project activities to rehabilitate coastal forests Tourism benefits from project increase. Total
increases the economic benefits from            yield a 15% rate of return.                       landscape benefits resulting from project
tourism.                                                                                          activities from 1997  2001 estimated at
                                                                                                  US$23.9 million.

Improved fire management in coastal areas       Increased detection and suppression of            Improved suppression techniques and
as a result of project activities.              forest fires using new equipment, and             shortened response time meet international
                                                improved response times.                          standards for the Mediterranean region.

                                                                                                  US$2619 of damage avoided for every
                                                                                                  hectare of forest saved from fire through
                                                                                                  prevention and suppression activities.

Improved institutional capacity to manage       HS's profitability improved.                      Restructuring plan prepared for HS to
Croatia's forest.                                                                                 increase profitability and improve efficiency.

                                                                                                  Increased capacity at MAF to manage forest
                                                                                                  policy and safeguard Croatia's forests.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
Rehabilitation of coastal forest affected by    5000 hectares of forest land rehabilitated        1,219 hectares of forest reforested
war activities and fire                         (including thinning, cleaning, and reforesting)
                                                                                                  1087 ha of natural regeneration thinned

                                                                                                  1132 ha of burnt forest land cleaned: 1085
                                                                                                  ha of abandoned private land restored
Nursery in Zadar constructed.                   Nursery constructed with annual capacity of       Nursery built and equipped with annual
                                                one million containerized seedlings               capacity of three million seedlings.
Reconstruction of the arboretum in Trsteno.     Water supply line replaced                        Water hydrant system repaired.

                                                Firebreaks reopened                               Fire-breaks re-opened.

                                                Critical machinery replaced                       Fence and aqueduct reconstructed

                                                Greenhouse rehabilitated
Roadside cleaning and pine stand thinning       560 hectares of roadside forest cleaned.          336 hectares of roadside forest cleaned
for improved forest fire prevention.
                                                1200 hectares of roadside pine forest thinned 1024 hectares of pine stands thinned
Fire-fighting roads constructed to improve fire Build 500 km of fire-fighting roads               198 km of new fire-fighting roads built
pre-suppression.
                                                                                                  431 km of existing fire-fighting roads
                                                                                                  rehabilitated


Improved detection of forest fires              Procure one seaplane, 30 fire-fighting            Procured one seaplane, 2 initial attack
                                                vehicles, and 15 sets of smoke jumping            airplanes, 30 vehicles and 15 sets of smoke
                                                equipment                                         jumping equipment

                                                Telecommunication system established.             Following feasibility study, telecommunication
                                                                                                  system cancelled
Increase capacity to combat forest fires        Telecommunication system operational.




                                                                    - 16 -

Improve regional MoI Operational Centers       Operational Centers equipped with GIS           GIS system cancelled
Test new methods to improve the efficiency     Research activities carried out to study        Research program cancelled
and technical quality of reforestation efforts efficiency and quality of reforestation efforts.
Provide technical assistance to strengthen     Establish new cost accounting system in HS. Cost accounting system established
institutions managing Croatia's forests
                                               Assist HS to develop privatization plan and
                                               address related human resource issues.          Funded study tours for senior decision
                                                                                               makers

                                                                                               Completed restructuring study for HS; plan
                                                                                               approved by Government


1End of project




                                                                 - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Coastal Forest Reconstruction                               11.90             7.23           60.72
Forest Fire Management                                      47.90           47.00            98.13
Support Services                                             7.50             1.97           26.27

Total Baseline Cost                                         67.30           56.20
                        Total Project Costs                 67.30           56.20
                  Total Financing Required                  67.30           56.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          1.80              6.50        10.90          0.00         19.20
                                  (0.70)           (3.00)      (1.80)          (0.00)       (5.50)
2. Goods                          7.90              0.00        27.00          0.00         34.90
                                  (7.70)           (0.00)      (26.60)         (0.00)       (34.30)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         5.90          0.00          5.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.20)          (0.00)       (2.20)
4. Recurrent Costs                0.00              0.00         0.00          7.30          7.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          9.70              6.50        43.80          7.30         67.30
                                  (8.40)           (3.00)      (30.60)         (0.00)       (42.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             5.86         5.94           0.00        11.80
                                  (0.00)          (2.60)       (1.76)         (0.00)       (4.36)
2. Goods                          9.05             0.00        32.70           0.00        41.75
                                  (7.09)          (0.00)      (26.24)         (0.00)       (33.33)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         1.96           0.69         2.65
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.08)         (0.00)       (1.08)
4. Recurrent Costs                0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous



                                                - 18 -

                                           0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               9.05               5.86             40.60             0.69             56.20
                                          (7.09)             (2.60)           (29.08)            (0.00)           (38.77)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Coastal Forest                 4.00         0.90         7.00        3.11         0.98       3.61       77.8     108.9     51.6
Reconstruction
Forest Fire Management        34.40         7.70         5.80       35.03         7.96       4.01       101.8    103.4     69.1
Support Services               3.60         2.40         1.50        0.63         1.34       0.00       17.5      55.8      0.0




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project Preparation

The economic analysis that was carried out during project preparation attempted to quantify the range of
benefits that would flow from the reconstruction and protection of Croatia's coastal forest. Estimates were
made of the following benefits: (a) the value of visible landscapes, (b) the existence value of regional
forests, (c) wood production, (d) hunting, and (e) erosion control.

Benefits for the projects two main components were calculated separately. For the reconstruction
component, calculations were based on detailed, site-specific information obtained for each proposed
reforestation area. The analysis estimated that the reconstruction component had a Net Present Value
(NPV) of US$2.8 million and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 24% for pre-selected sites. Criteria
were established for selection of additional reconstruction sites, to ensure that the ERR for these sites
would be at least 15%. For the forest fire management component, benefits were based on two complex
mathematical models that estimated the reduction in forest area burnt. The estimated ERR for the forest
fire management component was 13%, with a NPV of about US$7.7 million. The ERR for the whole
project was estimated at 15%. This was considered to be a conservative rate, because many benefits (e.g.,
benefits to the local population, benefits from harvesting non-timber forest products and watershed
protection benefits) could not be quantified due to lack of sufficient data.

Summary Economic Analysis

A new comprehensive economic analysis is not attempted here for three reasons. First, much of the data
needed to calculate a comprehensive economic analysis of project impacts is either unavailable or
inconsistent. Second, many of the assumptions on which the original analysis was based are no longer
valid. For example, the analysis assumes that investments in forest fire equipment would save at least
1,270 ha of forest per year. Unfortunately in 2000, Croatia suffered one of its worst fire seasons in several
decades, with over 80,000 ha of forest and agricultural land burnt. While it is certain that the equipment
purchased under the project was used extensively and was instrumental in fighting these fires, it is difficult
to estimate many hectares were saved as a result of the equipment. However it is assumed that the 1,270
ha of originally saved forests provide a low bound estimate of the forests that were saved in 2000.

Several studies were undertaken during project implementation that provide useful findings on the benefits
of project activities. A study evaluating the economic effects of project implementation arising from
ambient value of forests from 1997 - 2001 was executed by the Institute of Tourism. Additionally, a study
was executed in 2003 by Coillte to identify incentive mechanisms for improved fire prevention on private
land. This study calculated the damage to forests and agricultural land of the coastal fires that occurred in
2000.

Based on the data provided by these new studies, a summary economic analysis has been performed to
estimate the benefits of the project. To calculate the project's Economic Net Present Value (ENPV) and
Economic Rate of Return (ERR), the following benefits were estimated:

                                           Benefits                                      Assumptions

Landscape
values
  For tourists,    Landscape values result from global and local protection    Benefits for global protection




                                                     - 20 -

                activities. Global protection activities include the use of    activities begin in the second year
                seaplanes, initial attack airplanes and other fire-fighting    of the project at 25% and increase
                equipment to protect the whole coastal area from fires.        to 100% by 2001.
                Ten percent of the benefits from global protection activities
                are attributed to the project. Local protection activities     Benefits for local protection
                include thinning pine stands, cleaning forests along           activities begin in 1997 and last
                roadways, and construction and rehabilitation of fire roads.   for 10 years (assuming that after
                Of the benefits from local protection activities, 5% are       10 years, they would need to be
                attributed to the project.                                     repeated to be effective).

                Landscape values resulting from reforestation were also        Actual number of tourist
                calculated during the project. However, because the            overnights in the project area used
                methodology used for calculating the value of reforestation    for 1997  2003. The number of
                also included a program of protection for the reforested       tourist overnights in the project
                areas, only values for protection are used in this analysis to area after 2003 estimated to
                avoid the possibility of duplicating benefits.                 increase at 2% per year.

                Three different methods have been used to estimate the
                landscape value of coastal forests in view:
                       CV (Contingent Valuation) method, estimating
                USD0.97/tourist/day
                       Hedonic price method estimating
                USD1.10/tourist/day for protection
                       Interviews with hotel managers estimating
                USD1.83/tourist/day
  For the local US$22/person/year for protection                               Local population remains
  population                                                                  constant.

                                                                               Benefits for global and local
                                                                              protection activities accrue as they
                                                                              do for tourists (see above).

Reduction of
forest fires
  Avoided       US$2619/ha                                                    Area for which the damage to
  damage to                                                                   forests is estimated to be avoided is
  forests                                                                     1,270 hectares in the conservative
                                                                              estimate. The damage costs
                                                                              gradually decrease five years after
                                                                              assumed rehabilitation in 2005 and
                                                                              2006 (see below)
  Avoided       US$600/ha                                                      Area for which the damage to
  damage to                                                                    agricultural land is estimated to be
  agricultural                                                                 avoided is 1,169 hectares (92% of
  land                                                                         the area of forests).




                                                      - 21 -

  Costs of        US$1201/ha                                                   Forests estimated to be
  reforestation /                                                              rehabilitated in two years, starting
  rehabilitation                                                               in 2005.
  of burnt
  forests
  Carbon          The University of Paderborn and GFA-Terra Systems            1,270 ha of forest not burnt.
  Sequestration   calculated the benefits of improved fire management to       25.56 tons of CO2 emissions
                  keep carbon from being released in forest fires. The study   avoided per hectare, valued at
                  found that for every hectare of coastal forest that is not   US$3.5/ton starting in 2008 (the
                  burnt, 25.56 tons of CO2 emissions are avoided. The value    first year funding would be
                  of one ton CO2 is estimated to be US$3.5.                    available under the Prototype
                                                                               Carbon Fund).

Piket Nursery
  Market value    The production of forest seedlings at Piket nursery will
  of seedlings,   provide additional benefits. However, the total market
  minus           value of the seedlings could not be included in the results,
  operation and   implying a conservative calculation of the ERR.
  maintenance
  costs.

Private Land
Rehabilitation
  Increased       Project activities to rehabilitate abandoned private land
  olive           increased olive production. However, the amount of olives
  production      produced could not be quantified for this analysis, so the
                  resulting ERR is a lower bound estimate.


Benefits are estimated to accrue for 30 years from the start of the project, and a discount rate of 5% has
been applied since it is a forestry project which generally has lower accepted benchmarks. An extensive
world review of plantation and managed forest showed a FIRR of 3.22% for Birch in Finland, 3.18% for
Sitka spruce in Scotland, 2.99% for Scotch pine in Sweden and 3.88% for Douglas Fir in British Columbia
and 2.82% in Scotland. The results for the different methods chosen are shown in the following table.

Indicator                     With CV method              With HP method           Based on interviews
                                                                                   with hotel managers
Economic Rate of Return       15.75%                      16.85%                   21.48%
(ERR)
Economic Net Present          US$50,308,513               US$58,132,350            US$84,246,803
Value (ENPV)


According to the summary analysis, the project has an economic rate of return (ERR) ranging between
15.75% and 21.48%, and an economic net present value (ENPV) of US$50,308,513 to US$84,246,803
depending on the method chosen to estimate the landscape benefits. These are conservative estimates,
because they do not include all potential benefits of the project, such as increased of olive production, forest
seedling production, or environmental benefits. It also is based on a low estimate of the number of hectares
of forest saved from fire.




                                                        - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1994
              1997

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1996
              1997

 Supervision

              03/15/1997                2    TEAM LEADER, FORESTER            S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              10/11/1997                1    TEAM LEADER, FORESTER            S               S
                                             (1)
              06/27/1998                2    TEAM LEADER, FORESTER            S               S
                                             (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
              12/11/1998                3    TTL, ECONOMIST (1);              S               S
                                             PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1)
              06/26/1999                7    TTL, ECONOMIST (1);              S               S
                                             PROJECT ASSISTANT (1);
                                             FORESTRY SPECIALIST (2);
                                             FOR. INSTITUTIONS SPEC (1);
                                             FOREST FIRE SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/12/2000                4    ECONOMIST; TEAM LEADER           S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); FOREST FIRE SPEC. (1);
                                             SENIOR FORESTER (1)
              11/03/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1); LEAD            S               S
                                             FORESTRY SPEC. (1); FOR.
                                             INSTITUTIONS SPEC (1)
              06/09/2001                1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              10/12/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1); FOREST         S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONS SP (1)
              08/14/2002                1    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
              02/06/2003                2    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FORESTRY SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:




                                              - 23 -

      Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
 Identification/Preparation               54.8                         372.9
 Appraisal/Negotiation                    24.6                           74.6
 Supervision                              99.1                         503.6
 ICR                                        1.8                          58.3
 Total                                   180.3                       1,009.4
Costs include FAO and Trust Funds.




                                              - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

All supporting back-to-office reports, aide-mmoires and PSRs are on file. The following documents are
also available.

1. Evaluating Economic Effects of Project Implementation Arising from Ambient Value of Forests in the
    Period 1997-2001. Institute of Tourism. Zagreb, Croatia. March, 2002.

2. The Aesthetic and Recreational Value of Croatian Coastal Forests to the Local Population. Institute
    of Tourism. Zagreb, Croatia. June, 2001.

3. Estimation of the Ambient Value of Croatian Coastal Forests for Tourism in 2001. Institute of
    Tourism. Zagreb, Croatia. January, 2002.

4. Monitoring and Evaluating Economic Effects of Project Imlementation on Tourism in 1999. Institute
    of Tourism. Zagreb, Croatia. May, 2000.

5. Forest Related Carbon Offset Investment Opportunities in Croatia with Special Reference to the
    World Bank's Prototype Carbon Fund. University of Poderborn, GFA-Terra Systems. February,
    2002.

6. Study on Incentive Mechanisms for Improved Fire Prevention on Private Land. Prepared for the
    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Coillte. November, 2003.

7. Forest Policy and Strategy.

8. National Forests Standards.

9. Hrvatske Sume Restructuring Study. Coillte.

10. Review of the Project from the Borrower's Perspective. Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
    Zagreb, Croatia. November, 2003.

11. Summary Economic Analysis: Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return Calculations. World
    Bank. November, 2003.




                                                  - 27 -

- 28 -

