FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 170-BR
APPRAISAL OF
AN AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
BRAZIL
June 1, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Latin America & Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
November           April
1972             1973
US$ 1             =   Cr$ 6.06        Cr$ 5.995
Cr$ 1             =   US$ o.l65        US$ 0.167
Cr$ 1 million    =   US$ 165,016      US$ 166,806
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)                  =  10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2        =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kmi)        =  0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                 =  2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                     =  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton (ton)  -  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BADEP    - State Development Bank of Parana
BUDESP   - State Development Bank of S^ao Paulo
BANDES - State Development Bank of Espirito Santo
BB       - Bank of Brazil
BC       - Central Bank
BDMG     - State Development Bank of Minas Gerais
3NCC     - National Cooperative Credit Bank
BNDE     - National Bank for Economic Development
BRDE     - Regional Development Bank for the Extreme South
DIPOA    - Inspection Division for Products of Animal Origin,
Ministry of Agriculture
ES       - State of Espirito Santo.
FINAME   - Special Industrial Financing Agency of BNDE
F-iN&P    - Fund for Studies and Project Planning of the
Ministry of Planning
FIPEME   - Fund for the Development of Small and Medium
Industry of BNDE
FUNAGRI  - General Fund for Agriculture and Industry of the
Central Bank
GB       - State of Guanabara
GO       - State of Goias
ICM      - Tax on Distribution of Merchandise
IDB      - Inter-American Development Bank
IPI      - Tax on Industrial Production
MG       - State of Minas Gerais
MT       - State of Mato Grosso
ORTN     - National Treasury Bond
PB       - Participating Bank
PR       - State of Parana
PT       - Project Team of Central Bank
RJ       - State of Rio de Janeiro
RS       - State of Rio Grande do Sul
SC       - State of Santa Catarina
SP       - State of Sao Paulo
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..         .......................   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION          ....................................     1
II.   GENERAL ECONOMY AND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .........    1
III.   PROJECT BACKGROUND ......... . . .  ................  ........... .    3
A.   Project Area .......................... . .. . ..*.*.*.**.......   3
B.   Production of Project Commodities .... ......    3
C.   Government Policies Pertaining to
Project Industries            ....................    5
D.   Project Food and Feed Processing Industries.    6
E.    Sources and Availability of Funds ....         ......    9
IV.   THE PROJECT .......................................            9
A.   General Description ........................    9
B.   Detailed Features .............. .............   10
C.   Cost Estimates ...... .     .0.......   # ..........................   12
D.   Financing ..........         .........................   13
E.   Procurement .....         ...........................    14
F.   Disbursement ...... .. . . . .  ......................... .   14
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....................   15
A.   Project Administration .....           ................   15
B.   Participating Banks             ........................   15
C.   Project Fund and Project Account ........ ...   18
D.   Lending Policies and Procedures ..........        ..   18
E.   Accounts and Auditing ...................        ...   19
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND OPERATING
RESULTS  .      ........................                     20
A.   Production .. .... . ............. .                    20
B.  Marketing ......                     ........  21
C. Prices .............. 21
D.   Operating Results ........................ .            22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team which visited
Brazil in November/December 1972. The team was composed of Messrs. T. Davis,
C. Cronberg, G. Luhman, D. Steel, and J. Zarandin (Bank); and D. Evans,
R. Somers, and A. Weinstock (consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS - Continued
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................      23
VIII.   AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMMAENDATION...........     25
SCHEDULE A
ANNEXES
1.  General Economy and Agricultural Sector
2.   Beef Processing
3.   Oilseed Processing
4.   Milk Processing
5.   Miscellaneous Food and Feed PrQcessing
6.   Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
7.   Project Cost Phasing
8.   Project Cash Flow
9.   Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
10.   Economic Justification
MAP S
Location of Livestock Project Areas IBRD 10335
Density of Cattle Population, 1972 and Investments in Beef
Processing Plants IBRD 10336
Corn and Wheat/Soybean Distributing and Investments in Oilseed
and Milk Processing Plants IBRD 10386.



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to modernize and expand agro-
industries in Brazil's Center-South zone so that they can help meet rapidly
growing domestic and export market demands for processed food and feed pro-
ducts. Brazil seeks to expand and diversify exports in order to alleviate
the balance of payments constraint to economic growth. The project would
be part of the on-going export corridors program which aims at increasing
exports, especially of agricultural products, through the development of
five transportation corridors. The Grain Storage Project (857-BR, US$30
million, 1972) already contributes to this program, and a second agro-
industries project, directed toward the special problems of the Northeast,
is being prepared by the Government for possible Bank financing.
ii.       The Brazilian economy has expanded rapidly in recent years, averag-
ing 8.6% per year over the period 1966-71, although agriculture at 6.0% per
year grew more slowly than industry at 9.8% per year. Exports of the princi-
pal agricultural commodities almost doubled between 1962 and 1971, and the
expansion of non-traditional agricultural exports was particularly impres-
sive, rising from 11% of total agricultural exports in 1962 to 44% in 1971.
The food and feed processing sector has not kept pace with the growth in
agricultural output, but the proposed project would help increase the pro-
cessing capacity for some of the non-traditional agricultural exports and
reduce the import requirement for milk products.
iii.      Brazil's beef policy is aimed at achieving a target of 500,000
tons of beef exports by the end of the decade while avoiding precipitous
increases in the domestic price for beef. The latter is substantially
below the world market price at present, but the Government has expressed
its intention to permit the gradual rise of the domestic price until it
reaches the world market level. By letting the domestic price rise, by
encouraging the production of beef through various programs, and by stimu-
lating the production of substitute goods, the Government expects to offset
the effects of rising income, maintain per capita consumption of beef at
approximately the current level, and achieve the export target.
iv.       Over three years, the project would assist in financing investments
in beef processing (US$108 million), oilseed processing (US$8 million), milk
processing (US$10 million), and miscellaneous export-oriented food and feed
processing (US$9 million) for a total project cost of US$135 million. The
foreign exchange component would be about 16%. Sub-borrowers would finance
about 20% of total cost, the Government 40%, and the proposed Bank loan of
US$54 million, the remaining 40%. This would entail local expenditure financ-
ing of about US$33 million.
v.        The Bank loan would be made to the Government, which would make the
proceeds, plus its own contribution, available to the Central Bank (BC) for
channeling to six participating banks (PBs). The PBs, in turn, would onlend



- ii. -
to qualified sub-borrowers for periods of up to 10 years, including a maximum
of two years' grace, at an interest rate of 5%, plus full indexing.
vi.       Sub-loans would be made primarily to existing enterprises for ex-
pansion or for rehabilitation of facilities to enable them to adopt new tech-
nology and/or to meet new sanitary standards (beef processing). Total capacity
of project enterprises would be about 22,000 head/day of cattle, 1,200 tons/day
of oilseeds (principally soybeans), 500,000 1/day of milk, and several hundred
tons per day of other commodities such as fruits and grains.
vii.      BC would be responsible for overall execution of the project and
would establish a Project Team to administer day-to-day operations and review
the work of the PBs.  The PBs would appraise sub-projects according to criteria
set forth in subsidiary loan agreements to be signed with BC and would submit
their appraisals to BC for review. BC would set sub-loan approval limits for
the PBs as it deemed appropriate. After sub-loans were made, PBs would super-
vise progress of each sub-borrower in implementing his plan. The PBs are
financially sound, have competent management and staff, and are fully capable
of undertaking the appraisal and supervision of sub-projects.
viii.     Procurement would be undertaken according to the requirements of
the particular enterprise involved, as decided by the enterprise and the
participating bank. At least three quotations would be obtained by sub-bor-
rowers from contractors or manufacturers and submitted to the PBs for review.
Brazilian contractors and manufacturers of the types of facilities to be uti-
lized in the project have costs comparable to international firms and have
demonstrated an ability to compete for international contracts. Most major
foreign firms are represented in Brazil through affiliates or sales agents.
ix.       Financial rates of return, ranging from 13% to 24%, would provide
incentives adequate to induce investors to participate in the project. The
economic rate of return of the project would be about 53% for beef process-
ing, 23% for oilseed processing, and 48% for milk processing. The project
would also contribute to employment through the creation of jobs during the
implementation period as well as in the operational phase.
x.        With appropriate assurances, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$54 million for a term of 15 years, including a grace period of
five years. The Government of Brazil would be the borrower and would assume
the foreign exchange risk.



BRAZIL
0                                 AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested an IBRD loan of US$54 million
to assist the development of agro-industries in the 10 central and southern
states of the country. The proposed project would be part of Brazil's on-going
export corridors program which seeks to increase exports, especially of agri-
cultural products, through the development of five transportation corridors,
four in the central and southern states and one in the Northeast. The Grain
Storage Project (857-BR, US$30 million, 1972) also contributes to the program.
In addition to 857-BR, Bank lending for Brazil's agricultural sector consists
of two loans for livestock development (516-BR, US$40 million, 1967; and 868-BR,
US$26 million, 1972), and a loan for agricultural settlement in the nottheast
area (853-BR, US$6.7 million, 1972). A second agro-industries project, which
will be designed to provide an expanded market for the agricultural products
of the Northeast, is being prepared by the Government. Also being prepared
is a third livestock development project, designed to ensure the continuity
of the program to modernize and expand livestock production in the Center-
South, and to extend that program to smaller farmers.
1.02      The proposed agro-industries project was prepared by the Central
Bank (BC) in 1972 with the assistance of consultants and on the basis of re-
commendations made by a Bank team which visited Brazil early in 1972.  This
appraisal report is based on the findings of an appraisal team, composed of
Messrs. T. Davis, C. Cronberg, G. Luhman, D. Steel, and J. Zarandin (Bank)
and D. Evans, R. Somers and A. Weinstock (consultants), which visited Brazil
in November/December 1972.
II. GENERAL ECONOMY AND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
2.01      The Brazilian economy has grown at a remarkable rate in recent years.
In the 1966-71 period, the GDP showed an annual growth rate of 8.6%; industry,
9.8%; and agriculture, 6.0% (Annex 1). Average per capita income increased
at about 5.4% in this period, and passed the US$400 level in 1971, in spite
of a population growth rate of about 3% a year (population reached 94.5 millioni
in 1970 and was around 100 million in 1972). Some 56% of the people live in
cities and towns, and migration from rural areas has reduced the rate of growth
of the rural population to less than 1% a year.
2.02      Although its absolute contribution to GDP continues to increase
rapidly, agriculture now accounts for only one-fifth of GDP, as compared to
one-third in the late 1940s. Bringing new land into production accounts for
much of the growth in agriculture. Very substantial increases in acreage of
major crops took place in the 1965-71 period: beans, manioc, corn, and peanuts,
between 14 and 24%; oranges, 44%; wheat, nearly 200%; and soybeans, almost 270%.



- 2 -
In contrast, coffee, long the major foreign exchange earner for Brazil, fell
in acreage to 2.59 million ha in 1971, a 26% decline from 1965. However,
yields increased sharply in this period, and production is back at the same
level as in 1965.
2.03      The dynamism of the agricultural sector has not been limited to
production.  Exports of the principal agricultural commodities almost doubled
in the 1962-71 period, and reached over US$1.74 billion in 1971, equivalent
to about 61% of all merchandise exports. The performance of non-traditional
agricultural exports has been particularly impressive:
Exports
1965           1971         Increase 1965-71
----US$ million----               %---%…
Beef (Fresh)              24              99                300
Beef (Processed)          12              51                325
Soybean Meal               7              78              1,000
Corn                      28              75                170
Orange Juice               2              36              1,700
Soybeans                   7              24               240
This rapid expansion of non-traditional agricultural exports was sufficient
to increase their contribution to total agricultural exports from 11% in 1962
to 44% in 1971, in rDite of a continuing growth (3.6% per year) in traditional
agricultural exports (coffee, cotton, sugar, cocoa, and tobacco).
2.04      Although milk production has not grown as rapidly as production
of other agricultural commodities, it rose about 38% from 1965 to 1970.  Im-
ports of milk products have varied considerably from year to year but reached
a level of 23,000 tons of milk equivalent in 1970 and are projected by FAO
to increase substantially by the end of the decade.
2.05      Growth of the food and feed processing sector has not kept pace
with the growth in output and exports of non-traditional products (in terms
of value added, the sector expanded at a rate of 3.6% in the 1966-71 period).
The proposed project would help to increase processing capacity for some of
the key items on the non-traditional export list for which both export and
domestic demand is expected to grow rapidly--especially beef and soybean meal--
and would help to reduce the import requirement for milk.
2.06      As a complement to this project, the Government has engaged consul-
tants to prepare a development project for agro-industries in the Northeast
which is expected to be completed by mid-1973. In spite of heavy migration
from the Northeast, and a substantial transfer of resources from Brazil's
Center-South region to the Northeast in recent years, the area continues to
lag behind the rest of Brazil in its rate of economic growth. Severe social
problems persist there, and average per capita income of its 29 million people
is estimated to be about one-half of the national average. The Northeast
project now being prepared will involve both on-farm development and product



-3-
processing, as the present agricultural production base in the Northeast is
not sufficient to support processing industries of significant scale.
III. PROJECr BACKGROUND
A. Proiect Area
3.01      The project would be located in the 10 states of Brazil's relatively
well developed Center-South T/'where about 78% of Brazil's beef, all of its
soya, about 80% of its milk, and 85% of its fruit for juice, is produced.
(Maps 10335, 10336, and 10386). Beef production occurs throughout the region,
with the greatest concentration in Rio Grande do Sul, the southernmost state
of Brazil. Soya production is concentrated in the southern half of the region,
while milk production is centered in its northern part and fruit juice pro-
duction is mainly in Sao Paulo. Climate in the area ii-mo4erate and rainfall
is relatively high, averaging -betwe-nft-1^2-00--and 2,000, mm pei year, with a rainy
seasoin in the suoir (December to April). Soils, farm sizes and types, and
vast land resources are suitable for production purposes. The processing
industries are expanding and undergoing rapid modernization, particularly in
the beef and soya processing sectors.
3.02      Compared with the other regions of Brazil, the Center-South has a
relatively well developed transport system. Major highways have been rapidly
expanded and improved in recent years and work is being continued under a
mater plan, partly assisted by the Bank. The rural road system is also re-
ceiving increased attention. A program to develop 10,000 km of rural roads
has begun recently and will be especially beneficial to the state of Rio
Grande do Sul. The railroad system is being upgraded with new line construc-
tion, rolling stock improvements, and line integration. Major port improve-
ment programs are now underway in Victoria (ES), Santos (SP), and Rio Grande
(RS). The objectives of the latter are to improve road and rail access,
deepen harbors, and greatly enlarge cold and dry storage facilities and load-
ing equipment.
B. Production of Project Commodities
Beef Production
3.03      Brazil's cattle herd, estimated at 84.8 million head in 1971, is
the world's third largest.  Almost 50% are identified as beef cattle, with
another 35% as mixed beef-dairy and the remaining 15% as mainly dairy.
Average annual growth rates of the herd, based on census data, were 1.8%
for 1950-60 and 3.9% for 1960-70.
1/   Rio Grande do Sul (RS); Guanabara (GB); Santa Catarina (SC); Parana (PR);
Sao Paulo (SP); Rio de Janeiro (RJ); Espirito Santo (ES); Minas Gerais
(MG); Goias (GO), including the Federal District; and Mato Grosso (MT).



-4
3.04      The average annual growth rate of beef production between 1952-54
and 1967-69 was about 3.6%, while average yield, expressed in carcass weight
per head, increased during this period from 161 kg to 193 kg. While world
imports of beef rose from about 1.94 million tons in 1965/66 to 2.61 million
tons in 1970/71, an annual increase of about 6%, Brazil's exports jumped
from 30,000 tons in 1966 to 174,000 tons in 1972, an increase of about 34%
per year. Annex 2 presents data on beef production, including pertinent
classifications and detailed discussion on Brazil's livestock and meat pro-
cessing sector.
Oilseed Production
3.05      The principal project-related oilseeds are soybean, cottonseed,
and peanut, and, to a limited extent, castor seed. Their processing results
in basically two important groups of products, namely, vegetable oil and
oilcakes and meals. Soybean is the most important of these oilseeds (Annex 3)
and will probably increase in importance in future years. Between 1958-60
and 1969-71, annual soybean output grew at a rate of about 22% per year, while
the annual outputs of cottonseed, castor beans, and peanuts increased at rates
varying from 4 to 8% per year. The latest estimate of the 1971/72 soybean
crop indicates a record harvest of about 3.4 million tons and it is expected
to be exceeded by a 1972/73 harvest of 4.2 million tons, mainly as a result
of rapid expansion of area planted. In the case of soybean oil and cake/
meal, the annual growth rate during the period 1958-60 to 1969-71 was about
14%, and those for cottonseed, castor bean, and peanut oil and cake/meal
ranged from 5 to 8% (Annex 3).
Milk Production
3.06      The main products of the milk processing industry in Brazil are
pasteurized fresh milk, butter, cheese, powdered milk, and condensed milk.
While the production of raw milk increased at an annual rate of about 4%
between 1958-60 and 1968-70, output of pasteurized milk and powdered milk
grew more rapidly, at about 11% and 9% per year, respectively. 1/ Output
of cheese and condensed milk grew more slowly during the period, while butter
production declined somewhat (Annex 4).
Miscellaneous Food and Feed Production
3.07      A number of commodities offer good prospects for export in processed
form, among them citrus fruit and manioc (Annex 5). Annual output of citrus
fruit and manioc increased at a rate of about 6% per year between 1958-60 and
1968-70.
1/   The growth rate for pasteurized milk is for the period 1958-60 to 1969-71.
The figures anid trc..ds for processed products are based on information
from the Inspection Division for Products of Animal Origin.



- 5 -
C.  Government Policies Pertaining to Project Industries
Beef
3.08      Brazil's aims to export 500,000 tons of beef annually by 1980 with-
out causing precipitous increases in its domestic price, which was only about
60% of the corresponding FOB export price in 1972 (Annex 2). To help attain
this export target, the Government intends to strengthen the production pro-
gram for beef through such measures as aftosa 1/ control, improve pastures,
and better breed selqction, while allowing only gradual increases in
the real domestic price of beef.  In addition, it plans to encourage
pork and poultry production to meet much of the incremental demand for
meats resulting from rising per-capita income. However, raising beef,
pork and poultry output takes time and measures promoting such increases
cannot have a substantial impact in the immediate future. As an interim
policy, therefore, the Government has adopted a series of temporary measures
to hold beef exports to levels consistent with gradual increases in the
domestic beef price.
3.09      Among the measures adopted are export quotas, an export tax, maximum
domestic prices to processors and to farmers, and a beef storage requirement
tied to exported quantities (designed to even out seasonal fluctuations in
supply for the domestic market). The maximum prices are set by informal Gov-
ernment agreements with farmers, processors and the retail trade, and enforc-
ed by an inspection system, care being taken to allow adequate returns to
farmers and processors (para. 4.04 and Annex 2).  Eventually, as the domestic
price of beef gradually rises to a level consistent with its FOB export price,
there would be no more need for these measures.
3.10      The Government attaches great importance to the domestic price of
beef because beef is an important item in the general price index. A primary
national goal is to hold domestic price inflation in 1973 to not more than 12%,
which would be the lowest in well over a decade. As general inflationary forces
are dampened, however, gradual real increases in the price of beef will become
less important. As a result, the domestic price of beef can rise to a level
consistent with its FOB export price and, with vigorous implementation of the
meat production program, enable Brazil to reach its beef export target of
500,000 tons annually by 1980 without any perceptible impact on general price
level movements.
3.11      Another element in the Government's policy is its drive to raise the
hygiene standards of meat processing plants (Annex 2). New federal sanitary
regulations were established at the end of 1971 and are being applied to all
plants on a state-by-state basis, starting in the South, by the Inspection
Division for Products of Animal Origin (DIPOA) of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Plants which cannot comply with the standards are closed and those which re-
quire modifications are given stipulated periods of time within which to com-
ply. All plans for construction or modification must be approved by DIPOA,
and DIPOA also issues export licenses when plants meet the hygiene requirements
of importing countries (para. 3.17).
1/ Foot-and-mouth disease.



-6-
Oilseeds
3.12      The price support program for soybeans, the primary oilseed to be
processed under the project, is part of the general agricultural price support
program which includes all grains except wheat, for which there is a separate
program (Annex 3). The program consists of two elements: purchase of com-
modities at the minimum price and short-term financing. No soybeans have been
purchased, since the market price has remained high, but producers have made
substantial use of the short-term financing facility, which has stimulated
the production of soybeans.
3.13      In response to a slump in sales of vegetable oil in 1966-68, the
Government discouraged the expansion of oilseed processing capacity (Annex 3).
In recent years, however, production of soybean products, in particular, has
grown rapidly as a result of the strong increase in the demand for meal. As
a result, the Government has relaxed its restrictions (mainly on the provision
of long-term financing), and capacity has expanded substantially over the past
two years.
Milk
3.14      The Government intends to reduce imports of milk by stimulating
production through the establishment of milk basins (Map 10386) and the
provision of additional technical and financial assistance (Annex 4). The
price-support prograr, which sets minimum prices for Type C milk to producers,
seeks to encourage production and reduce seasonal fluctuations in supply, while
the controlled wholesale price to processors of Type C milk is intended to
keep the consumer price low. Since prices for other types of milk and milk
products are not controlled, however, average margins to processors are ade-
quate. Although all milk processing plants are subject to inspection by
DIPOA, the agency only inspects perhaps half of the plants now operating.
Plans for construction or modification of plants are to be submitted to
DIPOA for approval.
Miscellaneous
3.15      All grains except wheat (for which there is a separate program)
are included in the general agricultural price support program (para 3.12).
There are no similar programs for citrus fruits.
D. Project Food and Feed Processing Industries
lieef Processing
1.16      Prior to implementation of the new sanitary regulations, the beef
processing industry consisted of perhaps 2,000 units, of which over 80% had a
capacity of less than 50 head/day, somewhat more than 10% had 50-200 head/day,



-9-
demand for processed products based on these commodities. Furthermore, agro-
industry in Brazil is following the trend in the U.S. and Europe toward more
specialized firms. The level of tethnology in Brazil generally is on a par
with that in other major producing countries, and the country has a large
supply of labor with relatively low wages. Products such as fruit juice and
feed meal have good prospects.  Brazil now has about one-third of the total
world market for concentrated orange juice, and its share continues to in-
crease. Demand for meal is also growing, the product being used as supple-
mental feed for livestock, especially poultry and pigs. The investment needs
are substantial and increasing as a result of the growth and diversification
of the industries. (See Annex 5.)
E. Sources and Availability of Funds
3.27      As is the case for most other small- and medium-sized industries in
Brazil, agro-industries must rely heavily on internally generated funds to
meet their needs. Short-term financing of working capital is available from
commercial banks at a real interest rate of about 9% (the Bank of Brazil
charges a nominal rate of around 19%, or a real rate of about 3-1/2% 1/).
For export firms, there is also short-term financing of export production
from Government funds available through commercial banks at a real interest
rate of about -6%. Cooperatives have access to some credit (largely short
term) from the National Cooperative Credit Bank (BNCC). Remaining short-term
needs are met by the firms themselves.
3.28      The real pinch is in long-term credit.  There is some medium- and
long-term financing of construction and equipment available (primarily through
the state development banks) from funds administered principally by BC and
the National Bank for Economic Development (BNDE) at real interest rates rang-
ing generally from 4 to 8%. BNCC also makes a small amount of longer term
credit available to cooperatives. These funds are extremely limited, however,
and most firms must supply virtually all of their long-term funds from internal
sources or from the rollover of short-term financing. In many cases, invest-
ments have been postponed or simply not undertaken because of the lack of
funds. A discussion of the existing institutional and credit framework is
given in Annex 6.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Definition
4.01      The project would be part of the lending programs of five state
development banks and the Bank of Brazil in the 10 central and southern states
1/   Taking the rate of inflation at 15%, the rate in 1972.



- 10 -
of Brazil to further the growth of exports of processed agricultural products
and reduce imports of milk products. Over a period of three years, it would
help finance rehabilitation and new construction of processing facilities for
beef (80% of total investments), oilseed (6%), milk (7%), and miscellaneous
xport-oriented food and feed products (7%). It would also include elements
for training of technicians in the sub-projects.
Lending Program
4.02      Total estimated cost of the project is Cr$818 million (US$135 mil-
lion), of which Cr$654 million (US$108 million) would be financed by loans
from the participating banks (PBs) and Cr$164 million (US$27 million) would
be provided by sub-borrowers. The Bank's contribution would be US$54 million.
The number and size of sub-loans under each component would vary considerably
according to the types of investments involved. The cost phasing is shown
in Annex 7 and commitment of sub-loans is indicated below;
Processing           Commitment of Sub-Loans (Number)        Average Amount
ITndustry           Year 1 Year 2 Year 3   Total  Cr$ million US$ million
Beef                   30      30        15        75      8.7           1.4
Oilseed                 1       2         1         4     12.1           2.0
iMilk                   2       5         3        10      6.1           1.0
Miscellaneous
food and feed          1       3         3        7       7.8           1.3
B. Detailed Features
Beef Processing
4.03      Substantial investments in beef processing facilities are required
to enable processors to meet new federal sanitary regulations and hygiene re-
quirements of importing countries (para. 3.11) and to supply more fully pro-
cessed products to the international market. Investments under the project
would be made in some 75 plants located throughout the 10 central and southern
states, although higher concentrations would be found in Rio Grande do Sul,
Sao Paulo, and Minas Gerais. Most work would involve the rehabilitation of
existing facilities, but a few new plants would also be constructed. Reha-
bilitation would range from an expansion of cold storage capacity to more
extensive improvements involving combinations of processing, refrigeration,
and cold storage facilities. Cold storage facilities intended for beef would
be financed even if they were built and operated by firms which are not pro-
cessors. Capacities of project plants would range from about 200 to 800
head/day. Investments would also be made in about 20 refrigerated trucks,
which would be purchased by meat processors or independent firms that provid-
ed refrigerated transport services to the beef processing industry. The form



-~~~~~~~-1
which this component takes and its success, depend upon the behavior of in-
dividuals and groups acting independently. They are considered to have suf-
ficient managerial capability, command adequate technical know-how, and possess
sufficient knowledge of the industry and its supply and demand characteristics
to enable them to make and implement appropriate decisions.  This judgment
also applies to the other components of the project.
4.04      During negotiations, the Government assured the Bank that it would
let the domestic beef prices rise gradually to world market level and that,
in any case, it intends to maintain the domestic price at a level which would
provide adequate returns to producers and processors (para. 3.09). Since the
aftosa control program (para. 3.08) is important to the adequate supply of
cattle for project plants, the program should be initiated in the States of
Goias and Mato Grosso during 1974 and expanded to include a larger percentage
of the herd in project areas where it already has been started. It is also
essential that the plan for implementation of the hygiene regulations be car-
ried cut. In order to enable DIPOA to do this, the Government will strengthen
the DIPOA staff by retaining competent and experienced personnel in sufficient
numbers. Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations. That the
beef export regulations, which are currently out of date, had been updated
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and assurances
were obtained that the regulations would continue to be updated thereafter.
Oilseed Processing
4.05      The major part of the loan would be for modernizing old crushing
units, converting them into efficient working units of medium size with solvent
extraction. Some cottonseed and peanuts would be processed but soybeans would
be the primary raw material. Capacity of remodelled facilities would range
from about 250 tons/day to about 700 tons/day, so that advanced processing
techniques, utilizing solvents, could be used and efficient levels of produc-
tion achieved. Use of solvents would permit an increase in the amount of oil
extracted from 13% to 16.5%. Approximately four sub-projects are expected
to be financed in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, and Minas Gerais
(Map 10386). Except in special cases where factors such as location war-
ranted, no refining facilities would be financed, because existing capacity
is probably adequate for the next few years (para. 3.22).
Milk Processing
4.06      About 10 milk processing sub-projects are expected to be financed
under the project, the majority to be situated in the states of Minas Gerais
and Sao Paulo (para. 3.24 and Map 10386). Plant capacity would range from
about 30,000 liters/day (raw material) to about 100,000 liters/day. Since
the demand for milk products is growing rapidly, many of the sub-projects
would involve completely new plants, although several existing plants would
be rehabilitated. A special feature of the sub-projects would be the emphasis
on more highly processed products such as powdered milk and cheese. In the



-12-
analysis of sub-projects, particular attention would be given to the adequacy
of the milk supply for existing and proposed facilities. Partly as a result
of the current emphasis on the beef industry, inspection of milk plants is not
as widespread or thorough as would be desirable, and an assurance was obtained
at negotiations that the sanitary regulations regarding milk processing would
be strictly applied to plants included in the project.
Miscellaneous Food and Feed Processing
4.07      Sub-projects under this category would cover a range of export-
oriented food and feed processing facilities, an example being the production
of frozen fruit juice concentrates. In most cases, the establishment of a
new plant would be required, the majority to be located in the states of
Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Espirito Santo. About seven sub-projects would
be financed.
C. Cost Estimates
4.08      The total project cost is estimated at US$135 million (Cr$818 mil-
lion), of which US$21.4 million (Cr$130 million), or 16%, represents foreign
exchange requirements. Estimated project costs are given below and the phasing
is indicated in Annex 7.
Cr$ million       US$ million        % Foreign
Category                      Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
1.  Beef Processing           463.0   77.9  540.9  76.4   12.9   89.3    14
2.  Oilseed Processing         33.2    6.9   40.1   5.5    1.1    6.6    17
3.  Milk Processing            39.5   10.6   50.1   6.5    1.7    8.2    21
4.  Miscellaneous              33.4   11.7   45.1   5.5    1.9    7.4    26
Sub-total           569.1  107.1  676.2  93.9   17.6  111.5    16
Physical Contingency (10%)    56.9   10.7   67.6   9.4    1.8   11.2    16
Sub-total           626.0  117.8  743.8 103.3   19.4  122.7    16
-rice Contingency (10%)        62.6   11.7   74.3  10.3    2.0   12.3    16
Total Project Cost       688.6  129.5  818.1 113.6   21.4  135.0    16
_ _~



- 13 -
4.09      The estimates are based on November 1972 domestic prices and are
converted at the exchange rate existing at that time. 1/ A physical contingency
of 10% and a price contingency of 10% are included, the latter to cover possi-
ble real price increases in dollar terms of about 5% per year over the three-
year project period. Project costs are based on those for similar facilities
recently financed by the PBs and data received from Brazilian manufacturers
and consulting firms.
D. Financing
4.10      The project would be financed as follows:
Sub-borrowers         Government            Bank
Category       US$ M  % of Total    US$ M  % of Total US$ M  % of Total  Total
1. Beef Pro-
cessing   21.6        20        43.2        40     43.2        40       108.0
2. Oilseed
Proces-
sing       1.6        20          3.2       40       3.2       40         8.0
3. Milk Pro-
cessing    2.0        20          4.0       40       4.0       40        10.0
4. Miscella-
neous      1.8        20          3.6       40       3.6       40         9.0
Total Proj-
ect Cost  27.0        20         54.0       40      54.0       40       135.0
0            4.11      The Bank loan of US$54 million would finance about 40% of total
project cost, including the estimated foreign exchange cost of about US$21
million and about US$33 million of local cost. The Government would contri-
bute 40% and the balance would be provided by sub-borrower from their own
resources, or additional debt financing from non project funds. PBs would,
however, require sub-borrowers to have prudent debt/equity ratios (Schedule
A).
4.12      The Bank loan, to be disbursed over five years, would be made to
Government which would bear the foreign exchange risk. Government, through
BC, would onlend to the PBs under subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to
the Bank specifying the types of sub-projects eligible for financing, the
percentage to be financed, the rate of interest, maturity dates, methods of
repayment and procurement, and the auditing of accounts. The signing of at
least one subsidiary loan agreement, incorporating the provisions of Schedule
A, would be a condition of effectiveness.
1/   When the US dollar was recently devalued, the cruzeiro was also adjusted.
The net result was a revaluation of the cruzeiro relative to the dollar
by about 3%. Since the foreign exchange component of the project is
approximately 16%, the change in total project cost as a result of the
currency adjustment would be less than 1%. This amount is lower than
any reasonable margin of error in the cost estimates and therefore the
estitates were left unchanged.



- 14 -
4.13      Loans to sub-borrowers would have terms of up to 10 years, and,
with loans commencing in three successive years, the last repayments would
be made 13 years after the start of the project. The cash flow projection
for BC indicates that sub-borrowers' debt service payments (at an interest
rate of 5% with full indexing) would generate a sufficient inflow to repay
the Bank loan within 15 years, including five years' grace and to cover a
reasonable degree of slippage in payments (Annex 8).
E. Procurement
4.14      Procurement procedures would vary from case to case and would be
decided upon by the sub-borrowers, with the concurrence of the PBs, thus
following the pattern of Bank loans to development finance companies. The
PBs presently review the procurement decisions of their clients, but, in
order to promote uniformity of approach, PBs would require that sub-borrowers
under the project obtain quotations from at least three contractors or sup-
pliers and submit them to the PBs for review (Schedule A).
4.15      Brazil produces a wide range of equipment to be utilized in the
project and its firms have sufficient capacity to supply the goods and ser-
vices required. Although import duties on this equipment vary from about
30% to 50% (there arc no quantitative restrictions), competitive conditions
in the country are such that production costs of domestic equipment are com-
parable to the CIF cost of equipment provided by foreign suppliers.  Brazilian          0
contractors and manufacturers have demonstrated an ability to compete for
the types of facilities to be utilized in the project at costs competitive
with international firms. If a particular item is not produced in Brazil,
the law permits an exemption from import duties. Foreign firms are widely
represented by domestic affiliates, which would be expected to bid for
project contracts.
F. Disbursement
4.16      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 50% of BC re-
financing of sub-loans disbursed by PBs to sub-borrowers. A condition of
disbursement, in the case of each PB, would be the signing of a subsidiary
loan agreement between BC and that PB. PBs generally disburse directly to
suppliers, except in special circumstances, but this procedure would be
made a requirement under the project to ensure uniformity (Schedule A). All
?Bs make disbursements in installments and ensure that implementation of
eachi stage has been completed and that acquisitions correspond to disburse-
ments before releasing the next installment.
4.i7      Disbursement requests to the Bank would be accompanied by state-
ments of expenditures certified by BC. The supporting documentation would
.



- 15 -
be retained by the PBs for review by the Bank during supervision.  The PBs'
disbursement to sub-borrowers would take about 4-1/2 years and disbursement
of the Bank loan is expected to take five years. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is given in Annex 9.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Administration
5.01      BC would administer the project and, in order to perform its func-
tions, would establish a Project Team (PT) which would review appraisals of
sub-projects submitted to it by the PBs, supervise the operations of the PBs
relating to the project, and carry out the other duties of BC under the proj-
ect. PT would be headed by a Project Coordinator and would include in its
initial staff (a) a financial analyst, (b) an economist, (c) a veterinarian,
and (d) a processing engineer with extensive experience in beef processing.
The qualifications and the terms of reference for these personnel, including
any replacements, would be subject to consultation between BC and the Bank.
That the PT had been so established and staffed would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. To supplement PT staff, consultants would be retained per- V
iodically as needed to review the technical viability of sub-projects. As-
surances on the above were obtained during negotiations.
5.02      PT would conduct a continuing review of the industries included in
the project in order to ascertain whether capacity increases to be financed
were compatible with overall supply and demand, taking into account expansion
of facilities outside the project.  The review would complement those on a
state and regional basis to be undertaken by the PBs.  PT would also keep
abreast of technological advances of project industries to enable it to judge
the technical viability of proposed sub-projects and would collect data to
determine the financial and economic benefits resulting from the project and
to form the basis for further investment in agro-industries. As part of its
supervisory function, PT staff would make periodic visits to PBs to review
their operations under the project. Assurances on these points were obtained
during negotiations.
B. Participating Banks
5.03      The Bank of Brazil (BB); the state development banks of Minas Gerais
(BDMG), Espirito Santo (BANDES), Sao Paulo (BADESP), and Parana (BADEP); and



- 16 -
the Regional Development Bank for the Extreme South (BRDE) 1/ would participate
in the project (Annex 6).
5.04      Each state development bank would lend to sub-borrowers within its
respective sphere of operations, while BB would lend throughout the project
area and carry sole responsibility in those states not covered by the other
participating banks: Mato Grosso; Goias, including The Federal District;
Rio de Janeiro; and Quanabara. PBs would be individually responsible for
appraisal, supervision and collection of sub-loans, and would assume the
financial risk.
State Development Banks
5.05      General.  The state development banks operate within the framework
of federal and, particularly, state policies, and seek to promote economic
development by providing long-term credit to enterprises in priority sectors.
Although they are small in comparison to BB-7-the assetsof those partici- -
pating in the project at the end of 1971 ranged from Cr$85 million 2f to-Cr$454
million, or US$15 million to US$81 million), they have been an important source
of long-term financing for industry (Annex 6), and especially in agro-industry.
The state development banks that would participate in the project are compara-
tively new institutions, all of them having been established within the last
decade, some as successors to state development corporations. BDMG, BANDES,
BADESP, and BADEP are wholly or nearly wholly owned enterprises of the respec-
tive governments of the states of Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Sao Paulo,
and Parana, while BRDE is owned by the governments of Rio Grande do Sul,
Santa Catarina, and Parana. Each is governed by specific laws enacted by the
state legislatures but all are subject to the overall control of the BC under
the terms of Monetary Council Resolution No. 93 of 1968 as amended. State
development banks are not permitted to operate branch offices, but this re-
striction is not a constraint on their activities. Management is satisfactory
and the banks would constitute a satisfactory channel for project funds.
5.06      Source and Use of Resources.  In addition to their own capital and
reserves and, in the case of a few banks, deposits from the public, partici-
pating state development banks have access to various federal and state special
funds (Annex 6). The principal sources of federal financing are BC and the
National Development Bank (BNDE), although the Fund for Studies and Project
Planning (FINEP), controlled by the Federal Ministry of Planning, is being
increasingly used to finance project feasibility studies. The General Fund
for Agriculture and Industry (FUNAGRI) administered by BC and the Fund for
the Development of Small and Medium Industry (FIPEME) and the Special Indus-
trial Financing Agency (FINAME) administered by BNDE are of particular
importance.
1/   The Regional Development Bank for the Extreme South (BRDE) operates in
the states of Rio Grande so Sul, Santa Catarina, and Parana. However,
the regulations governing the state and regional development banks are
essentially the same, and the term "state development bank" is used to
include BRDE as well.
2/   All figures relating to operations of PBs are in terms of 1971 cruzeiros           0
(and 1971 dollars), unless otherwise specified.



- 17 -
5.07      Loans outstanding increased from Cr$594 million (US$106 million) at
the end of 1969 to Cr$1101 million (US$197 million) at the end of 1971. The
major portion was for industry. Lending rates vary substantially, depending
on loan purposes and source of funds. Most medium- and long-term loans are
adjusted according to the movements of either the National Treasury Bond
Index (ORTN), which is linked to the general price index, or of the cruzeiro/
dollar exchange rate.  Loans from FINEP funds carry an interest rate of 16%
per annum to sub-borrowers. FIPEME-financed loans have an interest rate of
4% per annum on outstanding balances adjusted for the change in the ORTN index,
while long-term loans from FINAME funds bear interest at 7% per annum on out-
standing balances subject to ORTN indexing. The banks' margins on loans
financed with borrowed funds are between 2% and 3%. Interest rates on loans
from the banks' own resources are generally in line with those charged on
loans financed with borrowed funds.
5.08      Financial Position.  The financial position of the participating
state development banks is quite sound (see balance sheets and income state-
ments appended to Annex 6). Loans have been made on the basis of competent
appraisals, and arrears to date have been reasonable at about 1% of portfolio.
In some cases, profits have been insufficient to compensate for the effects
of inflation on capital and reserves but this situation is expected to improve
as the banks reach more efficient levels of operation and obtain more adequate
margins on lending.
Bank of Brazil
5.09      BB is the country's largest commercial bank (with assets of Cr$47.8
billion, or US$8.5 billion, at the end of 1971) and is expanding its operations
in agro-industry as a complement to its primary emphasis on agriculture. It
performed the functions of a central bank until 1964 and still acts as finan-
cial agent for the Federal Treasury and other government agencies, but its
main objective is to promote and advance national production. It is execu-
ting agency for the Grain Storage Project (857-BR, US$30 million, 1972).
Government holds 55% of BB's share capital (Cr$1.8 billion, or about US$321
million, in 1972) and the rest is held by the private sector. The President
of the Republic nominates BB's president and one director, while 11 directors
are elected by shareholders. At end September 1972, BB had 810 branches
distributed throughout Brazil, of which 599 were in the 10 states comprising
the project area. BB would provide an effective complement to the state de-
velopment banks and would be an appropriate channel for all project funds in
those areas not covered by the other banks.
5.10      BB's main source of funds is deposits (short term, sight, and demand)
from the public, banks, other financial institutions, the Treasury, and BC.
BB's loans outstanding to the private sector at end 1971 totalled Cr$22.5
billion (US$4.1 billion), of which Cr$8.7 billion were for industry, including
Cr$1.7 billion for food production. Interest rates, monetary correction rates,
other charges, loan and grace periods, and security requirements also vary ac-
cording to the size and the purpose of the loan and the source of funds. In
1971, the weighted annual average yield (interest and other charges) on all
loans was 14.7%.



- 18 -
C.  Project Fund and Project Account
5.11      The Central Bank would establish a separate Project Fund, into
which would be paid the proceeds of the Bank loan, plus Government's contribu-
tion. PBs would draw from this fund to cover sub-loan disbursements as stipu-
lated in the subsidiary loan agreements (Schedule A). BC would establish a
Project Account which would reflect the operations and financial conditions
of the Project Fund and of BC with respect to all sub-lending transactions
within the framework of the project. In addition, each PB would maintain an
azcount which would reflect the status of the financing received by it under
the project.
5.12      PBs would draw from the Project Fund 100% of approved loans disbursed.
They would pay the Project Fund a rate of 2-1/2%, with indexing based on ORTN
prices, and would lend to sub-borrowers at 5%, also with indexing based on ORTN
prices.
D. Lending Policies and Procedures
Sub-loan Appraisal and Supervision
5.13      Potential sub-borrowers would prepare detailed feasibility studies
covering the technical, organizational, financial, and commercial aspects of
their sub-projects, which would determine the soundness of the investments
and the creditworthiness of the applicants (Schedule A). Each sub-project
appraisal would be submitted to BC for review. Processing facilities would
have to be approved by DIPOA, as required by law (paras. 3.11 and 3.14). BC
would set sub-loan approval limits for PBs as it judged appropriate. Since
some of the appraisal procedures recommended under the project are relatively
new to the PBs, and in order to permit the Bank to review cases involving
large amounts of financing, Bank approval would be required for sub-loans
as follows:
(a) the first two for beef processing;
(b) the first two for oilseed and milk processing;
(c) the first one of each sub-sector in the miscellaneous category;
(d) the first one of any PB which has not yet had a loan under
(a), (b), or (c) approved;
(e) those exceeding US$1.5 million; and
(f) those to an individual sub-borrower exceeding an aggregate limit
of US$2.0 million.
An assurance on Bank approval of such sub-loans was obtained during negotiations.



- 19 _
Sub-loan Terms and Conditions
5.14      Sub-loans would be limited to 80% of investment cost (excluding
the cost of land) and would have a maturity of up to 10 years, including a
maximum grace period of two years. The interest rate would be not less than
5%, with indexing based on ORTN prices. Since the ORTN prices are tied to the
general price index, the real rate of interest would also be 5% (the real
interest rate under the livestock loans--516-BR and 868-BR--and the grain stor-
age loan--857-BR--is about 3-1/4% 1/). PBs would pay BC 2-1/2% on refinancing,
also indexed on the ORTN prices, thus retaining a margin of 2-1/2%. Principal
and interest payments would be made semi-annually on the basis of the adjusted
balances outstanding. A commitment fee of 1/2% would be charged on the un-
disbursed sub-loan balances; an appraisal fee of 1% would be charged on the
amount of the investment cost of the sub-projects. Sub-loans would also be
subject to the financial tax of 1% of the initial loan amount, plus 1% of
interest payments.
5.15      Working capital financing to complement the financing of invest-
ment costs would be provided partly by sub-borrowers, partly by PBs, but
mainly by commercial banks. PBs would fill working capital financing requirements
not met by sub-borrowers and commercial banks (Schedule A).
E. Accounts and Auditing
e           State Development Banks
5.16      Participating state development banks' accounting methods are
satisfactory and their accounts are subject to inspection by BC. Each of
the participating state development banks has arranged with reputable audit
firms to conduct an audit of its 1972 accounts, which would be additional to,
and more comprehensive than, the BC inspections. It would be required that
each of the participating state development banks be subject to regular exam-
ination by external auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in respect of all their
activities (Schedule A).
5.17      The participating state development banks have not established
reserves for bad debts but rely on thorough appraisal and supervision and
security cover to protect themselves against default. However, although the
debt collection record of the participating state development banks to date
has been good (arrears are generally about 1% of portfolio), past experience
may not be a valid indication since their portfolios have expanded rapidly
in recent years and a large proportion of the loans are still in the grace
period. Consequently, participating state development banks would be required
to establish and maintain appropriate reserves for bad debts (Schedule A).
1/   Assuming a rate of inflation in the US of 4% per year.
0



- 20 -
Bank of Brazil
5.18      BB is also subject to inspection by BC.  These inspections would
be more detailed and would be given special focus for purposes of the project
(Schedule A).
Central Bank
5.19      The Project Account (para. 5.11) would be audited annually by an
independent auditing unit of the Monetary Council. A signed copy of the
auditor's report, including a description of the audit procedures, together
with certified copies of appropriate statements on the accounts, would be
forwarded to the Bank within four months of the end of the financial year.
Assurances on this were obtained during negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND OPERATING RESULTS
A. Production
6.01      The result of investments in beef processing would be higher quality
beef, increased production for sale on the domestic and foreign markets, and
better utilization (-* by-products. If the Government's target of 500,000 tons
of beef exports by the end of the decade is reached (para. 3.08), the contri-
bution of project plants to exports of about 420,000 tons in the full devel-
opment year of 1978 would be about 240,000 tons, or 57%. Incremental output
resulting from the project would be about 190,000 tons, and incremental ex-
ports would be about 140,000 tons.
6.02      Rationalization of their operations would enable oilseed processors
to lower their costs of production and extract a higher percentage of oil
from the seeds. Annual incremental output at full development of plants in-
cluded in the project would be about 200,000 tons of meal and 40,000 tons of
oil, virtually all of which would be exported.
6.03      Project investments would result in an increase of milk processing
capacity at full development of approximately 440,000 liters/day, or about
3% of present capacity. Annual incremental output would amount to about 13
million liters of milk, 5,000 tons of milk powder, 3,000 tons of butter, and
6,000 tons of cheese.
6.04      Since little is known about the relative participation of various
types of enterprise in the miscellaneous export-oriented food and feed pro-
cessing category, the increase in capacity and production which would result
from investments in this component (it is anticipated that most sub-projects
would involve new plants) cannot be predicted.
.



- 21 -
B.  Marketing
6.05      The market for beef is strong.  Domestic demand is growing as a
result of continuing population growth although price increases and increas-
ed production of pork and poultry are expected to keep per capita beef con-
sumption approximately constant through the end of the decade (Annex 2).
In the international market, demand is expected to continue increasing at
a substantial rate, although nor m-atching the extremely high growth of the
past few years. Rising suppl should make markets more competitive in the
future, but Brazil's production costs are presently, and are likely to re-
main, favorable in comparison to those of other exporting countries and its
level of technology is generally 1igh so that beef processors should not
have difficulty in disposing of all of their exportable production.
6.06      Brazil exports beef primarily to North America and Europe.  Because
of the aftosa problem, only cooked beef is exported to the U.S. and Canada,
but European markets accept fresh beef as well. Investments under the project
would enable plants to meet export requirements and to broaden their export
markets. Products are exported direct to foreign wholesalers or via a foreign
or local sales agent. In the domestic market, sales are most often made
direct to numerous small butcher shops, although volume purchases by super-
markets are becoming a factor in some of the large urban areas.
6.07      Demand on the international market for soybean meal has increased
dramatically in recent years and is expected to exhibit a healthy increase
during the 1970's (Annex 3), but the demand for crude soybean oil is expected
to be rather sluggish throughout the decade. In the case of meal, no signi-
ficant marketing difficulties are expected because of the buoyant demand and
the availability of channels direct to foreign food companies or sales agents
(the domestic market is still quite small). The situation for oil is somewhat
more difficult, but foreign sales agents are available to handle this product
also.
6.08      The demand for pasteurized milk and milk products is increasing
rapidly, especially in the urban markets. The processors normally deliver
products directly to retail outlets. Fruit juices face a rising demand on
the world market, with contracts often being made directly with foreign
processors or distributors. Feed and processed food products which might be
produced under the project generally are faced with increasing demand and
attractive market prospects.
C. Prices
6.09      While international beef prices have shown a significant increase
over the last five years, demand and supply are expected to increase at about
equal rates through 1980, leaving prices at the end of the period about the



- 22 -
0
same as those obtained in 1972. Although domestic prices can be expected
to rise over the next few years in line with the Government's policy (para
3.08), the actual movements cannot be predicted with any degree of accuracy
and therefore constant prices were assumed for the financial analysis (see
Annex 10 for a list of financial and economic prices).
6.10      Almost all of the output of oilseed (soybean) processors would be
exported. Although demand for soybean products is expected to continue its
strong growth during the 1970's (para. 6.07), under certain circumstances
(which may not all materialize in fact), supply might increase even faster,
resulting in a conservative forecast of declines in price between 1972 and
1980 of about 13% for soybeans, of nearly 30% for soybean meal/cake, and of
17% for crude soybean oil (Annex 10).
6.11      Virtually all milk products would be sold on the domestic market.
For fresh milk, the current controlled price was used for the financial
analysis, and for butter and cheese, the current uncontrolled prices were
utilized. The current domestic price for powdered milk is above the interna-
tional price, but the domestic market is presently in a state of flux and
therefore the current world market price, projected to remain steady, was
used (Annex 10).
D. Oyerating Results
6.12      Nine financial models were prepared to demonstrate typical invest-
ments under the project and they produced financial rates of return ranging
from 13 to 24% (Annexes 2 to 5). The investment, cash income, debt service,
and financial rate of return for a representative model for each project
component are indicated below (amounts in Cr$'000):



- 23 -
Miscel-
Beef                Oilseed            Milk        laneous
Processing            Processing       Processing    Processing
Description       Capacity 400           Capacity 300    Diversified    Orange juice
head/day; production  tons/day /1      plant; cap-    plant; cap-
for domestic and ex-                   acity 30,000   acity 587,000
port markets  /1                       liters/day /1  kg/day /1
Investment           18,310               16,650            3,210         12,520
Income
Gross Revenue      87,900               58,452            8,676         22,098
Operating Costs    80,480               54,176            6,999          17,910
Taxes
Value-added        1,280               /2                 781          /2
Income              554                TY                 142         7_
Net Cash Income      5,586               4,276              754          4,188
Debt Service           2,535               2,429              469           1,845
Net Cash Flow          3,051                1,286             285           2,343
Financial Rate of
Return (%)             24                   24               19              19
/1   New Plant (year 4).
Tz   No value-added or income tax on exports.
Sensitivity tests on all models indicate that the facilities would generate
adequate returns, even with increased costs or reduced operations. If invest-
ment costs were increased by 10%, the financial rates of return would be re-
duced to a range of 11% to 21X; if net income were reduced by 10%, the finan-
cial rates of return would fall to between 11% and 22%. Cash flow projections
demonstrate that sub-borrowers should be able to repay sub-loans within 10
years, including up to two years' grace, at 5% interest, plus ORTN indexing.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      In assessing the project's economic feasibility, each major project
component has been separately analyzed to determine its internal economic rate
of return and its contributions to employment and the balance of payments.  On the
basis of these criteria, beef, oilseed, and milk processing all appear eco--
nomically justified.



- 24 -
7.02      Primary benefits from beef processing would stem from improvement
in the quality of beef, increase in production, and fuller utilization of
by-products vihile those from oilseed processing, which would mostly involve
turning small inefficient plants into larger efficient installations, would
principally take the form of net-value added and more efficient extraction
of oils and meal. Milk processing and miscellaneous food and feed processing
would generate primary benefits in the form of net value-added attributable
to the facilities financed under the project.
7.03      For the project as a whole, secondary benefits would accrue to input
suppliers, including farmers, civil works contractors, equipment suppliers
and workers employed by these groups, as well as to output users, consisting
mostly of the general consuming public. These secondary benefits, although
not included in the calculation of the project's internal rate(s) of return,
are substantial. Aside from the general secondary benefits, the project
would give added impetus to the progress of Espirito Santo, a state with a
very low degree of development, not unlike the Northeast.
7.04      Based on quantitative estimates of primary benefits and on real
costs involved, the most probable internal economic rates of return on project
components would be: (a) beef processing, 53%; (b) oilseed processing, 23%;
and (c) milk processing, 48% (Annex 10). If investment costs increased 15%,
the rates of return would vary from 8% for oilseed processing to 26% for
beef processing; if current operation costs, including raw material, increase
15%, the rates of return would range from negative for oilseed processing to
20% for beef processing; if gross benefits decreased 15%, the rates of return
would range from negative for oilseed processing to 10% for beef processing.            0
The latter rates are low because of the nature of processing industries with
their high throughout.
7.05      The project would provide employment during construction of about
20,000 man-years, or an average of about 4000 persons per year over five years.
At full development, project-financed facilities would provide new permanent
jobs for about 4,300 persons as a result of expansion of capacity and further
processing of products, especially beef.
7.06      The project would contribute to gross foreign exchange earnings about
US$176 million per year at full development, of which about US$160 million
would be contributed by the beef processing industry and about US$16 1/ mil-
lion by the oilseed processing industry. Net foreign exchange earnings would
increase by about US$169 million annually, US$154 million from beef processing
and US$15 million from oilseed processing. Milk processing, an import-sub-
stituting industry, would enable Brazil to save about US$23 million of
foreign exchange, gross, and about US$22 million net annually at full devel-
opment. Other food and feed processing industries participating in the proj-
ect would be essentially export-oriented, and increases in their output would
also enable Brazil to raise exports.
11   Assuming that only two-thirds of total output from project units are
exported.



- 25 -
7.07      The project would benefit a wide variety of people, from producers
to consumers, and it is not possible to specify the relative impact on various
groups. However, the project would generate revenues in the form of income and
value-added taxes of about Cr$139 million (US$23 million) annually at full
development.
7.08      Improvements in hygiene and. better utilization of by-products would
considerably reduce the existing beef processing plants' undesirable effects
upon the environment. Most new facilities to be financed under the project
would be located close to production areas where population density is very
low; hence, the need for safeguards against air pollution is minimal. Those
located in urban areas are generally covered by existing zoning laws which take
cognizance of such aspects as noise, odor and air pollutants. Adequate safe-
guards against water pollution would be provided for under the project through
requirement of adherence to existing regulations and, in the case of beef
processing, specific treatment of effluent.
7.09      As a whole, the project would serve as an important catalyst in
generating momentum for the agro-industrial sector in Brazil and thus pro-
vide the agricultural sector with expanding markets for primary agricultural
products and the consuming public with better quality goods at lower real
prices. In indirectly assisting the participating banks, it would improve
their ability and capacity to meet Brazil's continuing need for medium- and
long-term credit. The experience gained with this project would also be
important for other projects of a similar type in areas with a less-developed
institutional framework, such as the Northeast.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) the Government would permit domestic beef prices to rise
gradually to world market levels and would, in any case,
maintain domestic prices at levels which would provide
adequate returns to producers and processors (para. 4.04);
(b) the Central Bank would consult with the Bank on the qualifi-
cations and terms of reference of key staff for the Project
Team and would hire consultants as required for review of
sub-projects (para. 5.01); and
(c) the Central Bank would send feasibility studies and appraisals
of specified sub-projects to the Bank for approval of sub-
loans (para. 5.13).



- 26 -
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a)  that the Government had updated the beef export regula-
tions (para. 4.04); and
(b) that the Central Bank had signed a subsidiary loan agreement
with at least one PB incorporating the provisions of Schedule
A (para. 4.12), and had established the Project Team after
consultation with the Bank on key staff (para. 5.01).
8.03      A condition of disbursement against Central Bank refinancing of
sub-loan disbursements of each PB would be the signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between BC and that PB incorporating the provis-ions of Schedule A
(para. 4.16).
8.04      The proposed project consitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$54 million, for a term of 15 years, including a five-year grace period.
June 1, 1973
0



SCHEDULE A
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Lending Criteria
The following provisions would be included in the subsidiary loan
agreements signed between the Central Bank (BC) and the participating banks
(PBs) for implementation of the project:
Equity Participations
1.   In cases where the PB has an equity interest in the
applicant firm, arrangements satisfactory to BC would
be made for an independent appraisal of the proposed
sub-project.
2.   Project funds would not be made available to any PB if
(a) the aggregate of the PB's lending to, and-equity
participation in, any single enterprise exceeded
either of the following:
Mi) 25% of the PB's net worth, i.e., paid-up
equity plus free reserves; or
(ii) 50% of the total assets of an enterprise;
(these limitations would not apply to short-term
financing of seasonal working capital needs), or
(b) the equity investments of the PB in any single
enterprise exceeded 20% of the capital of the enter-
prise, except in extraordinary circumstances.
Reserves
3.   PBs would establish and maintain reserves for bad debts
by annual appropriations and at a level.deemed appropriate
by BC.
Auditin8
4.   Participating state development banks would be subject to
regular examination by external auditors acceptable to
the Bank in respect of all their activities, and a signed
copy of the auditors' report, together with certified copies



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
of annual accounts, would be forwarded to the Bank within
four months of the end of each financial year. In the course
of the examination, the auditors would make a specific review
of project accounts and would carry out spot checks of indi-
vidual sub-projects to ensure that project conditions were
being complied with. The auditors' report would describe
the review and checks undertaken.
5.   In the case of the Bank of Brazil, the following require-
ments on accounts and auditing would apply:
The Bank of Brazil (BB) will maintain separate
accounts at its headoffice for operations under
Lending Program, including disbursement documents
for each sub-loan, and will be subject to regular
annual audit on project accounts, including accounts
of branches involved in the Project by BC. A signed
copy of BC auditors' report, together with certified
copies of annual BB project accounts, will be for-
warded to the Bank within four months of the end
r BB's financial year. In the course of their
examination, BC's auditors will carry out spot
checks of individual beneficiaries to ensure
that project conditions are being complied with.
The auditors' report will describe the review
and checks undertaken.
Sub-loan Conditions
6.   Sub-loans would be limited to 80% of the investment costs (ex-
cluding the cost of land) of sub-projects and would be granted
for a term of up to 10 years, including a maximum of two years'
grace. They would carry an interest rate of 5%, plus ad-
justment based on the National Treasury Bond (ORTN) price,
and a commitment fee of 1/2% would be paid on undisbursed
loan balances. PBs would also charge an appraisal fee of
1% of the investment costs. Refinancing from BC would
carry an interest rate of 2-1/2% with ORTN indexing.
7.   PBs would meet short-term financing requirements for working
capital not filled by the sub-borrowers or the commercial
banks.
8.   PBs would £-eimburse BC according to the same repayment
schedules established for sub-borrowers.
9.   PBs would require a feasibility study to be undertaken for
each sub-project.  Any applicants considered by the PBs as



SCHEDULE A
Page 3
not having adequate expertise to prepare their own studies
would be required to engage consultants to perform them.
Banks would prepare a list of approved consultants for use
by the applicants.
10.   Feasibility studies would cover the technical, organizational,
financial and commercial aspects of sub-projects. Particular
attention would be paid to the following:
(a) inclusion of financial statements certified by auditors
approved by the PB in the case of sub-projects involving
the rehabilitation or extension of existing enterprises;
(b) compliance with all relevant regulations, especially
the environmental protection standards and, in the
case of beef and milk processing, the federal hygiene
regulations;
(c) inclusion of filtration or pondage system for treatment
of effluent in beef sub-projects;
(d) provision for future plant expansion in beef sub-
projects;
*                         (e)  detailed justification for the inclusion of refining
facilities in any oilseed sub-project based on special
factors particular to the sub-project;
(f) indication of export potential for sub-projects falling
in the miscellaneous food and feed category;
(g) inclusion of a component for appropriate training of
technical personnel in each sub-project;
(h) presentation of cash flow projections and calculation
of the financial rate of return;
(i) adequacy of the supply of raw materials and the demand
for final products, both domestic and foreign, the
analysis to include projections of both supply and
deman .
11. Appraisal of sub-projects by PBs would cover the same aspects
as those included in the feasibility studies. In addition,
the following points would be given particular emphasis:
(a) managerial competence of the applicants;



SCHEDULE A
page 4
(b)  financial condition of the applicants, including
the adequacy of their debt/equity ratio after the
inclusion of the proposed investment;
(c)  availability of sufficient working capital for the
applicants' present and future operations;
(d)  overall supply and demand situation for the industry,
taking into consideration present and planned capacity
within the PBs' respective spheres of operations and,
to the extent feasible, in other regions as well.
12.   PBs would hire consultants to evaluate the technical aspects
of sub-projects involving expertise not found among their
regular personnel. It is expected that this procedure would
be followed for many of the sub-projects.
13.   Procurement procedures would be decided upon by the sub-
borrowers with the concurrence of the PBs. As a general
rule, PBs would require that sub-borrowers obtain quotations
from at least three contractors or suppliers and submit
them to the PBs for review of quality, suitability, and
price of goods.
14.   PBs would disburse directly to suppliers except in extra-
ordinary circumstances.
15.   PBs would make quarterly inspection visits to sub-borrowers
during the implementation period and annual visits during
the remainder of the sub-loan term.
16.   PBs would ensure that all project beef and milk plants were
inspected by DIPOA.
17.   All oilseed processing sub-projects would involve the
adoption of solvent extraction techniques.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
General Economy and Agricultural Sector
Comparative Demographic Data
1960 and 1970                        1960-1970
Compound
Annual
1960                 1970             Growth
Million    °/0 of    Million   °/o of         Rate
Persons     Total    Persons   Total          0/0
A. Total Population
Brazil                      71.0       100.0      94.5     100.0          2.9
Rural                       39.0        54.9     41.6       44.0          o.65
Urban                       32.0        45.1      52.9      56.0          5.2
Economically Active         22.7        31.9     29.5       31.3          2.7
Project Area                46.0        64.7     62.2       65.8          3.1
NortheastRegion             22.4        31.6      28.7      30.3          2.5
B.  Rural Population
Brazil                      39.0       100.0      41.6     100.0          o.65
Project Area                22.6        58.2      22.9      55.1          0.126
Northeast Region            14.7        37.8      16.7      40.1          1.25
C.  Urban Population
Brazil                      32.0       100.0      52.9     100.0          5.2
Project Area                23.3        72.9      39.3      74.2          5.3
Northeast Region             7.7        24.0     12.0       22.6          4.5
D. Economically Active Region
Brazil                      22.7       100.0      29.5     100.0          2.7
Agricultural Sector         12.2        53.7      13.1      44.2          0.72
Industrial Sector            3.0        13.1       5.3      17.8          5.9
Commercial Sector            1.5         6.7      2.6        8.9          5.6
Transport, Communication
and Storage               1.1         4.8      1.3        4.3          1.5
E. Project Area Population
Total                       46.0       100.0     62.2      100.0          3.1
Rural                       22.6        49.2      22.9      36.8          0.126
Urban                       23.3        50.8      39.3      63.2          5.3
F.  Northeast Region Population
Total                       22.4       100.0      28.7     100.0          2.5
Rural                       14.7        65.8     16.7       58.2          1.25
Urban                        7.7        34.2      12.0      41.8          4.5
Source:                 Fundacao IBGE, An4ario Estatistico do Brasil 1972, pp 40,46
and 47, 1970 figures are preliminary.
March 6. 1973



BRAZIL
AGRO-I2DUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
General Economy and Agricultural Sector
Selected National Accounts Statistics
(1971 Cr$ billions)
Compound Annual Growth
Rates (°/o)
1950     1960     1966      1968     1970     1971      150-b60     19b9-70      1966-71
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)       58.95   113.95   149.30   169.55   202.41   225.34         6.8         5.9           8.6
Agriculture (A)                 17.32    26.63    34.10    36.55    40.93    45.59         4.4         4.4          6.o
Industry (I)                    15.58    36.59    48.94    57.02    70.16    78.02         8.9         6.7          9.8
Gross Domestic Investments (GDI)   8.56    20.99    22.75    29.42    36.70    41.59          9.4         5.7         12.8
Fixed Investments (FI)           8.84    19.29    22.78    28.20    36.40    41.45         8.1         6.5         12.7
Domestic Savings (DS)              10.56    19.02    24.04    27.86    35.66    37.32         6.2         6.5           9.2
Domestic Consumption (C)           48.40    94.93   125.26   141.70   166.75   188.02         6.9         5.8           8.5
Ratios in 0/0:
A/GDP                           29.4     23.4      22.8     21.6     20.2      20.2
I/GDP                           26.4     32.1     32.8      33.6     34.7      34.6
FI/GDP                          15.0     16.9     15.3      16.6     18.0     18.4
DS/GDP                          17.9     16.7     16.1      16.4     17.6     16.6
C/GDP                           82.1     83.3     83.9      83.6     82.4      83.4
Gross National Product             58.14   112.61   148.36   167.92   200.18   222.94         6.8         5.9           8.5
Per Capita (1971 Cr$)              1,119    1,586    1,760    1,881    2,118   2,295          3.5         2.9           5.4
(1971 US$)               119       281      312      334       376     407
Special Sectors:                   1949     1958                                           1949-58      1958-70
Food Processing
Value of Total Putput            9.51    15.24    17.87    19.77    24.25    25.80         5.4         3.9           7.1
Gross Value Added                2.69     4.40     6.88      6.46     7.201/   8.20        5.6         4.6 v        3.6
Leather and Products Processing
Value of Total Putput            0.46     0.69     0.83      0.87     0.81,    0.85        4.7         1.5          0.53
Gross Value Added                0.18     0.30     0.39      0.40     0.35-i'    -         6.2         1.4  /      -3.7 3/
1Sr969                       E1 1958-69                         ls 1966-69
Sourcet                IBRD Economic Report 1972., Vol. I-T, Tables 2.2., 8.1 and 8.3. 
*                                                     



ANINTEX 1
Page 3
BRAZIL
fAG010 U,DUr5TRI&S- C7RPIDIT PROJECT
General BconoP7 and_ Aricultural Sector
Growth of Princip-] Arricultural Exports
(US$ millions)
Annual Co-oou cud
Growth Rate
1962     1965     1968         1971               1962-71
Percentage
Share of all
Commodity
Exports
Value     (°/o)
Traditional F'.orts
Coffee grains                643       707      774    772        26.6              2.1
Cotton                       112        96      131    137        4.7               2.3
Sugar                          39       54      102    147         5.1             15.9
Cocoa kernel                  24        28       46     62         2.1             11.1
Tabacco                       24        26       19     36         1.2             4h.6
Sub-total            824       911    1,072  1,154        39.7              3.6
Non-Traditionul Exports
Corn                          -         28       57     75         2.6             17.8 1J
Soybean                         8        7        6     24         0.8             13.0
Soybean meal                  -          7       18     78         2.7             49.5 1]
Peanut meal                     4        8        8     17         o.6             17.4
Peanut oil (crude)            -         -        -      22         0.8               -
Castor oil (crude)            15        27       36     40        1.4              11.5
Cocoa but.ter and oil         17        13-      26     24         0.8              3.9
Orange juice                  -          2       12     36         1.2             61.9 1]
Beef - fresh                    5       24       20     99         3.4             39.4
26.6 1/
Beef - processed                7       12       13      51        1.8             24.7
27.3 1J
Instant coffee                -          1       23     50         1.7             92.0 ]
26.4 2/
Pepper                        -         6        6    .15         0.5             16.5 1J
Sisal                        23        23       16     15         0.5             -4.6
Pine lumber, etc.             36       52       71      72        2.5              8.0
Sub-total          115       210      312    588        21.3             19.9
Total              927    1,121    1,384  1,742        61.0               6.9
Percentage Share of All
Exports                    78.8    69.3     73.6   61.0
1J1965-1971
/ 1968-1971                                                                       March 8, 1973
Source: IBGE, Sinopse Estatistica do Brasil. 1972. pp. 209-10



BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
CN                                       General Aconoiy and Agricultural Sector
H
Area, Yield and. Production of Solected. Farm Prodacts
Area                          Yield                        Production
1965      1968      1971       1965      1968       1971      1965       1968      1971
('000ha)--                    -(kV) --3----                  ----('IOCUtons)-------
Project Related Crops
Soybean                   43?        722     1,589      1,212       907      1,2244      523        654     1,977
Peanut (unshelled)         541       606        672     1,374     1,243      1,331       743        754       894
Castor beans               394       377         -        901       982         -        355        370        -
- Seed cotton             4,044     3,902      4,460      1496        512       483      1,986     1,999      2,153
Manioc                   1,750     1,998     2,041    14,282    14,615    14,827    24,993    29,203    30,258
Orange  /                  150       173        216        76.1      78.5       77.4  11,428    13,587    16,694
Other Field Crops                                                                 ---
Corn                     8,771     9,585    10,709    -1,381      1,337      1,336L12,112    12,814    14,307
Dry beans                3,273     3,663     3,743       -7- 61---   ----              2,290      2,420     2,500
~Rice (in husk)          4,619     4,459  . 5,o042      1,641      1,492     1,410      7,580     6,653      7,111
-Wheat                     767        970     2,261        764       883       943        585       856      2,132
Sugar Cane               1,705     1,687     1,692    44,486    45,420    47,051    75,853    76,611    79,595
Other Permanent Crops
Coffee                   3,511     2,623     2,584        997       807      1,390     3,664      241U5     3.j591
Cocoa                      482       433       442        333       345        480       161        149       212
Banana                     238       268       280      1,463     1,571      1,870       349        422       524
Black pepper                 4.4       5.6       6.0   2,021      2,532      2,760         8.9       14.1      16.4
Coconut -                   88       114       119      6,038     6,034      5,899       529        691       705
Sisal                      250       345       315        967       953      1,053       242        328       331
1/  Yields in thousand fruits/ha and production in million fruits.
1/  Yields in number of fruit/ha and production in million fruits.
Source: IBGB, Sinopse Estatistica do Brasil 1972.
_  ~     ~~ e



ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
-Geiera1- Eoonoaw'nd -Agriaultvwl Saector
Area Cultivated and Production of S Uetbed. Project-Related Crops by State in 1971
Area                    Production
Cultivated                             Share of7
('000 ha)         (000 tons)          National
Total (%)
Soybean
Rio Grande do Sul                  1,041               1J327              67.1
Parana                               373                 476               24.1
Other States in Project Area  /      174                 175               8.1
Total Brazil and Region       1,589               1,977             100.0
Peanuts (unshelled)
Sao Paulo                            500                 630               70.4
Parana                               112                 181              20.2
Other State                           60                  84                9.4
Total Region 3/                 612                 8I1              90.6
Total Brasil                    672                 894             100.0
Manioc
Rio Grande do Sul                    260               3,269              10.8
Santa Catarina                       169               3,225               10.7
Minas Gerais                         119               1,943                6.4
Sao Paulo                             96               1,817               6.o
Paran                                 81               1,724                5.7
Goias                                 63               1,088               3.6
Total Region                    789             13066                43.2
Total Brazil                  2041                  2               100.0
1/  Substantially all soybeans are grown within the project area.
2/  Including atates in project region not specifically identified..
3/  Excluding other states in project region not specifically identified.
*     -  Source:  IRGE, Sinopse Estatistica do Brasil 1972.
March 6, 1973






ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
Table of Contents
Page No.
A .   Production  * * * . .    ,. ... .              , .**99.9. 99             3
Livestock  ..... .. . , ,.,,  ...                                        3
Beef            .      , ............., ,,                             4
Bo   The Industry .,,,,,, ..                        .. . ,, , ,  ., ... .     5
Structure .......9.                           .. . , 9..., .,.            5
Regulations  . . . .,.. . .  ..   ..      ..     .9 , , ,              6
Plant Operations  ... ..79**....99 .                                       7
Inspection Program  *. *.....99.*.*. ,  ,. . .              ..            8
Investment Needs  ,, ................. . 9,.,9,.                           8
Sources and Availability of Funds                .......                   9
Equipment Supply                                                           9 ................ ,,,  9
C.    Marketing  999999999999999,,.9,99999,999,                                 10
Domestic Market  .............. .....   , -..                            10
Export Market  999999999999999999,999,.999999999999                      11
Govermnent Policy                          ......           , 9          14
D.   Financial Models  9  .*                         - *     * * * *  * '   * * . '  * '  18
Beef Processing Facilities  ....... ,                                     18
Refrigerated Trucking  *9999999sy99e.                                     19
Model A  9999999,.,9,,99999,.,,.,999999,9,999                             21
Model B .... ... . ................  ,.                                23
Model C ..... .........                                                   25
Model D ...... ,.,.,.,, ....... 9,,9          9.,9       9             27
Model E ,.. .......                     , , ..  , 9.,,.                29
E.    Investment Demand Under the Project  **...  ,*,,..,                       31



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Appendices:
2-1 - Cattle-Herd Size and Type in 1971
2-2 - Cattle-Frequency Distribution of Herd in 1971
2-3 - Cattle-Cow/Bull Ratios, Birth and Mortality Rates in 1971
2-4 - Cattle - Pasture Areas and Stocking Rates in 1971
2-5 - Beef - Head of Cattle Slaughtered and Carcass Weight by
Type of Abattoir
2-6 - Beef - Quantity and Value of Production According to Meat Type
2-7 - Domestic Consumption and Export of Beef and Related Data
2-8 - Beef Exports
2-9 - Chilled and Frozen Beef - Comparison of FOB
Export Prices and Domestic Wholesale Prices
2-10 - Beef Exports by Importing Country (1970-71)
2-11 - Export Quotas for 1972 and 1973
3
.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
A. Production
Livestock
1.        Brazil's cattle herd is estimated at about 84.8 million head, of
which about 77% is in the project area. The state with the largest herd is
Minas Gerais (19.5%), followed by Rio Grande do Sul (13.9%), Goias (11.0%),
Sao Paulo (10.3%), and Mato Grosso (9.5%), in which states abattoirs financed
under the project are expected to be mostly concentrated. In terms of func-
tional economic importance, about half of the country's as well as the proj-
ect area's total herd is beef cattle, 35% is both beef and dairy, and 15% is
dairy.  The southern states of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, and Santa Catarina,
which are included in the project area,raise the largest proportion of their
herds for beef, namely, 68%. (Details on 1971 herd size, regional distribution,
and type are in Appendix 2-1.)
2.        Based on specialized activities, beef cattle farming in Brazil can
be classified into seven types -- breeding, raising, fattening, and combina-
tions of these three (Appendix 2-2). For Brazil as a whole, the combined
activity of breeding and raising constitutes the most important ranching ac-
tivity, but in the project area, the largest group of beef cattle producers
combine all three activities. Within the project area, breeding alone is
an important activity in the center-west states of Goias and Mato Grosso,
but less so in Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo, and other southeastern states, and
of almost no importance in the southern states. Fattening as a specialized
ranching activity in itself is only being conducted in the southeastern part
of the project area, mostly in the state of Sao Paulo.
3.        The average ratio of breeding cows to bulls is about 17 for Brazil
as well as for the project area. The region with the highest ratio is in the
project area, namely, the southeast, which includes Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro, and Espirito Santo. Annual calving rates, expressed as the
ratio of annual births to stock of breeding cows, is about 52.7% for Brazil
and 53.5% for the project area. The ratios of cattle deaths due to diseases
and accidents to total cattle stock are about 3.8% for all of Brazil and 3.6%
for the project area. (Appendix 2-3 shows more details of cow/bull ratios,
calving rates, and mortality rates for 1971.)
4.        Virtually all cattle production in Brazil, including fattening op-
erations, is in pastures rather than in feedlots. There are about 147 mil-
*          lion ha of pasture land in all of Brazil, of which 73%, or 107.3 million ha,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
is in the project area.  These are mostly natural pastures and the south has
the highest proportion of natural pastures, with 89.5%. Only 27.4% of Brazil's
total is cultivated pasture and the proportion is even lower for the project
area, at 24.3%. Cattle density or stocking rate (head of cattle per ha of
pasture) for the country as a whole ranges from 0.5 (natural pasture during
dry season) to 2.9 (cultivated pasture during rainy season). The correspond-
ing range for the project area is 0.4-2.1. Details on distribution of pasture
areas as to region and type of pasture and stocking rates are in Appendix 2-4.
5.        Although Brazil has one of the world's largest cattle herds, its
productivity rates are very low compared to other principal beef-producing
countries. This law productivity is caused mainly by three factors: (a)
the poor health condition of the herd; (b) the low educational level of
farmers, which makes for the slow adoption of modern methods; and (c) the
"extractive" character of livestock exploitation in many areas, which means
that no special attention is paid to health, speed of growth, etc.
6.        In order to overcome these handicaps, the Government of Brazil has
been giving special emphasis to cattle production. Two IBRD Loans (516-BR
and 868-BR), totalling US$66 million, have been made to increase the produc-
tivity of cattle farming, and the proposed project is intended to improve
and expand the principal market for steers, hence, providing incentives for
higher farm production.
Beef
7.        Beef is produced chiefly in private commercial and municipal
slaughterhouses. The structure of the beef processing industry has grad-
ually shifted away from municipal and on-farm slaughtering operations to
private commercial units, mainly those without refrigeration facilities as
a result of continued consumer preference for warm meat (Appendix 2-5).
Overall beef production has grown from an annual average of 988,000 tons in
1952-1954 to 1.68 million tons in 1967-1969, or an annual compound growth
rate of 3.6%. Yield expressed in terms of carcass weight per head of cattle
slaughtered rose from an average 161 kg/head in 1952-1954 to 193 kg/head in
1967-69. The relative degree of sophistication among types of slaughter-
houses is indicated by differences in average weight of carcass for 1967-
1969, as follows: private commercial units with cold storage facilities,
228 kg/head; private commercial units without cold storage, 211 kg/head;
municipal slaughterhouses, 191 kg/head; and on-farm facilities, 170 kg/head.
8.        In terms of type of meat produced, the beef processing industry's
main output is fresh, unrefrigerated meat, which constituted about 71% of
total meat production in 1967-1969. Next in importance are refrigerated
fresh meat and charqui (dried beef), which made up 22.5% and 4.1%, respec-
tively; canned meat was only 1.2% of total production in these years
(Appendix 2-6). Average values per ton increased during the period 1954-
1956 to 1967-1969, with refrigerated meat registering the lowest rise at



ANNEX 2
Page 5
16.6% over the entire period (1.2% compound annual growth rate) and canned
meat the highest at 32.8% (2.2% compound annual growth rate). The average
unit values for the four meat types are as follows:
Unrefrigerated  Refrigerated    Canned                Industry
Fresh Meat         Meat         Meat    Charqui   Average
---------------…(1971 cruzeiros per ton) ------------------
1954-1956        2,437            2,225         3,687      3,461     2,509
1967-1969        3,086            2,595         4,898      4,153     3,041
Total Increase:
1954-1956 to
1967-1969       36.6%            16.6%        32.8%       20.0%     21.2%
9.        Despite its much slower rate of increase in average unit value,
refrigerated fresh meat has increased its share of total volume of meat pro-
duction from 13.9% in 1952-1954 to 22.5% in 1967-1969. Both unrefrigerated
fresh meat and charqui are declining, while canned meat is rising, in share
of total output (Appendix 2-6).
B.  The Industry
Structure
10.       Ownership.  Beef processing plants in Brazil are owned privately
by individuals, by corporations (Brazilian and foreign), by cooperatives and
by municipalities. Those owned by cooperatives of cattle producers represent
an integration of cattle producing, marketing, and processing. A number of
privately-owned and company-owned plants also include similar integration.
Those plants owned by foreign companies, however, include marketing of the
finished beef products in the integration. The ownership of plants by muni-
cipalities is declining, especially in areas where other plants can provide
beef for the domestic supply.
11.       Size.  The size of plants in Brazil is medium (200 to 800 cattle
per day) and small (50 to 200 per day). The large (1,000 to 2,000/day)
plants found in other countries apparently did not develop because a central
cattle marketing facility (stockyards) has never existed. While there are
still many very small plants (under 25/day), these will disappear as the
program of extending the national inspection service to all plants is im-
plemented, since most of them cannot comply with the national sanitary
standards or economically justify the investment necessary to achieve such
standards.
12.       Location.  There is a concentration of plants around population
centers and in areas where cattle have traditionally been fattened.  As



ANNEX 2
Page 6
cattle fattening areas are shifting and expanding into new areas, plants
are being planned for them. Cattle movement from the fattening ranch to
the plant is usually by truck, although some driving of cattle to truck
loading sites along improved roads does occur. Road improvements are under-
way or planned in many areas so that long distance movement of beef by re-
frigerated truck to port facilities for export is feasible. Rail transport
of cattle and beef products is also utilized in many areas, although rail
facilities are not being expanded into new areas.
13.       Expertise.  The expertise for the beef industry in Brazil is vested
in a small number of independent consultants, design engineers employed by a
number of abattoir operators, and engineers employed by the manufacturers of
processing and refrigeration equipment. The industry is also served by a
variety of consulting engineers who are primarily mechanical or civil en-
gineering oriented and make use of assistance given to them by the manufac-
turers of equipment. This is a pattern common in countries which have so-
phisticated beef industries.
Rgulations
14.       The beef processing industry is subject to regulation of sanitary
conditions urder the National Inspection Program, in existence for over 50
years. It is administered by the Division of Inspection of Products of
Animal Origin (DIPOA), one of six divisions in the National Department of
Animal Production in the Ministry of Agriculture.
15.       In 1971, a new law, No. 5760, was enacted establishing high stand-
ards of hygiene applicable to all meat processing plants. This law is being
implemented in a progressive manner starting in the southernmost state, Rio
Grande do Sul, with completion in that state planned by June 1973. This ac-
tion has resulted in closing several hundred substandard plants (mostly small
or very small) and the initiation of plans for rehabilitation and improvement
of many other plants. The next state scheduled for implementation of the law
is Sao Paulo, where preliminary surveys have been made and have already prompted
quite a number of plans for making improvements. In the case of export works,
plants must meet the sanitary requirements of importing countries and are
licensed by DIPOA when they so comply. 1/ In addition, importing countries
periodically send inspectors to review the operations and condition of plants
from which they receive supplies.
16.       All proposals to build new plants or improve or change existing
plants must be approved by DIPOA before any construction or equipment instal-
lations can begin. As work on the proposed changes nears completion, the
plant is reviewed by a DIPOA official and, unless the facility complies with
1/   Although the new domestic hygiene standards are generally comparable
to international standards, requirements of importing countries vary
widely.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
the approved drawings, it is not permitted to operate until required correc-
tions are made.
Plant Operations
17.       Because beef is highly perishable, the operation of a beef process-
ing plant involves some unique problems not encountered in other industries.
Once started, the operation must conform with limited time and temperature
conditions until the finished products are distributed from the plant or pur-
chased by the consumer.
18.       Seasonality.  Although some processing is conducted throughout the
year, there is a definite seasonal pattern with heavy slaughter during January
to May and limited slaughter during the other months. This corresponds with
the months when pasture is in the best condition and cattle achieve their
highest weight. Such seasonality of operations produces a number of ineffi-
ciencies such as: (a) less than 50% utilization of operating capacity during
seven months of the year; (b) necessity of retraining workers each year at
the start of the heavy slaughter season; and (c) necessity of storing a sub-
stantial inventory of meat each year to meet the uniform demand of the domes-
tic and export markets. While there is strong interest in starting feeding
lots in some areas so that cattle can be fattened throughout the year, it
will likely take five to 10 years to significantly change the existing fat-
tening pattern.
19.       Labor Use.  Beef processing plants are labor-intensive.  While mov-
ing chains for conveying carcasses and moving tables for conveying head,
viscera, meat and meat cuts, bones, and fat are being provided (and in some
cases required by DIPOA) in the improvement of plants, most of the work is
done by hand. Similarly, in processing the split beef carcass into quarters,
cuts, and boneless meat portions, most of the work of separating meat from
bone, cartilage, large blood vessels, and fat is also done by hand. Although
mechanical conveyors promote efficiency by moving products to and from the
workers, rapid and accurate knife work requires skill and training.
20.       Hygiene.  On the basis of observation of sample plants, hygienic
conditions are considered to be below internationally accepted standards
with few exceptions, and many structures have deteriorated so that they can-
not be maintained in acceptable sanitary condition. Many plants lack accept-
able drainage systems and separation between areas where edible products are
prepared and areas where inedible by-products are handled, and sanitary fa-
cilities for employees are usually missing or inadequate. The design and
construction of most equipment is inadequate because it is difficult or
impossible to clean and sanitize thoroughly and allows contamination of
edible products by contact with inedible or diseased material. Where new
construction has been undertaken or new equipment installed, most of these
deficiencies have been corrected.
21.       Effluent Disposal.  There is considerable variation in the treat-
ment of effluent.  Some plants use filtration or pondage systems but others



ANNEX 2
Page 8
discharge waste into streams or rivers either directly or after passing it
through a simple interceptor trap. The latter cases pose a health hazard
to users of water downstream, although this problem is less likely to occur
when there is a local sewerage treatment plant.
22.       Profitability.  Maximum profitability in the beef processing opera-
tion requires that all parts of the animal be utilized in preparing market-
able products of highest value and the recent upgrading of the national stand-
ards has resulted in closing many plants that were not doing so. Improved
plants often include facilities for preparing beef cuts and boneless beef,
which have a higher value than beef carcass sides or quarters. In some
plants, facilities are planned for preparing frozen cooked meat and/or canned
meat, which have even higher value. Improvements are also planned to allow
processing inedible parts of the carcass. Valuable protein materials needed
for animal feeds and other materials from these parts which have considerable
value for industrial use will be saved and upgraded in quality.
23.       Management.  The management and supervision of meat processing
plants appear to be about average in comparison with conditions in other major
producing countries. Since most of the plants are undergoing substantial im-
provement and changes in operations, management personnel will need training
in new processing techniques and the higher standards of hygiene. DIPOA
veterinarians can arrange for training necessary to assist management in
complying with the national and "special" standards of foreign countries,
and equipment suppliers provide training in the use of new equipment, new
processing techniques, and the preparation of new products for domestic and
export markets. In some cases, firms send their personnel to plants in other
countries for training.
Inspection Program
24.       Operations.  Routine post-mortem inspections are being performed
in a manner that would meet internationally accepted standards, and the vet-
erinary inspection of diseased or otherwise abnormal carcasses is also satis-
factory. However, there is considerable variation in the application of reg-
ulations regarding the sanitary condition of facilities, equipment, and
operations. This situation is by no means unique to Brazil, but DIPOA will
make efforts to achieve a greater degree of uniformity.
25.       Cost.  The cost of inspection in beef processing plants is about
30% of DIPOA's US$12 million annual budget, and the Government is now con-
sidering a "fee per head inspected" basis of financing at least a part of
the program. The fee would be Cr$3 to Cr$6 per head for beef (about 1/2%
of the price per head).
Investment Needs
26.       Investment needs will be substantial for most plants.  In a number
of cases, the most practical way to meet the required hygiene standards will



ANNEX 2
Page 9
be to build a new plant. If the present plant can be improved, the cost will
be less but will still be substantial because, in many cases, it will mean
removing existing inadequate equipment and structures and rebuilding and re-
equipping the plant. Some plants will be upgraded to meet the new domestic
*          standards only.  While these are comparable to international standards, the
plants may produce less processed products (chilled quarters) than they would
if they were producing for the international market. Other plants which will
be upgraded to meet export standards will produce more fully-processed prod-
ucts (e.g., frozen quarters and cuts), in general, and will require at least
an extra boning room, a freezing tunnel, and frozen storage.  Additional in-
vestment will be made in increasing the capacity of some plants and in in-
stalling facilities to prepare more fully-processed products (cooked, canned,
special cuts, etc.).
Sources and Availability of Funds
27.       Beef processing firms have had to rely heavily on the internal gen-
eration of funds to meet investment needs since the availability of long-term
financing is extremely limited. The state development banks constitute the
primary external source of long-term funds for the industry, but even they
have not yet become involved to an appreciable extent. In some cases, firms
have financed long-term needs by rolling over short-term loans. Then, too,
there is a difference between foreign-owned and Brazilian-owned firms:  the
0>         former are often able to obtain funds from the parent company or other sources
abroad, while the latter must rely on domestic sources. In any case, the
traditional sources are totally inadequate to meet the needs imposed by the
implementation of the new hygiene regulations.
28.       Working capital requirements are high for this type of industry,
although they are less in Brazil than in some other countries since payment
for cattle is usually made about 30 days after slaughter. These needs are
met with internally-generated funds and with short-term financing from the
commercial banks, including the Bank of Brazil.
Equipment Supply
29.       The range of equipment manufactured in Brazil is comprehensive and
reflects the way in which the manufacturers keep themselves informed on de-
velopments in other parts of the world,as well as the collaboration that
exists between overseas manufacturers and the local industry in the form of
joint ventures and facilities to manufacture under license. The firms' ca-
pacity to keep up with the current rate of development in the meat industry
is adequate and they have considerable reserve, particularly in regard to
refrigeration and other ancillary services. The times given for supply and
installation of processing equipment was generally less than that normally
found in other countries, largely due to the intensive on-site work done as
against maximum factory fabrication in more developed countries.
0



ANNEX 2
Page 10
C. Marketing
Domestic Market
30.       Consumption Data.  Apparent domestic consumption of the four prin-
cipal types of beef - unrefrigerated fresh, refrigerated fresh, canned and
charqui - grew from about 1.10 million tons in 1960 to 1.54 million tons in
1969, or an annual growth rate of 3.9%. Refrigerated fresh beef showed the
largest growth, at 8.5% per year, followed by unrefrigerated fresh beef (2.1%
annual growth) and canned beef (1.9% annual growth). Consumption of charqui,
on the other hand, declined at an annual rate of 2.7% between 1961 and 1969.
Unrefrigerated fresh beef constituted about 75% of the four principal beef
types in 1966-69, reaching an annual level of 1.1 million tons in 1969.
Refrigerated fresh meat made up 21% of the 1966-69 totals, with a level of
369,000 tons in 1969.
31.       Urban and Rural Markets.  The rural market is estimated to make
up about 40% of the total beef market in Brazil.  It is currently supplied
by small, non-inspected plants and almost all beef is sold to the retailer
as bone-in fresh sides or quarters, unprocessed, except for basic cleaning.
The retailer then breaks down the carcass according to local preferences.
The utilization of beef and edible offal is quite high, but losses never-
theless occur because no further processing is done; inedible by-products
are usually not utilized. Unreported slaughter supplements the small plant/
local butcher supply system.
32.       In the urban market, significant changes are occurring in the prod-
uct mix offered. Although less than 20% of the urban retail trade is now
through self-service supermarkets, a rapid rate of growth has resulted in
great improvements in chilled and frozen beef merchandizing through such
outlets. In addition to this widening acceptance of chilled and frozen
beef, inhabitants of the larger cities are also accepting various types of
pre-processed beef such as sausages, vacuum-packed, cooked frozen, and canned
beef products. Witness to the change in taste are the considerable numbers
of relatively small specialized plants which have sprung up during the last
decade. The large slaughterhouses in or near the major cities also manufac-
ture and market these products. For the present, the development of ready
meats, frozen T.V. dinners, and boil-in-bag are in the test market stage,
but some of the large slaughterhouses expect to go into regular production
of limited quantities by 1974. The bulk of the urban market, however, is
still dominated by a consumer preference for unchilled meat and deals with
small retail butchers.
33.       Storage and Transport.  In 1969 about 426,000 tons of meat, or ap-
proximately 18% of total meat production, went through cold storage. Present
static cold storage capacity for meat in Brazil is about 70,000 tons, out of
a total of 100,000 tons for all products, including private as well as public
fa-ilities. A rapid expansion will raise static capacity to about 170,000
tons by 1974, 37,800 tons of which will be exclusively for export purposes.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
However, at a turnover rate of seven times a year, about 900,000 tons of
meat will go through storage, equal to about 28% of projected total meat
production, and more facilities will be needed to serve the domestic (ca-
pacity must be sufficient to cover requirements during the low beef produc-
tion season: June through December) and export markets.
34.       Compared to other regions of Brazil, the center-south has a rela-
tively well-developed transport system. The rate of expanding and improving
major highways has been very rapid in recent years, and the programs are being
continued under a master plan, partially assisted by the Bank. The rural road
system is also receiving increased attention, with a program to develop 10,000
km of roads begun recently. The railroad system, important to beef transport
in Sao Paulo state particularly, is also receiving increased attention. The
Government is arranging the purchase of additional refrigerated railroad cars,
and rail line improvement is being carried out, especially on the Sao Paulo
to Santos line.
35.       In 1969 there were about 800 insulated and mechanically refrigerated
trucks operating in Brazil. However, many of the latter are used solely for
export shipments; most of the meat destined for the domestic market is shipped
in insulated trucks, which results in a higher rate of product quality deteri-
oration and spoilage than necessary. Because of the shift in slaughterhouse
locations to fattening areas, it is important that mechanically refrigerated
a         truck fleets be used to keep the beef from spoiling.
Export Market
36.       Export Data.  While world imports of beef rose from about 1.94 mil-
lion tons in 1965/66 to 2.61 million tons in 1970/71 (about 6% per year),
Brazil's beef exports increased sharply from 30,000 tons valued at US$20
million in 1966 to 174,000 tons (about 34% per year) at US$200 million in
1972. The rise in unit value was from about US$670/ton in 1966 to US$1,150/ton
in 1972. The most important beef export is frozen beef, with a 1970 total of
about 93,000 tons, valued at US$63.2 million, compared with canned beef, the
second most important category, which had a 1970 volume of less than 17,000
tons, valued at US$15.8 million. Chilled beef exports are still rather small,
with a 1970 volume of just over 4,000 tons, valued at US$5.5 million (Appen-
dix 2-8).
37.       Beef exports still account for a small percentage of domestic pro-
duction. Both in 1970 and 1971, they accounted for only about 8.4% of pro-
duction and if we separate fresh (both refrigerated and unrefrigerated) beef
from canned beef exports, an even more interesting picture emerges. Between
1966 and 1969, fresh (frozen and chilled) meat exports accounted for only
2.0% of total domestic production of fresh meat. Canned meat exports, on
the other hand, accounted for 70.0% of total canned meat production (Appen-
dix 2-8).
0



ANNEX 2
Page 12
38.       Volume of frozen beef exports grew at 24% annually between 1960-
1961 and 1969-70, with average price per ton (FOB Brazilian ports) corres-
pondingly rising from US$502 to US$636. Chilled beef exports grew in volume
at 55% per year during the same period, with average price per ton increasing
from US$455 to US$823. Canned beef registered the lowest growth in export
volume as well as in average prices received during this period; volume grew
at 4.4% per year and price per ton changed from US$847 to US$910. Details
on quantities, values, and prices of beef exports are shown in Appendix 2-8,
which also presents data on charqui and veal exports. Comparison between
FOB export price and average price received by processors are shown in
Appendix 2-9.
39.       Importing Countries.  Brazil now exports to almost every Common
Market and other European countries, Israel, and the US, with small quanti-
ties also going to other Middle East countries, the Caribbean, and Japan
(Appendix 2-10). In 1970-71, 68% of Brazil's beef exports weie fresh
(chilled or frozen) and 32% were cooked. Western Europe took more than
75% of the fresh beef, with Italy, the low countries, Spain, and the UK
taking more than 5,000 tons each, and Greece, Federal Republic of Germany,
Portugal, and Switzerland taking more than 2,000 tons each. The US and
Canada took more than 75% of all cooked beef exports. Outside these re-
gions, Israel is the only other large market, buying nearly 6,000 tons in
1970-71. Demand in thf'se countries increased rapidly during the 1960's -
by 25% in the US, by 20% in the Common Market countries, and by between 200%
and 400% in several southern European countries.
40.       Packaging for export is undergoing substantial changes to lessen
damage and spoilage in transit. Cardboard cartons with dividers are replac-
ing wooden boxes for packing canned products and special cuts, and polyethylene
bags and cardboard cartons are fast being substituted for hessian and mesh
stocking in the packaging of bone-in frozen and chilled meat.
41.       Sales and Marketing Procedure.  Export sales are handled in three
ways: direct sales, sales via a foreign agent, or sales via a Brazilian
agent. The large and well-established slaughterhouses sell directly to for-
eign wholesalers, either through a Brazilian-based export sales team or,
where volume warrants, through branch sales offices abroad. In addition,
some sales are made to foreign agents.
42.       Sales to foreign agents or Brazilian agents are the normal channel
of distribution for the smaller exporting slaughterhouses, which do not have
strong international contacts. Agents' fees are understood to be in the re-
gion of 6 to 7%, sometimes ranging up to 15% of net sales. The fees vary
according to the level of services provided.
43.       Marketing support is of three varieties:  that provided by the
manufacturers' associations, that provided by one of the State Goverrnents,
and that provided by the Federal Government. One of the associations, the
Br--.ilian Committee of Meat Exporters (CBEC), operates marketing support or-
ganizations in Rio Grande do Sul, Sao Paulo, and Minas Gerais/Espirito Santo,



ANNEX 2
Page 13
and there are plans to extend services to Goias and Mato Grosso in the near
future.  The only marketing support offered at the state level is provided
in Sao Paulo, where the Export Promotion Center (COPEME) has been in existence
for a year. It works closely with the state development bank, and its objec-
tive is to directly assist private manufacturers and commodity exporters and
to do long-range research studies. Federal Government support is provided
primarily through CACEX, the export arm of the Bank of Brazil, which provides
market intelligence services and export financing to processors.
44.       Major port improvement programs are now underway in Vitoria (ES),
Santos (SP), and Rio Grande (RS) and cold storage capacity is being expanded.
Static cold storage facilities at the ports should increase from 11,200 tons
in 1972 to 52,800 tons in 1974, of which 15,000 tons at Santos will be used
specifically for fruit juice storage. This will provide adequate facilities
for throughput of about 450,000 tons per year for beef and 180,000 tons of
juice (at a turnover of 12 times a year), if required and result in more
rapid turnaround times for both ships and trucks delivering to the port.
It will also eliminate the need for direct loading from truck to ship, which
is a common occurrence now in the ports of Santos and Rio Grande.
45.       Product Mix.  The variety of beef products exported now by Brazil
is limited because of the prevailing price structure of the international
market and the varying foreign sanitation regulations. Brazilian slaughter-
houses have concentrated on building up exports of frozen and chilled quarters
and sides to markets such as Italy, Spain, and Holland, where sanitary regula-
tions are less stringent. The US and Canada, however, prohibit the importa-
tion of uncooked meats from countries which have not eradicated foot-and-mouth
disease so that Brazilian processors have developed cooked products which
meet specific needs of the hotel, restaurant, and institutional market for
the US and they have also been well accepted in Canada.
46.       For the future, Government is concerned about increasing the amount
of value added in beef exports so as to derive greater economic advantage for
the country as a whole. Greater concentration on processed beef products and
special cuts will be necessary anyway if Brazil is to become a major world ex-
porter, for these are the market growth areas of the 1970's and this is the
best way for Brazil to make a significant impact on the important markets of
the Federal Republic of Germany and the UK. New market areas for frozen
cooked beef have been identified in the rapidly growing hotel, restaurant
and institutional market and also in pre-portioned products. New market
areas for non-cooked beef have been identified as "cryovac" packs (vacuum
packaging in plastic) and prepacked special cuts. While there are diffi-
culties with the latter because considerable variations of the special cuts
exist from country to country and even from region to region, both get premium
prices, require no further processing, and have adequate shelf lives.
47.       Trade Barriers.  Specific and "ad valorem" duties are not the major
obstacles to expansion of international trade in meat since their incidence
is not unreasonably high and rarely could they be considered prohibitive.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Governments exhibit an increasingly flexible approach towards the use of
tariffs, and sliding-scale duties are now used by the EEC, Austria, and
Sweden. Sliding-scale duties allow flexibility: duties are lifted when
the local market price is above a fixed guide price and a levy equal to
the difference between the market and guide price is reimposed when the
market price falls below the guide price.
48.       Under normal circumstances, Brazilian beef entering the EEC is
treated as third country beef and is therefore subject to a basic 16% "ad
valorem" duty as well as to the sLiding-scale duty. The UK maintains a 5%
"ad valorem" duty on beef and veal imports from non-preference areas, of
which Brazil is one, and this level of duty will continue until the UK be-
gins to move towards the EEC Common External Tairiff on January 1, 1974. The
US does not employ tariffs to control meat imports although countries that
may supply uncooked meats are subject to individual national quotas allocated
on the basis of previous performance (these quotas are temporarily suspended
at the present time). There is no control on imports of cooked beef.
49.       Non-tariff barriers raise more serious obstacles to expansion.
Import quotas, seasonal limitations, licensing, hygienestandards, and con-
trol procedures and tariff classification methods complicate the marketing
problems of an international meat exporter, largely because of the profusion
of various national st_ndards and applications of those standards.  However,
Brazilian meat exporting companies do not feel taht non-tariff barriers are
insurmountable, but rather that the situation has eased in recent years and
that adjustment to non-tariff barriers is a relatively mechanical process,
which does not now upset their trading patterns very much.
Government Policy
50.       Obiectives - Brazil's two most important objectives with signi-
ficant bearing on beef policy are: (a) continued increase in non-traditional
exports in order to raise foreign exchange earnings and stabilize trade with
other countries; and (b) reduction in the rate of inflation to a 1973 target
level of 12%, which would be the lowest in well over a decade. With reference
to the first objective, Brazil aims at exporting about 0.5 million tons of
beef by 1980, from the current level of less than 200,000 tons. As a low-
cost beef producer and with average per-capita income substantially lower
than those of major beef importing countries, Brazil could be expected to
be a natural beef exporter. Indeed, it would be currently exporting far
more than the 1980 target if this did not run counter to the second objective
of keeping inflation in check. The importance of this second objective under-
scores the reason for close Government regulation over beef exports and do-
me8tic beef prices.
51.       Due to the importance of the domestic beef price in the general
price index, the Government has therefore found it necessary to control this
price as part of its inflation control program. Thus, the 1972 domestic whole-
saie price of beef was set at only about 60% of the corresponding FOB export
price (about US$ 700/ton as compared to US$1,150/ton for deboned beef).  To



ANNEX 2
Page 15
sustain this price differential as well as assure adequate returns to pro-
*         cessors, the Government has also established maximum prices to farmers and
adopted a set of export controls. These controls include an export tax, a
system of xport quotas, and a storage requirement tied to exported quanti-
ties, deoigned to even out seasonal beef supply to the domestic market (see
paras 58-62). Between now and 1980, the Government intends to allow the
domestic price to rise gradually to a level consistent with the correspond-
ing FOB export price. This goal of allowing price to increase continuously
is consistent with the price pattern of the last several years. Real prices
received by producers in January 1973 were 60% higher than those in January
1970, an average annual rise of about 17%. In order to close the gap between
domestic and FOB export price for 1980, the domestic price has to rise at an
average of 6.6% per year faster than FOB export price. The extent of the
required real rise would, of course, depend on the behavior of the interna-
tional price of beef.
52.       A further important element in the situation and one which has a
substantial influence on investment demand under the project, is the Govern-
ment's drive to raise the hygiene standards of all meat processing plants.
The objective is to upgrade the quality of beef sold on the domestic market
to international standards. In addition to supplying high quality beef to
domestic consumers, beef processors would be operating at a level of sanita-
tion which would permit them to export if they had the facilities to produce
the types of products demanded in the international market.  New federal sani-
tary regulations were promulgated at the end of 1971 and are being applied to
all meat processing plants on a state-by-state basis.
53.       Production Increases.  The Government has undertaken a number of
programs to increase the production of beef, given the various price con-
straints. One of the important initiatives is the National Animal Health
Program, particularly the Aftosa (foot-and-mouth disease) Control Program.
This program, directed by the Ministry of Avriculture, is funded by the Gov-
ernment and also by a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank, which
is financing the establishment of laboratories for the quality control of
vaccines. The current planning for aftosa control envisions bringing all
of the principle beef producing states under full vaccination control within
16 years of its initiation in 1971. The aftosa control program has high
priority because the disease affects hundreds of thousands of cattle in
Brazil and, although mortality is not great, cattle weight and calving
rates are adversely affected to a serious degree.
54.       The Government is also implementing a livestock development pro-
gram with the assistance of financing from the Bank (516-BR and 868-BR) and
IDB. Long-term credit is made available to ranchers for investments designed
to increase the size and productivity of their herds, in combination with
technical assistance on pasture establishment and herd management. Included
in the program is applied research aimed at developing improved methods of
pasture establishment, maintenance, and utilization. A further element is
a marketing study, currently underway, which seeks to identify improvements



ANNEX 2
Page 16
needed in the procedures and institutional framework for the marketing of
livestock and meat products. The program is administered by a special Gov-
erment agency, CONDEPE, which operates under the umbrella of the Ministry
of Agriculture.
55.       Another policy aimed at increasing the national herd prohibits
processors from slaughtering female bovines of breeding age (up to six
years) unless the animals are certified as being diseased or otherwise
physically incapable of breeding. Finally, various fiscal incentives are
offered ranchers to encourage them to improve their productivity.
56.       Domestic Demand.  Domestic demand is the most uncertain element in
the equation. Rising population and per capita income would tend to cause
an increase in consumption. However, neither the price of beef nor the
prices of substitute goods (primarily pigs and poultry) vill remain constant.
The price of beef will rise, in line with the Government's goal of equalizing
the domestic and international prices, while the prices of pigs and poultry
are likely to decline in real terms as supply expands at a fairly rapid pace.
If the real price of beef increases sufficiently in relation to the real
prices of pigs and poultry, the income and price effects will offset each
other, per capita domestic demand will remain constant, and increases in
per capita production -an be exported. The Government's target of 500,000
tons of beef exports by the end of the decade then is likely to be attained.
57.       Control Mechanisms.  There must, in any case, be a restriction on
exports as long as the domestic price for beef is below the world market
price. Furthermore, if supply and demand do not quite match at the price
which the Government considers acceptable, some form of price controls will
be needed. Thus, export quotas and price controls, together with a storage
requirement designed to counteract the seasonal fluctuation in supply, are
the main features of the Government's effort to regulate the flow of beef
to the domestic and foreign markets. Two new elements for 1973 include an
export tax and a decrease in the ICM.
58.       The export quota systems for 1972 and 1973 are indicated in Appen-
dix 2-11. For each of the years, the overall quota is divided into an untied
quota, a quota related to storage requirements, and a special quota reserved
for new processors. Furthermore, each beef processing firm must supply the
domestic market with a proportion of its slaughterings which meets or exceeds
established standards (50% in Rio Grade Do Sul and 60% in Central Brazil).
Between 1972 and 1973, the overall quota was reduced from 180,000 tons to
144,500 tons (actual exports in 1972 were about 174,000 tons). The untied
quota was reduced from 55,000 tons to 35,000 tons, the quota related to
storage requirements was reduced from 113,000 to 69,000 tons, and the quota
for new processors was increased slightly from 12,000 to 18,000 tons. The
storage requirements were increased for 1973. In 1972, the requirements
were 1 ton of beef placed in storage for every 5 tons exported (Rio Grande
do Ful) and 1 ton stored to 1.5 tons exported (Central Brazil).  For 1973,



ANNEX 2
Page 17
they are 2:5 (Rio Grande do Sul) and 1:1 (Central Brazil). 1/ At the time
of the appraisal mission (November/December 1972), the Government was plan-
.         ning to raise the overall quota for 1973 to 203,000 tons, primarily through
an increase in the untied quota. A brief interlude of freed consumer prices
for beef at the beginning of this year led to increases of about 40% over the
previous agreed prices, however, and the Government subsequently reduced the
quota for 1973.
59.       The Government also introduced a new package of agreed prices 2/
and taxes in response to the experience with freed prices. The price of
steers was set at about Cr$4.20/kg 3/ (down from an unregulated price of about
Cr$4.67/kg); the agreed wholesale prices for forequarters and hindquarters
were raised from Cr$3.20 and Cr$4.20 to Cr$3.50 and Cr$5.00, respectively;
the ICM (value-added) tax on cattle and beef products was decreased from
about 15% to 5%; and an export tax on beef products of US$200/ton was in-
stituted.
60.       The net effect of all these changes was to lower slightly the
price to producers (the decrease in sales price was largely offset by the
cut in the ICM), increase the margin to processors on domestic sales, de-
crease the margin to processors on export sales, increase the (official)
price to consumers, and, of course, decrease exports between 1972 and 1973.
Furthermore, the Government has indicated that the states will receive at
least a part of the proceeds from the export tax as partial compensation
for the loss of revenue from the decrease in the ICM (a state tax).  While
the export tax thus may have been instituted to recover some of the tax rev-
enues lost, the reduction in exports appears to have been largely a symbolic
gesture. Since exports constitute less than 10% of total production, the
reduction should not have a major influence on the domestic price.
61.       Until domestic and world prices are the same, however, the Govern-
ment will be faced with the necessity of juggling a series of export controls
and price agreements in an attempt to meet domestic demand at the artifically
low price while avoiding a negative effect on production. The Government has
1/   The combined result, for any given export processor, of the requirement
on slaughterings and the requirement on storage is as follows (1973):
in Rio Grande do Sul, the processor supplies 50% of his meat output
directly to the domestic market, stores 25% of the remainder, and ex-
ports the rest; in Central Brazil, the processor supplies 60% to the
domestic market, stores 50% of the remainder, and exports the rest.
Thus, in Rio Grande do Sul, 50% of the meat output goes directly to
the domestic market, 12.5% goes into domestic storage, and 37.5% is
exported. In Central Brazil, 50% goes directly to the domestic market,
25% goes into domestic storage, and 25% is exported.
2/   At the present time, prices on cattle and wholesale prices are maintained
through informal agreements between the Government and processors. Re-
tailers are generally permitted a margin of 40 to 50%.
3/   Carcass weight.



ANNEX 2
Page 18
assured the Bank that it will permit the domestic price of beef to rise,
although not precipitously, in real terms until it reaches the world
market price. At that level, it is likely that Brazil will be a major
exporter, without any controls.
D. Financial Models
62.       Five models have been selected as representative examples for the
beef sector. Four of the models represent varying sized beef processing
plants likely: to be financed by the project. The fifth represents a refri-
gerated trucking operation.
Beef Processing Facilities
63.       The primary stimulus to investment in beef processing facilities
is the necessity of meeting new federal hygiene requirements. A few of the
enterprises which would participate in the project may already satisfy the
sanitary regulations and may simply install additional facilities such as
cooking units for the further processing of beef products, but most would
have to make some modifications in order to comply with the regulations.
Secondly, there would je a number of plants wishing to make modifications
which would enable them to move into the export market.  Finally, some firms
will be increasing the capacity of their plants and constructing some new
plants in order to accommodate the slaughtering volume of plants closed by
the hygiene officials and the additional production from the country's grow-
ing herd.
64.       In light of the above factors, the primary variables among plants
which would be included in the project are capacity, intended market and
product line. Plants in Brazil are generally in the small to medium range
and can perhaps be represented by three capacities: 200 head/day, 400 head/
day, and 800 head/day. Most of the plants at 200 head/day probably will pro-
duce only for the domestic market, while those at 800 head/day almost cer-
tainly will export as much of their production as possible, limited only by
the Government's export restrictions. Some of the plants at 400 head/day
would export, others would not. In order to maintain a conservative approach,
it is assumed that 20% of the beef production of export plants would be sold
on the international market, a figure which is based on current exports and
the proportion of export-oriented plants likely to participate in the project.
The diversity of products produced by beef processing plants is very large,
and therefore, basic products are assumed for each market in order to achieve
a common denominator: warm and chilled quarters for the domestic market and
frozen quarters and cuts for the export market. Analyses of cooking units
and charqui (dried beef) operations have been performed, and the rates of
return are high, since the marginal investments are relatively small.
6,.       The models, then, consist of the following:
(a) Model A: capacity 200 head/day, production for the
domestic market;



ANNEX 2
Page 19
(b)  Model B:  capacity 400 head/day, production for the
domestic market;
(c)  Mocel C:  capacity 400 head/day, production for the
domestic and export markets; and
(d)  Model D:  capacity 800 head/day, production for the
domestic and export markets.
66.       Prices used for the models are those that existed in November 1972.
Since the changes introduced at the beginning of 1973, involving the decrease
in the price of cattle, the increase in the agreed domestic price for beef, the
reduction in ICM, and the imposition of the export tax, led to an increase in
the average margin to processors, the models were not revised to reflect the
new situation. WTorld market prices are expected to remain approximately con-
stant during the life of the project, and domestic prices are also taken to be
constant, even though they are expected to rise gradually to world market levels.
67.       For the financial analysis, total revenue and operating costs of
plants are taken as incremental. This procedure is adopted since almost all
sub-projects would involve modifications to meet the federal hygiene stand-
ards, and if the plants did not comply with the regulations, they could not
operate. Therefore, the revenue and operating costs in the "without project"
case are zero.
68.       Similarly, incremental investment costs are assumed, in each case,
to be the cost of a new plant. Existing facilities would have a value, even
if they were not modified to meet the hygiene regulations (and thus could not
operate), since other investors would be willing to purchase them, make the
necessary modifications, and run the plants. The price the investors would
be willing to pay depends on the depreciated value of existing facilities and
the cost of modifications necessary to meet the standards. The significance
of depreciated facilities for the rate of return calculation is that replace-
ment would be required sooner than for new facilities; the maximum amount
investors would pay would be determined by the cost of a new plant less the
cost of required modifications. Therefore, new plant investment costs are
assumed in all cases.
Refrigerated Trucking Company
69.       Model E represents a small enterprise investing in five refrigerated
trailers with tractors. The main business of the company, working in close
connection with a few slaughterhouses, is to transport deep frozen meat to
the harbors for export. It is assumed that the trailers get at least an
average load of other products on each third trip back, resulting in a total
utilization of the fleet of about 70%. Nominal capacity of the trailers is
25 tons and the average load is assumed to be 22 tons. The refrigeration
equipment is capable of maintaining temperature in the trailers at -20°C.



ANNEX 2
Page 20
70.       The tariff used in the model is that which existed in November
1972. The operating costs are calculated from information received during
the field visits and from the Brazil Transport Sector Brief (Supplement IV,
January 1973). The investment costs are based on quotations for tractors
and trailers and include a small office, garage, and repair shop. Three
truck/trailer units would be purchased the first year and two the second.



ANNEX 2
Page 21
MODEL A:  Beef Processing Plant;
Capacity, 200 head/day;
Production for Domestic Market
Capacity, Utilization, and Annual Production                                                                              Investment Costs
(Cr0 '000)
Maximsm Aount of Cattle- per Day:                            200                                                                       Total Cost       Foreign Exchange Component
Am.o.nt of Working Days per Year:                           260                     Land                                                   150              -                _
Average Total utilization due to Seasonal                                           Civil Works:
Fluctuations:                                       67%
Land Preparation and Roads                         500               10              50
Amount of Slaughtered Cattles per Year:                  34,800                         flast Faciliti-s  /                              1,800              10              180
By-2roducts Rrndez;ng                               100              10               10
Sanitary Slaughter 7/                               150             10               15
Laundry                                              50              10                5
2 /                                                                      Engine Room                                          40              10                4
Dressed Beef -                                            8,350 tons                   Boiler House                                         40              10                4
3/                                                                      Work Shop                                             80              10                8
Edible Offal                                             1,044 tons                   Staff Amenities and Ad,inistration  3/              200              10               20
3/                                                                    Optional Areas                                      300              10               30
Inedible Offal                       ~                    1,218 ton.                   Water and Sewage System                             600               8               48
Hides                                                       835 tons                            Sub-total Civil Works                    3,860              10              374
Equip-ent:
Meat and Offal Processing Equipment              2,350               20             470
Refrigeration Eqoipoent                             600              20             120
Steam Plant                                         150             25               38
Electrical Installation and Transformers            160             30               48
Vehicles                                             70              25               18
Water Storage and Treatment                         150              15               23
Maintenance Mauhinery                                40              15                6
Laindry                                              25              10                3
1/  A.verage liveweight, 460 kg                                                        Office Equipment                                     70              25               18
2/  Average weight, 240 kg                                                             Miscellaneous                                        60              20               12
3/  Edible offalcaboat 30 kg/animal
Inedible offal pr-o-ssed, about 35 kg/animal                                                Sub-total Equipment                     3,675               21              756
Installation                                         1,250              10              125
Feasibility Study and Engineering                      700               -               -
Contingencies, 10%                                     970              13              126
TOTAL                                  10,605               13           1,381
l/ 4 lion 2
2/  170 m
3/  400m
Income                                                                                                  Operating Costs
(Cr$ '000 per year)                                                                                            (C$ '000 per year)
Direct Costa
Foreqs-rtets          4,008,000 kg @ 3.20 Cr$/kg =   12,825
Labor(rdc>n   1/                                                   370
Hindquarters          4,342,000 kg @ 4.20 Cr$/kg =   18,236                            Social Costs 2                                                      167
Cattlo 3/                                                       37.300
Edible Offal          1,044,000 kg 5 3.30 Cr$/kg =    3,445                            Utilities                                                           160
Packing and FosngMatndq~l                                          210
Inedible Offal        1,218,000 kg @ 1.30 Cr$/kg =    1,584                            Transport Finished P       ats 4                                    229
Transport Livestock _/                                             104
hides                   835,000 kg @ 3.60 Cr$/kg -    3,006                            Repairs, 3saitent nce,and Miscellaneous                             200
Casings                 348,000 kg @ 4.60 Cr$/kg =    1,601                                                                                             38,740
Glands                    48,700 kg @30.00 Cr$/kg =    1,461                        Indirect Costs -
TOTAL                   42,158                        Administration Salaries                                             210
Social Costs                                                        90
Administration Costs                                               250
Maietenance                                                         50
Inslrance                                                           30
Miscellaneous                                                       30
660
1/ 120 persons
'2/ 45% of the salary cost.
B/ 8ased on average purchase price of Cr$67  per arroba (=10 kg) dressed carcass.
_/  Average 100 kb  @ Cr$0.20 /tem km.
_/  Average 50 kO     @  Cr$0.06/cattle km.
6/  Oaring year 1 the indirect costs consist only of salaries, social costs,
insurance, and miscellaneous.
March 25, 1973



MODEL A:  Bef Processing Plant;
Cipa-ity, 200 -ead/day;
Production f r Domestc. Yacknse
;Cna 7 '0l39) i 
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6        Year 7      Year               9 Yeas 0  Year 10      Year il       Year 12         Year 13-15
Percent otilteacion                    0            60           80          1000         100          1.0          110          100           to0           100            100            100             100
Financial gate of ORtane Analysis
Investment                                           5,303      5,30k           -            -            -                         -            -             -             -             -               -               -
Grese Revenue                                          -        25,295         33,730     42,158       42,158      42.458      4.,158       42,158        42,158         42,158        42,158          42,158           42,158
Operating Cast - Direct                                -       23,240          30,990     38,740        38,740     38,040      30,740       38,740        38,740         38,0742       38,158           38,740          38,740
- Indirect                             360        660             660        660           660        440         660          660           660            660           660              660            66O
- Total                                360     23,900         31,650      39,400       39,400      39,400      39,400       39,400        39,400         39,400        39,400          39,400           39,400
ICR 1/                                                 -          437             583         728          728         728         728         728            728          728            728              728             728
operating Profit                                      (360)        958          1,497       2,030        2,030       2,030       2,030        2,030         2,030         2,030         2.030            2,030            2,030
Depresiation (10 yeses)                                -           530          1,060       1,060        1,060       i,060       1,060        1,060         1,060         1,060         1,060             535               -
Interest on PBS5b-l.an..                               135         325            420        420           367         315         263          210           157           105            32              -
Net Prnfit before Tas                                 (495)        103             17         550          603         655         707          760           813           865           918           1,495             2,030
Inco=e Ta-3/                                           -            30              5         165          180         196         212          228           244           259           275             448               610
Net Profit after Tan                                  (495)         73             12         385          423         459         495          532           569           606            643          1,047             1,420
Net Cash Plow                                       (5,663)    (4,374)          1,492       1,865        1,800       1,834       1,818        4,102         1,726         1371           1,755          1,582             1,420
S-r-es and Uses of FPnda
S..r..a
PB Sabloan4/                                   4,162       4,242             -            -
Slb-borrower's Centribhtion                     1,636      1,060
Sob-total                            5,798      5,302             -            -
Cash Flow fron Operations                       -          928          1,492       1,865        1,850       1,834       1,818        1,802         1,786          1,771         1,755           1,582            1,420
Total                                5,798      6,230           1,492       1,865        1,850       1,834       1,818       1,802          1,786         1,771         1,755           1,522             1,420
Uses
Invest- ent                                    5,663       5,302             -            -         -            -             -            -             -             -             -               ..
Debt Service
Intera  6/                                    135         325            420         420          367         315         263          210           157            105            52
Principal 6/                                  -           -              -         1,051        1,051       1,051       1,051        1,050         1,050          ],050         1,050
Total                                5,798      5,627             420       1,471        1,418       1,366       1,314        1,260         1,207         1,155         1,102              -                -
Cash Position
Annual                                     (1,636)        603          1,072         394          432         468         504          542           579            616           653           1,582            1,420
Cumulati-e                                 (1,636)    (1,033)              39        433          865       1,333       1,837        2,379         2,958          3,574         4,227          5,809             7,229
Finaccial Rate of Retnee; 13%
1/  15% of valne added foc  domestic cacket: 0.15 (Gross RInene - Cattle Cost).
T/  Interest eate, 5% in real value.  Includes  -ommit-ent fee.
3/  Serene tan,30% an profit fran domestic sale.
7; Slb-loon807% of total invsatment, encladieg land.
5/  Includes operating rost of year 1.
6/  Repayment over 10 yearn, including two years' grace.
*                                                                                                             * ,                                                                                         '



ANNEX 2
Page 23
MODEL B: Be-f Processing Plant;
Capacity, 400 head/day;
Prodaction for Loeawstie Market
Investment Costs
Capacity, Utilitatio.N and Annual Prodaetion                                                                                                        Total Cost             Foreign Exchange Conpone
Moj-muss Anoant of tattlel/ per Day                      400
LCod                                               200                        -
Anoant of Working Day per Year                           260
Civil Warks:
A-e-age Total Itilistasis due to Seasonal                 67A
S laseontians                                                                                            Land P eparation and Roode                      700                       lt              70
Pln-t Failities j/                            2,060                       10             206
A.oant t of slaght-red Cattle  pee Year              69,600                                                   By-produti  R-end-rina                           118                       If              12
2/                                                                                               Sanitary   lghtoer 21                           198                       10              20
tressed Beef                                        S16,700 tono                                              Laundry                                           63                       10              6
Engine Ron                                       75                       10               8
Ediblt Offal3/                                         2,088 tons                                             Sailer House                                      75                       10               8
3/                                                                                            WarlshapW                                         90                       10               9
-nedible Offal-                                       2,436 tons                                              staff A-enities and Ac5inintrarian  3/          200                       it              31
Optional Mean                                   500                       10              50
Hides                                                  1,670 tona                                             Wat-r and Sewogo Syste 8o00                                                 8             64
Slab-total Civil Workn:       4,984                       la             414
1/  Average SiveweI ght, 460 kg                                                                            Eqatpnent:
2/  Avers..   weight, 240 kg
3/  Edible offal, about 30 kg/animal                                                                          Meat and Offal Processing Equipment           2,800                       20             560
- Iredible offal processed, aboot 35 kg/ani=al                                                            Reftigertin  Eqaip-t                            720                       20             144
Stoat Plant                                     200                       25              50
Eloctrical Intallment and Teansf-rners          240                       25              72
Vehicles                                        120                       25              30
Water Storage and T-cat-ot                      300                       15              45
Miaiotonnce lMacb:nery                           60                       15               9
Laocdry                                          40                       10               4
Office Eqaipment                                100                       25              25
Oii-eiloae-a                                    10O                       20             -20
lob-total Equip-ot             4,880                       2C             959
te-tallation                                     1,700                       10             170
Feesibility Study and Enin-er-ing                   800                       -              _
,  Contingearios, 107.                            1,256                      13             163
/  4,900 ___                TOTAL               13.820                      13          a_c
2/ 200 =2
Incon -/  600 n2
(Cr$ '000 P-r year)                                                                                         r    pera       year
For-ero-t-rr            8,016,000 kg 0 3.20 Cr$/kg  -  25,650                                              vi-eot Costa
Hsindquartees           8,684,000 kg @ 4.20 Co//kg  =  36,470                                                 Scial (pradse5in) j/                                                754
S..i.l C.St                                      ~~~~~~~~~~340
Edible  tffa1           2,088,000 kg ' 3530 CrS/kg          6,890                                             Cottle 32                                                       74,190
Stilitie                                                           320
ITedible Offal          2,426,000 kg 0 1.30 Cr$/kg          3,170                                            PTaking and Pre-sing Mate;a1                                        420
Transport Floiohed Products-                                       454
Hfdes                   1,670,000 kg @ 3.60 Cr$/kg  =   6,018                                                 T-ran,part Live-t-k_b/                                             292
Sopaira, Miaitooance,ad Miic-llno--                                400
Casines                    696,000 kg @ 4.60 Cr$/kg         3,200                                                                                                                --eal o
Glands                      95,000kg @30.00 Cr$/kg                                                                                       T 2,850
TOTAL              9424                                           Tdieco Costs _/
Adninistration Salaries                                         365
Soci.a  Cant                                                    165
4Adiragei at-an Casts                                           450
laiat-na-                                                       100
TOTAL                                 1,100
l/  230 persons
72/  457. of rho salary  -at.
3/  .ased on overage p-rhkas  priro of Cr067  pet -rob. (=15 kg) dressed onreasa
/Avers go 10  kn 0 Cr00.20  tan ka.
5/  Average 70 ka @ Cr$0.06  cattle kn.
D/ Oaring year 4 the indirect costs consist only of salaries, social costs,
insuronce, and =iscellaneous.
.           Msa-h 25, 1973



MODEL B:  icr: Scacessieg PLant;
Copatiry, 4th head/day;
Prtcdnictia f-ox .omestic Mrket
"                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FiSnanca l Aoa loties
Year I         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5        Year 6         Yerr 7         Bear 8          Year 9         Year 10          Year 11        Year 12      Year 13-15
vi                    P rcent Utilizatian                     0              60            80             100            100           10             100             140G           10000 0                         100             100            100
Financial Rate ef Return Aeslysie
Investment                                          6,910          6,910            -              -              -             -              -               -              -              -                -              -               -
Gress Reve-e.                                         -           50,550         67,390         84,240         84,240        84,240         84,240         84,240          84,241.        84,240           84,240         84,240          84,240
Operstieg Cast - Direct                               -          46,540          62,050         77,570         77,570        77,570         77,505          77,510         77,570         77,570           77,570         77,570          77,570
- Indirect                           640           1,190          1,190          1,190          1,190         1,190          1,190          1,190           1,190          1,190            1,190          1,190           1,190
- letal                              640         47,730         63,240          78,760         78,760        78,760         78,760         78,760         78,760          78,760           78,760         78,760         78,760
ICM-1'                                                -              870          1,160          1,450          1,450         1,450          1,450           1,450          1,450          1,450            1,450          1,450           1,450
Operating Pr-fit                                     (640)         1,950          2,981          4,030          4,030         4,030          4,030          4,030           4,030          4,030            4,030          4,030           4,030
Deprecietion (10 yenes)                               -              691          1,382          1,382          1,382          1,382          1,382          1,382          1,382           1,382           1,382             691            -
Interest en PB Sub-lean                               175            420            545            545            477           408            340             272            204            136               68             -              -
Net Prafit befere Tex                                (815)           839          1,054          2,103          2,171         2,240          2,308           2,376          2,444          2,512            2,580          3,339           4,030
Incoes  Tae  -                                        -              251            316            630            651           670            690             712            733             753             774          1,001           1,200
Net Profit sftar T.n                                 (815)           588            738          1,473          1,520          1,570          1,618          1,664          1,711           1,759           1,806           2,338          2,830
Net Cash Flo                                       (7,550)        (5,211)         2,665          3,400          3,379         3,360           3,340          3,318          3,297           3,277           3,256          3,029           2,830
Decrees and Unes.f Fends
S.ur-.               4/
P8 Sub-lan-                               5,368         5,528             -              -              -             -              -                      -                      -                _              _              _
Sub brrower 's Cantribhtion -              2,357         1,382
Shb terol                           7,725         6,910             -              -              -             -              -               -              -               -               -               -              -
Cash Flw fran Operationu                    -           1,699          2,665           3,400          3,379         3,360          3,340          3,318           3,297          3,277            3,256          3,029           2,830
Total                                7,725         8,609          2,665          3,400          3,379         3,360          3,340           3,318          3,297           3,277           3,256           3,029          2,830
Investment                                 7,550         6,910            -              -               -             -              -
Debt Service
Interest  6/                             175           420            545            545            477           408             340            272            204             136              68
Principal -                              -             -              -            1,362          1,362          1,362         1,362           1,362          1,362           1,362           1,362
Tatal                                7,725         7,330            545          1,907          1,839         1,770           1,702          1,634          1,566           1,499           1,430             -              -
Cseh Ponition -  Annual                             (2,357)        1,079          2,120          1,493          1,540          1,590          1,638          1,684          1,731           1,779            1,826          3,029          2,830
Cumulative                        (2,357)      (1,078)          1,042          2,535          4,075         5,665          7,303           8,987         10,718         12,497           14,323         17,352          20,182
Fijancial Rate of Return: 207%
1/  15% of value added for domestic market: 0.15 (Gross Rev-e,e - Cattle Cont).
2/  Internst rste,.5% is real calu.  Inclades  -rait-ment fee.
3/  In-oe tax,30% on profit from domestic uale.
4/  Sub-loan,807 of  ortl ijvestenrt, exclading land.
3/ Includes operating cant of year 1.
6/  Repaymeat over 10 years, including tla years  grace.
March 25, 1973.
0                          '             5                                                                      0                                                                                   I '@



ANNEX 2
Page 25
MDDEL C: Beef Processing Plant;Capacity,400 head/day;
Production for Domestic and Export Markets
Investment Costs
Capacity, Utilization and Annual Production                                                                                 (Cro  000)
Total Cost      PereiT Exhange(Cinpenet
Capacity and Utiliation                                                                       Land                                               200               -               -
Maxiuan Amount of cattle - per Day                        400                            Civil Works:
Amount of Working  Days per Year                          260                                 Land Preparation apd Roads                     700              10              70
Plant Facilities 1                          2,500              10              252
Average Total utilizatioc doe to                                                              By-products Rendering                          117              10              12
Seeosnel lluctuations                                 67 7.                             Sanitary Slaughter 2                           200              10              20
Laundry                                         63             10                6
Acocut of Slaughtered Cattle per Year                  69,600                                 Engine Ronm                                    100             10               10
Boiler house                                    75             10                8
Workshop                                       100             10               10
Staff Awenities and Adminiatration 3/         410              10               41
Caport about 20% of total production of dressed beef an                                            Optional Areeas                                So               10              50
deepfroten quarters and meat c.ts. j/                                                             Water and Sewage System                        800               S              64
Sub-total Civil Works            5,565              10              543
Dreased Beef                                                 16,700 tons                       Equipment:
tdibli Offal -/                                               2,060 tons                           Meat and Offal Processing Equipment          3,500       -      20             700
4/                                                                                  Refrigeration Equipmeet                     2,620              20              524
inedible Offal                                               2,436 tone                            Steam Plant                                    200              25              50
Electrical Installation and Trsnaformera  340                  30              102
IHidee                                                        1,670 tone                           Vehicles                                       120              25               30
Water Storage and Treatment                   300              15               45
Maintenance Machinery                           60             159
Laundry                                        40              10                4
Office Equipment                              100              25               25
Misenllaneous                                  100             20               20
1/  Average liveweight, 460kg.                                                                                S     t      u      t0                               20            ,0
2/  Weight of Bone,about   277.                                                                               sub-total Equipment               7,380              20           1,509
3/  Average Weight,         240 kg
4/  Edible Offal,about 30 kg/animal                                                           Installation                                      2,500              10             250
Icedible Offal precessed,  bout 35 kg/animel                                              FPasibility Study and Engineering                1,000              -
C-ntingencies,10%                                1,665              14             233
18,310              14           2,535
2/ 300
2/ 250 2m
Income                                                                                              Operatir;  Costs
(Cr5 '000 per year)                                                                                       (Cr$ '000 per year)
Direct Costs:
Forequarters              6,413,000 kg @ 3.20 Cr$/kg    =   20,520
taker (prodaction) j/                                          950
hindq-arters              6,947,000 kg @ 4.20    "         =   29,170                              Social Cost 2/                                                  430
Meann cats and Frozen                                                                              Cattle 3.1                                                  74,590
Qoerters EPort. 1/        2,890,000 kg @ 5.60 zl           .   16,180                              Utilities                                                      530
-        '   '                                                                  Packing and Processing Materiql                                 720
Edible Offal              2,060,000 kg @ 3.30    "         =    6,800                              Transport Finished Products Al                                 565
Storage and Handling in Rabour of Export Products              250
Inedible Offal            2,436,000 kg @ 1.30              =    3,170                              Transport Livestock .5                                         295
Repairs, Maintenance and Miscellaneous                         500
Ride.                     1,670,000 kg 0 3.60    "         =    6,010
Interest en Working Capital (meat in storage)                      190
Casings                     696,000 kg @ 4.60              =    3,200
79,020
Glands                        95,000 kg @ 30,00   "        -    2.850 850020
Indirect Coststm
Total                         87,900
Administration Salaries                                        410
Social Costs                                                   205
Administration Costs                                           500
1/ 50% neat cots and 50% frosen quarters.                                                          Maintenance                                                    125
2/ Cr$6.06 per kilo minus 77. fee for broker.                                                      Insurance                                                        75
Miscellaneous                                                   70
1,460
1/ 300 persons
i/  45% of the salary cast,
2/ Based an average purchase price of Cr$67 per arroba (-15 kg)
dressed carcass.
4/  Average 100 km Q Cr$0.20  tan kn.
/l  Average 70 km @ Cr$0.06  cattle km.
6/  During year l,ths indirect costs cousist only of salaries,
eccisl cant, insurance,and miscellaneous.
March 25, 1973
0



MODEL C;  Beef Processing Plant;
Capacity. 400 head/day;
Production for Domestic end E.o-rt Market
a                                                                                                                      P sFancial Analysis
(Cr5 '000)
Year I       Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5        Year 6         Year 7         Year 8         Year 9         Year 10       Year 11        Year 12       Year 13-15
Percest Utilieation                   0            40            80             100            100            100            100           1000             00            10            100            100            100
Fioancial Rate of Return Analysis
Investment                                       9,155         9.155            -              -              -              -              -             -               -              -              -              -              -
Gross Revenge                                        -        35,160         70,320         87,900         87,900         87,900         87,900        87,900         87,900         87,900         87,900          87,900         87,900
Operating Cost - Direct                              -        31,680         63,220         79,020         79,020         79,020        79,020         79,020         79,020          79,020         79,020         79,020         79,020
- Indirect                          760        1,460          1,460          1,460          1,460          1,460          1,460         1,460           1,460          1,460          1,460          1,460          1,460
- Total                             760       33,140         64,680         80,480         80,480         80,480        80,480         80,480         80,480          80,480         80,480         80,480         80,480
ICM l                                                -           510          1,020          1,280          1,280         1,280          1,280          1,280          1,280          1,280           1,280          1,280          1,280
Cperating Profit                                   (760)        1,510         4,620          6,140          6,140          6,140          6,140         6,140          6,140           6,140          6,140          6,140          6,140
Deprecietion (10 years)                              -           915          1,831          1,831          1,831          1,831          1,831         1,831           1,831          1,831          1,831            916            -
Interest as PB Duboas. -                            233          559            724            724            634           543            453            362             272            181             90            -              -
Net Profit before Tax                              (993)           36         2,065          3,585          3,675          3,766          3,856         3,947          4,037          4,128           4,219          5,224          6,140
Income Teax/                                         -             12           278            554            573           590            607            626            645             663            681            880          1,056
Net Profit after Tea                               (993)           24         1,787          3,031          3,102          3,176          3,249         3,321           3,392-         3,465          3,538          4,344          5,084
Net Cash Flow                                    (9,915)      (7,657)         4,062          5,586          5,567          5,550          5,533         5,514           5,495         5,477           5,459          5,260          5,089
Saurces and Uses of Funds
Sources
SaurnSb1                                       7,164         7,324            -             -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -               -
PB  Sob-loan -               5               ,6            ,2
Sab-borrower's Costribution-                2,984         1,831
Sab totel                            10,148        9,155            -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -              -               -
Cash Flow fr- Operati.ss                      -           1,498          4,062          5,586         5,567          5,550          5,533          5,514          5,495          5,477          5,459          5,260           5,084
Total                                10,148        10,653         4,062          5,586          5,567          5,550          5,533          5,514          5,495          5,477          5,459          5,260          5,084
Uses
vsgeateent                                  9,915         9,135            -              -             -              -              -              -              -
Debt Nervice
Intereat                                   233           559            724            724           634            543            453            362            272            181             90
Principal _/                               -             -              -            1,811         1,811          1,811          1,811          1,811          1,811          1,811          1,811
Tetn1                                10,148        9,714             724         2,535          2,445          2,354          2,264          2,173          2,083          1,992          1,901            -               -
Cash Position - Aennua                           (2,984)          939         3,338          3,051          3,122         ,1_96           3,269         3,341          3,412          3,485           3,558          5,260          5,084
- Cua,lative                      (2,984)      (2,045)          1,293         4,344          7,466         10,662         13,931         17,272        20,684          24,169         27.727         32,987         38,071
Tinan.iel Rate of Return 247
1/  15% of valse  dded  for doeatlc market: 0,15 (Grae R-vanue - Cattle Coat).
2/  Iotereat rate 5% in real vl1e.  Inncudes  -oitment fee,
3/  Insce ten  30% an profit fr- domestic els..
4/  Nabi.an  80% of total investment, encludig land
5/ Includes eperating n, t of year I
6/ Repayment over 10 years, including twa years' grace.
*                          ,    .



*   C.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CD.
CD                           ,                           CCC  CCCC               V            -                                                     .CIC-V                            CCCC                CCC       
CD       CC   CD    -   CC   C                                                                                           a         a             CDCD       2       -C  CC
CD  -     CD                                                                                                             CD   CD.
-CCCCJ                      0-0                                                                                                                                                                           2
CD   CC   'CD  'C                                                           ',CCCC                             CD
CC                                                                 CCCCD                                   a    C      OCD                            a
*   CD                                          a    CC                                                                QCCCCCCC                            CCC  a    CD        CD
0DC                                        CO   CDCC    CC                                                                                                DC  CC  CD    ,0                  LCD    CD
'-CO                                       C              CC                                                                                               -          IC    -C
CDCC                                                      CCCCC
CCC,                                                      CD                                                           CCC-CC-C                                                         a    OD    CC
CC  CC                                                                                                                             a   0CC    a
a                                                                                                                                   CD  CDCC
C-CD                                                                                                                      DCCO                                                          CD      CC  CD
CDCD-                                                                                                                                                                                    a      CD  'CC
CD
as                               aL4'-C,.                 a                          CCC                                                                                                CD      CD  CD
-   '4  '4      a    a    CCC                         -CC-                                DCCDV-
a    C    4   Co   a    a
DC                       a         a    o         a
O   a         a         a    a                          CCC
C   C    0   C   a    a   a                             CC-C
CCDCD                            C   C      C  a    a   a                              CC
CD                                                                                   0CC
CD                          a   -C      a   CD   O*   a         a                   CCCC                                                                                               a       DO
CC                      CO   a   oo   a   CO   a   DC                             D
CCC  Ca   Ca  Ca   CCC   Ca  Ca      Ca   Ca            -CC                                                                                                  Cj                         CC
DC CDflflDCC                                            CD
o                                                                                                                                                                             a                -
CC                         CC   C    (4   a   C-C   a   a
a                           0                                                                                                                                                  CD
CD                               V-   a    COC  CC
CD                          C   a    C   CO  CO   a   a
-C                       a                                                                                                                         CD
CCC  CO  CC  CCC         a    DCC                                                                                        C-C  0-  CC   a           a         a
CC  CC    C   I    CC   CC   CC                                                                                          CC   CCC       a         CD        CO
a    a-  CO   C          CD        a    a      a    a
Ca   I                                                                                                                          CC  CC          0         CD                                               CO
Do   C           a         a         a      a    -                                                                                    CD  CD  CD         CD                                                 a
C C- I-CDCOCCV-aOa                                                                                                                                       CD
C-                                                                                                                                                                                                a
a   I-C   a    a   a    a   a   a
0   IC  -C         a    CD
CC a C a a a a a a
It
IC-CaIaI--        CC  CCC   a                                     CC                                     a    CC                         255
-OCa-CCa    a              a CO-C   aaaCCCoCC                                                CC  CC  CD                                     C                                       CC  CD                          CDCD.CD
aC-C-C-Ca               D-CDEThCCCC    a          a CD-C   a-CCDCD    CDCD                                            a   CD   a          0COaC   aCCOa                        a-CCCCaCCC--C-CD-CDCC    0    CD-                            CDCD CC
<CCCDaa                 -CCDD-CCCDCC   -C          a-CD         CD-CC-CC-C  a                       CCa   a           a   a   -C          aaCDCDCDCDaaCC  CCCaCD                CDCDaCDCDCDCDa-aCD            -                              COCa CO
CDCDCDCCa               CCCCCCCC-CC-C-  CD         CD-CCCDC0V-aaDD-CD                               CCaaa              CC  V-               CDaCCCDCDCOCCDC 0                    aaC--CC  CCDCD
DD-CCD                       aCDCD    CC           -CC--DCD-C-C-C-CO0CDCD                           -Ca-Ca             a    CD-  -         CCDCDCDCDCCCC    -C aaCD              CDD-aV-C-C--CDC--CDCD  CD-  CD2                              CC
CDCDCD.CC                  CDCD-Caa   a            CDCD-CDaCCC-CCaC--CD         CC                 DCaaaI             CD   a   CD         CD-COCCDCCD    CD-CD   -C             -CCCa   CDCC-CC'Da
DCDCCC   a              a-COO       CD             CDCDCDCCCDCDCCCCCC-ICC.C                        CC                  0   C    a          -CD-CCD    a-C   CO CD-Ca               CC   CCCCDCDCC    a   DC                                  CD
CDCD                    CDCCCDaCCa    CC           a-  DCDC   CC  CDa-D¶-a                            CCCCCD I         C   a   a          a   -40-CCCDC--OCD    CD              -CCC> 0        CC-CCDCDDC    a
-CaCD              CDCD                             C-CCCDaCDCC    -Ca                         aCCCCC.C           a   CC  CC          CDCC   CDain,-CDC  CCC.               CDC    CDC       CCCCDCD    CD                               CC
a-    a                CD  CDCDCDCD   CD          -CCO      CC  CD       CDDC                     a                   CD       CC         0,0    0-C    CD-CCD  CC              a    CDCDCC         CCCCa   --
CC        CD-Craa-CCCD         a-C                                          CD  CO              00    CD-C          CCCD                C- CD  -CDC   -Ca-C-CD                                      CO
3CDCD                                  CD          -C-a-C  a-    laO
DC                 -    a              CD.   CDCD        aaCOC-C,           CO-Ca   CD          CDC-C-D                                   CC
CDCD               CD    CC                    CCDCCCDO               -4                       a                  a   CC                       CO         CD  CO            CDCDa   CD    CD  -CCC
CC  CC              C,aCD-CCDDD             CC                     CC             DCC   a   a         a           CCCCD        CCDDC        -C   CCC'--           CCCOaa                                       CC
22-                                                                                                                                    '           C-
aCDD-C-CCD-C            a                                          a   a          a       CD  CD     CD       DDC       -C  CDCDCD            CDCCDD--CO
DCCCD                      CC  DO                CCC-CDCOV-CD           a                      a              a                   a           CDCC    a    COO         V-  CO                 OCDCC                                       a
CaCa                           CC  CD              C--CDCDaC--CDCD          CC                                             CD         C      CD   CC0   CD  CDCDDCD            CD                aOC
CC                      CD  CO              CCCDC-CCCCD              -C                     a                        CC                    C-a   -   C CD-C         CC        CD           CDCD  Ca
ODD-CD                          a   CD             DCCCD          DC                                                        -C.                           a   COO-C        CC  DCC  CC            CIC  -C--C
DDDCCCC                        CD  DC                 CDID  aa--            a          C                                             a           CDC-C  CD   OoCD         a   CC   CC            Iaa    0                                    DC
-a-CCCCDDCD                          a              CC  -a--    OCD           -a-        CCC        a                        CO       CC           CDCC   CC  -CC--CD       CD                     -a-o   CL                                   a
CaCDCD CD CD-C OCCCO 0 C CC CD a-COO -a C- CC CD
*    aa                                             00        CCCC                       CCCJ-C                             CO                            0    CoCo              CD   a                   CCC
a a CD- C--CC Ca C-C a a a o a a CC CC CC CC
a aD a -IDC o a CC - C CD
CCZ      CDCCCC                      CV-                                CD                      CD  CD        -Ca       <         o                   a
aO                                                  CCCD          CD                               CC                       0         CD                  CC
CDCDD                                               aCD       CC -a                                                                   a                                                                                                CD
a   CD                                              CDa           -                                 CD                     CO         C                              CCD              CD                                             CCCD
CDCCCD CD aa-DC 0 DC a CC CCCCC -- CD
C-CD
DUD     CCC                                   CC                                                     CD      a-C       a         a
-  CC                                              CD                                            DC                                                     CD      [CaD     -C        CC                                                CC
CD                                                  CD-C                                                                                                  CD        CC                 Ca                                            0CC
CC                                               C                                  DC         CC                                                    CD                                                                         Ca
2                                                                         5CC
-CO                                             CD                                                   'D                                                                            CC
a                                               a            C      a   a   a    CC                         -Ca-a        a   I a                    -Ca                   ICCO     CD
-C          D                                              - --        -   C                       --                    CCCa
CC          CC-C   CC  C-a-CaD-               aaaaoa-C-C-CC a               CCC--OaC--aa   '4-C a-C             a        CDC
CCV-  a- -C -C '4 -Caaaa-Ca--Caaa    aaaaO-a-Caaa Ca                                               a         a a
CC                                                                                                         CC a    a   C    a    -C   -CCOCOCOCO-CC-Ca-a-C              CC l-CC-COaaaaa  CC                    C
CD                                        CC                       4--                                                                                                                                                  CC
Ca
C           D a   C-'aa-4'4 a             0   '4    C   a- CCC  a  -Ca-                                   C a
Ca   aCD'4aCO                a aaa  -Ca-CC-C-C-CO                                              C                    aI-Ca-Caaoaa
a                             0aa   a aaaa-Coaa                                   C  -CO
aa                     a oa  -C-C-C-Ca-a-C                                                                                                                                                         -CC
CO                                       aa
a                                                                                                          C                      a
Ca-    C-             -                   -a-Ca-            a   -                      C--                CC
a  a    a  a -Caaa-a--Caa'4a                                  aaaa--Caaa -Ca                            a                                            CC



DIILpL D:   al  Psocessirl Planst;
(C,,.-,sy, 8,0 0,,scdin;
__   Pr     Ta.r  0o   satre   ad Pexarl Markets
5                                                                                                                             r1 i ,enua I ,Arnal-sti.
°                                                                                                (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cr 0  'tcn)
Percent Utiliz-tlon                    Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Y-r          Year 5       Lar 6        Yara 7       Taar 8       Year 9       Year 10       Yea  11        Yar i2        Year 13-15
G 40         80           100          1O01       - 10           100          100          100          100            100           100              00
Finantial Rate of Return Analysis
Investment                                            18,580       12,385         -            -            -                                                   -                           -                             -
Gress Revenue                                           -          69,748      104,620      139,496      174,370       '14,370    174,370       174,370      174,370      174,370       174,370        174,370       174,370
Operating Cast - Direct                                 -          63,538       95,295      12i/,060     158,825       ';8,875    15U,825       110,075      158,5        1e58,825      158,825        158,825       158,825
- Indirect                              -           2,330        2,330        2,330        2,330         2,310       2,330        2,330        2,33r        2,330         2,330          2,330         2,330
- Totel                                 -         65,868        97,625      129,39C      161,155       161,155    161,155       161,155      161,155      161,155       161,155        161,155       161,155
iC-                                                     -             738        1,107        1,476        1,845         1,845       1,845        1,845        1,845        1,845          1,845         1,845         1,845
Operating crefit                                                    3,142        5,888        8,630       11,370        11,370      11,370       11,370       11,370       11,370         11,370        11,370        11,370
Depeeciation (10 years)                                 -           1,85S        3,097        3,097        3,097         3,097       3,097        3,097        3,097        3,097          3,097         1,239             -
Interest an PB Sub-lotn                                  452        1,004        1,227        1,227        1,073           920         767          013          460           307           153          -                -
Net Pr-fit befece TIn                                   (452)         280        1,564        4,306        7,200         7,353       7,506        7,660        7,813        7,966          8,120         8,273        11,370
3/
I-n-me Tar                                              -              84          469        1,292        2,160         2,206       2,252        2:2S8        2,344        2,390          2,436         2,482         3,411
Net PrFeit after Tan                                    (452)         196        1,096        3,014        5,040         5,147       5,214        5,362        5,469        5,576          5,684         5,791         7,959
Net Cash Flr                                        (18,580)      (9,327)       5,419        7,338        9,210         9,164       9,118        9,072        9,020        8,980          8,934         8,888         7,959
Sane-es and Uses of Fundn
ScPB Sub-lo                                           14,624        9,908                      -            -            -                         -            -            -                     -              -
8ub-borrower's Contributi-n                      4,408        2,477          -            -            _            _            -            _            -            _             _
Sab-total                                 19,032       12,385
C-nh FlPn  fIra  Opereti-ns                       -           3,058        5,419        7,338        9,210          9,164      9,118         9,072        9,026        8,980         8,934          8,888         7,959
Total                                     19,032       15,443        5,419        7,338        9,210         9,164       9,118        9,072        9,126         8,980         8,934         8,888          7,959
Unes
Investsnent                                     18,580       12,385          -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -              -             -               -
Debt Service
Interest                                        452        1,004        1,227       1,227         1,073           920          767         613           460          307           153           -               _
Pricipal5-                                     -            -            -          3,066         3,066          3,066      3,066         3,066        3,066        3,066         1,070
Totel                                     19,032       13,389        1,227       4,293         4,139         3,986       3,833        3,679         3,526        3,373         3,2235
Caeh P-sitien- Anneal                                   (452)       2,054        4,192       3,045         5,071         5,178       5,285        5,373        5,500         5,607         5,711         8,888          7 9596/
- Cumulative                             (452)       1,602        5,794       8,839        13,910        19,088      24,373       29,766       35,266       40,873         46,584        55,472        79,349r
Financial Rate af Retun: 231,
1/  15/% a value added for da,eetic ma.ket: 0.13 (Grass Revenue  - Cattle Cont).
2/ Interest r-te, 57, in reel val-e. Includescemeir-ent fee.
3/   acome Tae  30i an prefit frmm domesti  sale.,
4/  Sub-Ieee 801, ef tetal invent.ent, enaleding lend.
5/ Repayment ever 10 years, includiag twa years' graae.
6/ At end of year 15.
*  I         A                                                                        *                                                                                     '             *             *



ANNEX 2
Page 29
MODEL E: Refrigerated Tracking Company
Capacity and Utilization                                                                Investment Costs
(Cr1 '000)
Total Cost      Foreign Exchange Component
(7 )           (Asst)
Amount - Mechanically Rofrigerated Trailers 1/                                    5                    Land                                        10             -                 -
Amount - Troctors                                                                 5                    Civil W,rke (administration bhilding) 120                  10                12
Capacity - E ach Trailer                                                         22 tonn               Tractors (5 units)                        740              25               18S
Average K ilometer per Truck                                                84,500 per year            Trailers (5 units)                        600              25               125
Average Utilizatioe                                                              70 %                  Mechanical Shop, Tonls                     80              IS                12
Economic Lifetime of Tractor and Trailer                                         10 yesrs                      Sub-total                       1,560              21               334
Freight Rate-                                                             Cr$ 0.20 /ton kh             Feasibility Study                           37             -                 -
Contingencies 10.                         159              21                33
Total                   1,746              21               367
Investmnot:  Three .nits the first year and two units in year 2.
1/ Able to keep the temperature at -30°C.
2/ BPsed as ingarmation from the project preparatin report
and calculated for a distance betwen 200 and 500 ke.
Operating Costs
(Cr$ '000 per year)
Cr$ per c,       Cr$ '000
^                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Unit  ____
Direct Costs
Diesel Fuci                                              0,403            170.25
Oil, Lubrication and Washing                             0.047             1985
Tires and Re.apping                                      0.437            184.60
Driver's Wages and Social Security                       0.209             88.30
Assistant Wages and social Security                      0.249            105.20
Wages of xsintenae.e Personnel                           0.062             26.20
Spare Parts and Haintenance saterialn                    0.150             63.40
Miscellaneous,including Toll                             0.024             10.00
S0b-total                           1.581            667.80
Interest an Wnrking Capital                                    0.035             14.60
1.616           682.40
Indirect Costs
Licenses                                                                    9.48
Insurance                                                                  50.00
Administration (including salaries)                                       150.00
209.48
March 25, 1973
0



ANNEX 2
Page 30
ItDEL E:  Refrigerated Trucking Company
Financial Analysis
(Cr5 '1000)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
Investment                                                           1,174      572        -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Cross Revenuel                                                        390   1,040   1,301        1,301     1,301      1,301     1,301     1,301      1,301     1,301
Operatinn lCsts:
Direct                                                          204      546       682       682       682        682       682        682       682        682
Indirect                                                        168      198      209        209       209        209       209       209        209       209
Total                                                 372      744      891       891        891       891        891       891        891       891
Operating Profit                                                         18     296      410        410       410        410       410       410        410       410
Depreciation  (10 years)                                                -       117      175        175       175        175       175       175        175       175
Interest os PB Srb-loon 2/                                              23       58       69         63        53         43        33         23        13         4
Net Profit before Tax                                                  (5)      121       166       172       182        192       202        212       222       231
Income Ta. 3/                                                           -        36       50         52        55        58         61        64         67        69
Net Profit after Tax                                                   (5)       85       116       120       127        134       141        148       155       162
Net Cash Flow                                                       (1,156)    (312)    360         358       355       352        349       346        343       341
Sources and Ustr of Foods
Sources
PB Sub-loan 4/                                                         931      458        -         -         -          -          -         -          -          -
Sub borrowers contribution                                             249      114        -         -
SOb total                                           1,180      572       -          -         -         -           _        _           -
Cash Flow from Operations                                               17      260      360        358       355        352       349       346        343       341
Total                                               1,197      832      360       358        355       352        349       346        343       341
Uses
Ine-stment                                                           1,174      572      -           -         -          -          -        -           -         -
Debt service:
Interest                                                           23        58       69        63         53        43        33         23        13          4
Principal                                                          -         -       133       198        198       198       198        198       198         68
Sub-total                                           1,197      630      202       261        251       241        231       221        211        7-
Cash Position
Annual                                                                (249)    202        158        97       104        111       118        125       132       269
Cnumlative                                                            (249)    (47)    205          302       406        517       635        760       892     1,161
FiPLancial Rate of Return; 14%
1/  About 50IO utilization of the fleet in year 1, about 807. in year 2.
2/  Interest rate,5, in real value.  Includes commitnent fee.
3/ Income ta.,307 on profit.
4/   Sob-loan, 80°. of in-estment cost, (excluding cost for land).  Repayment over eight years, including one year grace.
March 25, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 31
E. Investment Demand Under the Project
71.       The amount of long-term financing to be provided under the project
is based on estimates of investment needs over the project period. Estimates
were made by the consultants who prepared the project, in conjunction with
the Central Bank. On the basis of a sector survey and field analysis, they
estimated that the total investment requirements for beef processing are
Cr$2.2 billion (US$365 million). Taking into consideration these overall
needs, the consultants prepared a schedule of investments which were l:ikely
to be suitable for inclusion in the project and which were apt to be sub-
mitted to the participating banks for financing. This schedule totals
Cr$656 million (US$108 million), which is the amount included in the pro-
posed project.
72.       The consultants also compared their estimates with the investment
demand over the project period, as seen by the participating banks. Although
the requirement for beef processing, as measured by the banks (Cr$512 million),
is almost 25% less than that projected by the consultants (Cr$656 million), the
latter included amounts for cold storage and refrigerated transport, while
the figure presented by the banks is essentially for processing facilities.
Furthermore, when the data were collected in the second half of 1972, DIPOA
had completed its survey (to determine whether or not plants comply with the
new sanitary standards) only in the state of Rio Grande do Sul and was in
the process of completing its survey in Sao Paulo. Therefore, it would be
expected that the demand for long-term financing would increase as the sur-
veys were completed in each of the states and processors were informed of
the modifications that would be necessary to comply with the regulations.
(DIPOA approved 153 plans for plant modification or construction during
1972, with only the survey in Rio Grande do Sul having been completed.)
The consultants' projections take this factor into account.
73.       The following are project investments estimated by the consultants
and by the participating banks for the project period:
Consultants    Participating Banks
---Cr$ million-----------
Rio Grande do Sul                        208                 150
Santa Catarina                            -                   27
Parana                                    70                  52
Sao Paulo                                 88                  59
Mato Grosso                               57                  37
Goras                                     16                 61
Minas Gerais                              172                 79
Espirito Santo                            45                  35
Rio de Janeiro                            -                   13
656                512
Project Estimate                         656






Ampend=c 2-1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Procassing
Cattle Herd Mie3 and Type in 1971
Percentage Distribution
Herd Size          by Economic Function
Million   %  of      Beef     Dai       Mixed
Head     Total                (%%
Project Area
Center-West:
Goias                       9.3     11.0
Mato Grosso                 8.1      9.5
Sub-total                17.4     20.5        49        9        42
Southeast:
Minas Gerais               16.5     19.5
Sao Paulo                   8.7     10.3
Rio de Janeiro              1.8      2.1
Espirito Santo              1.4      1.7
Sub-total                28.5     33.6        39       17        44
South:
Rio Grande do Sul          11.8     13.9
Parana                      5.3      6.3
Santa Catarina              2.0      2.4
Sub-total                19.2     22.7        68       18         14
Total Project Area           65.1     76.8        50       15         35
Non-project Area
North                         1.9       2.3       72       12         16
Xprtheast                    17.6      20.9       45        14        41
Total Non-project Area       19.7     23.2        47       14         39
Total Brazil                 84.8    100.0        50       15         35
NOTE:    Totals may not equal sum of component due to rounding off.
Source:  CEPEN, The Brazilian Livestock Industry  (mimeographed draft,
January 1973).
liarch 6, 1973



EPA-ZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
0'.                                                      Beef Processing
- _ Fr;quency Distribu-v:;n o" Cattle rprv. in 1971
Center-              ~~~Total                         Total       Total
Center-   South-   South   Project   North   North-   Non-project   Brazil
WR^eest   east               Area               east         Area
---percent of total herd---------------------------
A.  Accomdinrg to Specialized .;ct'vity
Breeding                                 38.1       18.0       4.2     19.3        8.5    6.1          6.3         12.8
Raising                                   -          1.?      -         0.8        -       1.0         0.9          0.8
Fattening                                 -          3.0       -        1.3        0.4    3.0          2.8          1.5
Breeding and Raising                     40.0       42.4     37.9      40.4       60.6   49.6         50.7         46.6
Brecding and Fattening                    0.5        2.5       1.?      1.7        0.4    1.1          1.0          1.4
FffiEi0 sand Fattaning                    -          1.7      -         0.8        0.4    o.G          0.6          0.7
All Tnre- Activities                     21.4       30.7     56.2      35.7       29.7   33.6         37.7         35.8
Total Herd                        100.0      100.0    100.0          100.0  100.0  100.0       100.0         100.0
B. Accordinr, to Classes of Aninzals
Male and Female Calves                   20.9       17.5      17.1     18.3       18.7   19.0         19.0         18.5
loung Steers and Hieifers                17-3       1L.8      15.7     15.8       16.3   13.3         13.6         15.2
licifers                                  9.4        8.9      12.2     10.0       11.5   11.2         11.2         10.3
Steers                                    9.7       21.5      16.3     16.8       12.6   13.5         13.4         16.0
Cows                                     38.9       32.1     33.5      34-3       314.6   37.9        37.6         35.1
Bulls                                     2.5        1.7      2.1       2.0        2.2    2.3          2.3          2.1
Olhers                                    1.3        3.5      3.1       2.8   .     . I1    2.8        2.9          c.8
Tctal Herd                        100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0  100.0       100.0        100.0
Source. CEPEN, The Brazilian Livestock Industry. (mimeographed draft, January 1973j.



Appendix 2-3
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
-bef Prooessing
Cow/Thll Ratios, Cattle Birth Rates and Mortality Rates in 1971
Cow/Bull Ratios and Birth Rates
Cow/Bull  Ratio           Calving Rate of Cattle
Maxi.nm  Minimum  Average    Breeding    Annual    Birth
(numbctr of breedtng cows       Cows       Births     Rate
per bull)                 BC          AB       AB/BC
(I000'   (o00o0        (%)
Project Area                                                      head )      head)
Center-West                      19       13        17         6,786.6    3,647.1    53.7
Southeast                        21       13        19         9,130.4    5,021.7    55.0
South                            18        10       16         6,2429.5    3,282.6    51.1
Project Area Total             21       10        17        22,346.5  1L.951.4    53.5
Non-p)roject Area
North                            23        12       16           674.6       365.4    54.2
Northeast                        27        13        16        6,727.4    3,370.4    50.1
Non-project Area Total         27       12        16         7,L402.0    3,735.8    50.5
Brazil - Total                     27        10       17        29,748.5   15,687.2    52.7
'Mortality Rate Based On Niumber of Animals Which Die From Diseases or Accidents
Cattle Stock    Annual Deaths    Mortalitz Rate
Project Area                      (Q000 head)      (1000 head)            ( 
Center-West                        17,437.9           623.0                3.6
Southeast                          28,466.3           998.6               3.5
South                              19,224.3           727.4                3.8
Project Area Total            65,128.5         2,349.0               3.6
Non-project Area
North                               1,946.9           102.9                5.3
Northeast                          17,747.7           784.3                4.4
Non-project Area Total        19,694.6           887.2               1
Brazil - Total                                      3,236.2
SOURCE:  CEPEN, The Brazilian Livestock Industry (mimeographed draft, January 1973)
March 6, 1973



BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
Cattle Pasture Areas and Stocking Rates in 1971
All Pastures                  Natural Pastures           Artificial Pastures
As % of  Stocking  Rate       As %    Stocking  Rate       As %    Stocking  Rate
Area    Brazil's  Rainy    Dry        of all   Rainy    Dry        of all   Rainy    Dry
(million   Total   Season  Season   'astures  Season  Season   Pastures  Season  Season
ha)       (%T    ---ed/he              (%)    --(he adiaa)---Ted    (%     --(Thead/ A3---
Project Area
Center-West                 48.0      32.7     0.7       0.4       81.4     0.5      0.3        18.6     1.6       1.0
Southeast                   36.3      24.7      1.5      1.0       59.4     1.0      0.6        40.6     2.2       1.6
South                       23.0      15.6     0.9       0.7       89.5     0.7      0.5        10.5     3.0       2.4
Project Area Total       107.3      73.0     1.0       0.7       75.7     0.7      0.4       24.3      2.1       1.5
Non-proj3ct Area
North                        4.6       3.1      2.5      1.4       62.2     1.3      0.9        37.8     4.6       2.3
Northeast                   35.1      23.9     1.4       0.8       78.2     0.8      0.4       21.8      3.4       2.1
Non-Project
Area Total                39.7      24.0     1.5       0.8       76.3     0.8      0.4       23.7      3.6       2.1
Brazil - Total               147.0    100.0      1.4       0.9       72.6     0.8      0.5        27.4     2.9       1.8
Source                 CEPEN, The Brazilian Livestock Industry (mimeographed draft, January 1973).
a                   t                                  * a



*                                                                                                                                    0 *@
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
CD
BEEF PROCESSING
Beef - Head of Cattle Slaughtered and Carcass Weight, by Type of Abattoir
H
Municipal   3/            On-Farm, On-Site                       Total
Frigorificos l                 Matadouros 2/               Slaughterhouses -              SliughLerhouses                 (Including Others)
Year                                                                                                                                             Typer
'000     Carcass Weight        '000   Carcass Weight         '000    Carcass Weight          '000    Carcass Weight         t000    Caca.js   jjht
Head        '000    % of        Head     '000   7 of          Read       '000    % of        Head        '000    % of        Head          '000 tons
tons      Total        _     tons    Total         _ _       tons      Total                tons      Total       _
1952      1,264      251.0    25.8                                      3,803    618.4    63.4                                         6,003           974.6
1953      1,267      226.8    23.0                                      3,904    637.0    64.7                                         6,245           984.8
1954      1,145      212.6    21.2                                      3,925    649.6    64.7                                         6,171        1,003.4
1955      1,150      213.0    21.5                                      3,823    639.1    64.4                                         6,031           992.4
1956      1,239      225.8    21.0                                      4,070    684.5    63.6                                         6,574        1,076.8
1957      1,339      241.4    20.9                                      4,317    733.6    63.4                                         7,033        1,156.5
1958      1,513      268.8    20.9                                      4,638    683.8    53.2                                         7,857        1,285.2
1959      1,529      336.4    23.1        1,001   205.3    14.1         3,962    684.5    46.9          621    102.6         7.0       7,783         1,458.9
1960      1,376      313.1    23.0          979   202.4    14.9         3,548    603.3    44.4          587      96.7        7.1       7,207         1,359.2
1961      1,426      324.1    23.7        1,155   249.1    18.2         3,384    577.2    42.2          546      89.9        6.6       7,141         1,369.1
1962      1,229      277.5    20.5        1,280   285.9    21.1         3,382    590.1    43.5          538      91.2        6.7       6,989         1,356.0
1963      1,071      242.1    17.8        1,489   332.4    24.4         3,531    610.7    44.9           534      90.6       6.6       7,065         1,360.9
1964      1,077      235.7    16.4        1,818   395.7    27.5         3,621    624.7    43.5          535      90.7        6.3       7,523         1,437.2
1965      1,073      229.0    15.3        2,001   435.9    29.1         3,830    666.8    44.5          547       92.9       6.2       7,843         1,496.8
1966        801      180.0    12.4        2,058   441.1    30.4         3,811    663.9    45.7           565      96.4       6.6       7,608         1,452.3
1967        974      225.1    15.0        2,096   445.1    29.6         3,791    665.3    44.2           573      97.6       6.5       7,810         1,505.5
1968      1,215      276.1    16.3        2,636   557.8    32.9         3,862    676.4    39.9           589    100.0        5.9       8,732         1,694.4
1969      1,403      316.4    17.3        3,026   630.5    34.5         4,081    708.9    38.8           601    101.8        5.6       9,480         1,826.4
1/ Abattoirs with cold storage facilities.
2/ Abattoirs without cold storage facilities; no available data before 1959.
31 Include on-farm, on-site slaughterhouses up to 1958.
Source:   Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues.



BRAZIL
cr                                                    AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Pro,essinm
Quantitv and Value of Beef Productiton Acording to lIpes
H                                          Quanitie  i;ciuiJios)
Total (including
Unrefrigerated               Refrigerated                   Canned                     Charqui                 otheLrLyes) 
Year       Quantity       Value         Quantity      Value         Quantity      Value         QuantLty      Value       Quantity    Value
'000O  7., of                '000   %  of                1000   %  of                10oo    %  of                B300
tons     Total               tons    Total              tons    Total               tons_   Total                  tolns
1952     761      78.1     n.a.       126     12.9    n,a.       4.67      0.5     n,a.      82.4    8,5      n.a.           975       n.a.
1953     746      75.7    n.a.        138     14.0     n.a,      5.70      0.6     n.a.      94.0    9.5      n.a.           985       n.a.
1954     758      75.6    1,682       149     14.9      287      6.34      0M6     20c2      90,0    9oG       290         1,003      2,280
1955     752      75.8    1,986       154     15.5      375       6.78     0.7    24.5        79.9    8.0      299           992      2,685
1956     820      76.1    2,010       142     13,2      328      8.36      0.8     34c5      106.0    9,8      366         1,077      2,742
1957     900      77.8    2,038       167     14,4      348      5.71      0.5     19.6      81.5    7rO       255         1,157      2,666
1958     976      76.0    2,162       198     15,4      422      12,62     1.0     57.3      91,6    7.1       316         1,285      2,975
1959     982      77.9    2,195       166     13.2      344     29.57      2,3    156.8      70.8    5.6       266         1,261      2,999
1960     914      76.4    2,732       183     15,3      504     11.66      1.0     65.9      82.8    6,9       377         1,197      3,693
1961     876      73.4    2,779       220     18.4      661     19,41      1,6    130,1       71.0    6,0      320         1,193      3,904
1962     902      76.2    3,135       189     16.0      534      14.50     1,2     81.6       71,1    600      335         1,183      4,103
1963     903      75.8    3,011       203     17.0      505     12.18      1,0     55,7       66,9    5.6      297         1,192      3,886
1964     904      71.8    2,895       256     20.3      654      14.92     1,2     81.0       78.u    6.2      344         1,259       3,992
1965     967      73.7    3,031       251     19.1      688      22,55     1.7    128u8       62,3    4,7      282         1,312      4,159
1966     954      73.6    3,601       265     20,4      830      14.28     1,1     72.1      53,9    4,2       275         1,296      4,807
1967   1,003      74,4    3,483       259     19,2      735      12.33     0,9     63,8      60,9    4.5       276         1,349      4,604
1968   1,079      71.6    3,237       327     21.7      841      20.90     1.4    103,0       62.8    4.2       250        1,507       4,488
1969   1,110      67.8    3,129       426     26.0    1,050      19.40     1.2     91.0       61,0    3,7       241        1,638       4,575
1970                                                                                                                       1,664
Note:   Total figures starting 1959 do not match with those in Appendix 2-5,most probably due to inclusion under carcass weight
of certain meat products or by-products not included amng the principal meat types in this appendix. Official
statistical tables do not explain the difference,
SOURCE: Funddcao IBGE, An-uario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues.
*              '    '                                          0                                            



*     u                              ~~~~~~* 'I
BRAZIL
Ca                                           AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
-Beef Processing
CD                                 Domestic Consuaption and Export of Beef and Related Data
(carcass weight equivalent in '000 tons)
-J                                                                                                 Assumed
Annual Growt
Actual                   Projected 21
1.976
Bef
Produotiem                  1I 1i,830  -  -2,020            2,225 ...  2,450          5.0
Export                         140       150         305       425       545          18.5
Domestic Consumption         1,520     1,650       1,715     1,800     1,905           2.9
Per Capita (kg)               16.3      17.1        16.5      16.14     16.4         Nil
SxporlVProdhotimn (%             8.4       8.3        15.1      19.1      22.2
Pork and Poultry
Production                     850       920       1,160     1,350     1,570           8.0
Apparent Domestic Consumption  840       910       1,160     1,350      1,570          8.1
Per Capita (kg)                9.0       9.5        11.1      12.3      13.5         5.2
Beef, Pork,and Poultry
Domestic Consumtion          2,360     2,560       2,875     3,150      3,475          5.0
Per Capita (kg).             25.3       26.7        27.6      28.6      29.9         2.1
Total Population (millions)       93.2      95.8       104.1    110.0       116.2        2.8
/ Projections made by Economic Mission; see source below.
2/ Other assumptions include: (a) economy grows at 8.5% per year; (b) incone distribution does
not ahagp;  (c) income elasticity of demand for beef of 0.45; and (d) beef production grows
at a- mode*ate" rate.
Source: IBRD, The Economic and Social Development of Brazil, Vol. VI, 1972.



BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
Beef Exports
(quantities in 1,000 tons; total values in US$'000; average prices is USS/ton)
Fresh, Chilled and Frozen
Frozen Beef                          Chilled Beef                     Frozen and Chilled Veal                          Total
Year     Quantity    Total-       Average       Quantity    Total        Average       Quantity    Total       Average        Quantity    Total        Average
Value       Price                     Valuie       Price                     Value        Price                     Value        Price
1960        5.89       3,153       534.95          0.10          50       500.00         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.             -            -           -
1961       14.40       7,041       488.99          0.10          41      418.37           0.23         120      512.82          14.73       7,202      488.93
1962       11.42       4,814       421.61          1.12         422      376.11           0.41         221      537.71          12.95       5,457      421.39
1963        9.95       4,297       431.86          2.22         846       381.25          0.41         201      489.05          12.58       5,344       424.80
1964       18.10      10,992       607.19          0.22         123       566.82          0.68         451      659.36          19.00      11,566       608.74
1965       29.78      20,239       679.57          0.86         703       822.22          5.19       3,410      657.29          35.83      24,352       679.65
1966       15.36       9,888       643.54          0.80         450       563.20          4.63       2,594       560.50         20.79      12,932       622.03
1967        o.40       3,772       589.56          0.30         187       619.21          4.88       2,764      566.63          11.58       6,723       580.57
1968       26.03      13,420       515.54          2.04       1,074       527.25         11.18      5,682       508.32          39.25      20,176       514.04
1969       50.69      28,098       554.35          6.73       3,584      532.38          20.15      9,966       494.69          77.57     41,648        536.91
1970       92.91      63,162       679.83          4.34       5,524    1,273.99           1.06         864       811.27         98.31      69,551       707.46
1971         -            -           -             -            -           -             -            -           -           88.74      98,706    1,112.31
Canned Beef                Total-Fresh & Canned Beef & Veal    Dried, Smoked etc., Beef & Veal              Beef Exports as . of Total
Year     Quantity    Total        Average       Quantity    Total        Average       Quantity    Total        Average       Production in Same Category 1/
Value       Price                _    Value        Price                     Value        Price           Fresh Z/           Canned
1960        8.14       6,506       799.16           -            -           -           n.a.         n.a.        n.a.            0.55               69.80
1961       13.38      11,724       876.36         28.11      18,926       673.28          0.50         493       982.07           1.32               68.92
1962        8.94       6,898       771.67         21.89      12,355       564.42          1.76       1,980    1,112.45            1.15               61.66
1963        5.79       3,970       654.46         18.37       9,314       507.02          0.49         561    1,154.32            1.10              47.56
1964        7.40       5,388       728.11         26.40      16,954       642.20          0.22         252    1,140.27            1.58              49.61
1965       16.81      12,354       734.83         52.64      36,706       697.30          0.74         907    1,230.66            2.52               74.56
1966       10.51       8,062       767.15         31.30      20,994       670.73          1.70       2,116    1,241.06            1.33               73.57         x
1967        6.54       5,687       869.57         18.12      12,410       684.88          1.26       1,448    1,148.30            0.53              53.04          x
1968       14.54      12,627       868.73         53.79      32,803       609.83          5.08       6,499    1,279.58            2.00               69.53          ,
1969       15.24      13,130       861.49         92.81      54,778       590.22i         4.45       5,674    1,274.20            3.74               78.58
1970       16.55      15,788       953.84        114.86      85,338       742.97          0.47         679    1,432.49
1971       34.31      50,948    1,484.93         123.05    149,654    1,216.20
1972                                             174.00    200,000    1,149.43
1/ Ratio based on quantities.
2/ Includes frozen and chilled under exports and fresb and refrigerated under production.
Source: Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues.
April 25, 1973



Appendix 2-9
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
Chilled.and Frozen Beef-Comparison of FOB Export Prices
and. Domestic Wholesale Prices
FOB                      Domestic
Export Prices             lWholesale Prices          A/B
A                            B                     M
--------    (Current US$/ton)------------
1960               -                           288
61              489                          258                   89
62              421                          306                   38
63              h25                          362                   17
64              609                          233                  161
65              680                          326                  109
66              622                          512                   21
67              581                          485                   20
68              514                          388                   32
69              537                          395                   36
70              707
71           1,112
-----------(1971 Cr$/ton)-----------_
1960                                         2,754                     -
61            5,682                        3,005                   89
62           3,891                         2,825                   38
63           2,917                         2,488                   17
64            6,675                        2,555                  161
65            5,729                        2,741                  109
66            3,802                        3,132                   21
67           3,392                         2,838                   20
68           3,407                        2,572                    32
69           3,350                         2,465                   36
70            4,192
71            6,229
Source of Basic Data: Fund.acao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil,
various issues.
April 26, 1973



ApDfDAD4  2-10
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CGIT PRO  =
Beef Processing
FA,f vxnorts by Country of Destination (r'To-71)
-Mbtric Tons
Fresh                  Ccoked
chilled/frozen         frozen/canned           Total
us                   -                     18,023              18,023
Italy              14,846                      63              14.,909
Benelux            11,317                   1,341              12,658
UK                  4,620                   2,898               7,518
Spain               6,590                     -                 6,590
Israel              5,930                     _                 5,930
Greece              2,873                     100               2,973
Genna8   (FR)       2,455                     -                2,455
Portugal            2,268                     -                 2,268
3witzerland         2,042                     162               2,204
Others              4,_83                   4,298               8,681
57,324                 26,885              84,209
Note: Data does not include export of beef casings.
1/ Period: 4th quarter, 1970 to 3rd quarter, 1971.
Source: DIPOA, Ministry of Agriculture.
March 6, 1973



Appendix 2-11
*                                 B~~~~~~~~~~~RAZ]:L
AGRO-INDUSTRIDS MREDIT PROJECT
Beef Processing
Dcport Quotas for 1972 and 1973
(ton)
1972               L973&/
Untied quota
Rio Grande do 5nl                  30,000              26,500
Central Brasil                     25 000              17 500
Total
Quota related tpRtrage
irequreets 'J/t
Rio Grande do 8u1                  50,000              37,500
Central Brasil                     63 000              45 000
3              Total
Specil quota for new plants           12,000              18,000
Total                                180,000             lIsh,500
2/The quotas given for 1973 are those as they existed in March 1973.
g/The untied quota is allocated among processors on the basis of their
historlcal share of exports.
2/In 1972, tho storage requirement for Rio Grandse do Sal was 1 ton for every
5 tons exported and for Central Brasil, 1 ton tor every 1.5 tons eported.
In 1973, the respeetive storage reqiremnts werel:2.5 and 1tl.
March 6, 1973






ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRI:S CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Table of Contents
Page No.
Production ............ . ....  .........................             1
Seed . ......       ........................................     1
Oil                                             *****...............................- ............  2
The Industry . ..... o..**o.............     *# ..........................  2
Background ..        .....     ....-    ................ . ......  2
Structure .      .......................     .......             3
Plant Operations ............. ... ........ oo ....... .         3
Investment Needs .      ........... ... ..-...........          5
Availability of Funds . .....  .... .... ........ . .... .       5
Equipment Supply ..5......... ...........o ...                   5
Marketing-o                   .  ....... ... ......  .............    5
Domestic Market .......  o-        .....o......ooo .......       6
Export Market .... o...... oo .......... o..............         8
Financial Models .........  -. -            ........ .........       10
Gaeneral ............ 0...... .......0.............00-0 .........  lO
Investment Demand Under The Project......... o ..........    ..      14
Appendices:
3-1  -  Oilseeds - Area Cultivated, Yield and Production
3-2  -  Vegetable Oil - Quantity and Value of Production
3-3  -  Oilcakes and Meals - Derived Quantities of Production
3-4  -  Soybean Products - Exports, Imports and Apparent
Domestic Consumption
3-5  -  Cottonseed Products - Exports, Imports and Apparent
Domestic Consumption
3-6  -  Peanut Products - Exports and Apparent Domestic Consumption
3-7  -  Oilseed Meal - Overseas Prices
3-8  -  Edible Vegetable Oils - World Production and Consumption
of Principal Soft Oils
0






ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
A. Production
Seed
1.        Soybean.  Soybeans would be the most important raw material input
for project-financed oilseed processing facilities. They have emerged as one
of the most successful farm crops, in Brazil, both in terms of production
growth and in profitability to the farmer. Annual farm output grew at about
19% per year between 1952-54 and 1969-71, rising from a yearly average of
about 945,000 tons in the earlier years to about 1.5 million tons in the
latter. The 1971 level was close to 2.0 million tons, and the estimate for
1972 is about 3.4 million tons. Soybean yield has, however, remained at close
to 1.2 tons/ha over the 1950's and 1960's, mostly because of the rapid expan-
sion in area cultivated on heretofore undeveloped or pasture lands. Between
1952-54 and 1969-71, area planted rose by 19.3% per year while yield has re-
mained relatively stagnant (Appendix 3-1). Projecting soybean production is
extremely difficult because of its volatile growth in recent years and because
it is a relatively new crop for Brazil. Estimates for 1976 made by the last
IBRD economic mission range between 4.1 million tons and 6.8 million tons,
mostly due to further large increases in area planted, but also due to an
expected modest growth in yield. At the current pace of expansion in area
devoted to soybeans, especially in the states of Goias, NIato Grosso and Minas
Gerais, soybean production in Brazil will continue to exhibit substantial
growth.
2.        Other Oilseeds.  Cottonseed is probably the second most important
oilseed input for project facilities. As a by-product of cotton, its growth
in output is very much dependent on the market for cotton lint. Yearly
cottonseed production rose from an average of 0.79 million tons in 1952-54
to 1.24 million tons in 1969-71, an annual growth rate of 2.7%. With area
planted growing at 2.8% per year, average yield remained at essentially the
same level over the two decades (Appendix 3-1). Future growth in cottonseed
production would depend upon the behavior of the market for cotton lint;
rising competition from man-made fibers should cause the growth rate in
cottonseed production to fall below its level of the past two decades.
3.        Farm production of peanuts grew at an annual compound growth rate
of 10.7% from 1952-54 to 1969-71, from a yearly average of 115,000 tons to
644,000 tons (in shelled peanuts). Area planted rose at an annual rate of
9.5%, while yield increased from 825 kg/ha to 953 kg/ha of shelled nuts,
during the same period. Castor seed production rose from a yearly average



ANNEX 3
Page 2
of 163,000 tons in 1952-54 to 366,000 tons in 1968-70, an annual growth rate
of 5.2%, while area planted rose by 3.5% per year. Yield increased from ahi
annual average of 749 kg/ha in 1952-54 to 966 kg/ha in 1968-70 (Appendix 3-1).
Future growth rates in peanut and castor seed output are expected to maintain
their levels of the 1950's and 1960's.
Oil
4.        Soybean oil, although a relatively new product in Brazil compared
to other vegetable oils, exceeded all others in value of production in 1970
(Appendix 3-2). With the recent expansion in soybean processing capacity,
soybean oil is expected to assume the dominant role in Brazil's vegetable
oil industry, both in volume and value of output. Cottonseed oil and castor
oil both averaged around 160,000 tons in 1968-70, followed by soybean oil at
114,000 tons, peanut oil at 96,000 tons, and coconut oil at 84,000 tons.
Corn oil has played a minor role, with only about 7,500 tons. Between 1956-58
and 1968-70, soybean oil production grew at an annual average rate of 22.5%;
cottonseed oil, at 5.5%; peanut oil, at 6.5%; corn oil, at 8.3%; coconut oil,
at 7.6%; and castor oil, at 8.5%.
5.        Except for corn oil, whose average unit value (expressed in 1971
cruzeiros per ton) increased by 38.4% during the period 1956-58 to 1968-70,
vegetable oil in general have been declining in unit value in the last de-
cade and a half. Average unit values in 1956-58 and 1968-70 and overall
percentage changes in these values during the indicated period were as
follows (1971 Cr$/ton):
Soybean   Cottonseed   Peanut    Corn    Coconut        Castor
1956-58         2,226.7    1,979.5       2,581.2  2,190.9  2,277.1       1,580.9
1968-70          1,870.8    1,604.8      1,992.2  3,031.2  1,676.1       1,547.2
Total change:
1956-58 to
1968-70          -16.0%      -18.9%       -22.8%   +38.4%   -26.4%        -2.0%
B. The Industry
Background
6.        Great increases in soybean production since 1965 and the strong
export market for meal have stimulated the soybean industry to grow rapidly.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
In 1966 and 1967, there was a crisis of apparent over-production of oil,
probably due to (a) a shift to ICI (value added tax) that led wholesalers to
dump their stocks on the market and obliged the industry to raise the price
of oil; and (b) imports of low priced fats, which also led to decreased con-
sumption of vegetable oils. The inability to place oil surpluses on the
international market made it necessary to stop production in some companies
and brought about severe economic harm to others. Because of this situation,
the production of edible vegetable oil, which was 333,000 tons in 1966, dropped
to 300,000 tons in 1968. In the latter year and in 1969, 44,000 tons of some
flower seed oil was imported to cover domestic needs. In 1969, a recovery
came about, the industries increased their rates of utilization and produc-
tivity, and production reached 385,000 tons of edible oil.
Structure
7.        Ownership.  Most of the oilseed processing plants are privately
owned. The small and medium sized factories are typically Brazilian family
enterprises, while some of the large factories are controlled by foreign
firms. The seven largest producers of vegetable oils in Brazil together
account for slightly more than 60% (1971) of the total vegetable oil production.
8.        Size.  Factories utilizing mechanical extraction (about half of the
total number) normally have a capacity not exceeding 50 to 60 tons of oilseed
a eay.  The rest have capacities ranging from 100 to 400 tons/day, with the
exception of three large factories, which can handle over 1,000 tons/day.
Utilization of nominal capacity is high, especially for the large plants.
Normally, they work 24 hours a day and up to 360 days a year.
9.        Location.  Oil processing industries were originally located in the
south (Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina), close to where the raw materials
were produced, but, during the last 10 years, new production areas have de-
veloped, especially in Parana, Sao Paulo, and Minas Gerais. The main factory
in the south is near Porto Alegre (Rio Grande do Sul), while two of the
largest factories are situated in Ponta Grossa (Parana), which is close to
one of the new production centers. The new facilities constructed have been
close to urban centers or railways where transportation of raw material and
finished products are ensured.
Plant Operations
10.       Processing.  Soybeans are transported to the processors by train or
truck. In recent years, bulk handling techniques have been developed to re-
place the time consuming and expensive sack handling method. The medium size
and larger processors normally have their own silos for raw material storage,
which enable them to operate continuously during the entire year. These
silos are either placed close to the production areas or at the plants.
Control of the ingoing raw material is critical and requires the use of
cleaners and driers.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       The oil in the soybean is about 18% of weight, and there are three
principal ways of extracting it: (a) mechanical; (b) mechanical plus solvent
extraction; and (c) continuous solvent extraction. Mechanical extraction
leaves an oil residue in the soybean cake of about 4.5 to 5%, while the more
efficient solvent extraction method brings it down to 0.5 to 1%. The combined
mechanical and solvent extraction units are a discontinuous two-step system.
In the first step, oil is extracted by screw presses and, in the second step,
batchwise with solvent. After the solvent extraction, the cake has to be
broken up manually.
12.       The continuous solvent extraction system needs very little labor
input, but it is more difficult to reguilate and control than the other systems.
To date, few continuous systems have been built in Brazil because the invest-
ment cost is significantly higher than for the discontinuous two-step units.
In addition, the two-step system is flexible enough to process different
types of seeds.
13.       After extraction, the meal is heated to evaporate the solvent and
destroy the enzymes. The solvent, normally hexane, is then recovered, dis-
tilled, and circulated back into the process. The extracted meal, sometimes
pelletized, is normally transported in bulk.
14.       S asonalitZ.  To avoid having the processing units stand idle, the
medium and large companies often buy large stocks during the harvest, which
is normally from the end of March through September.  The peak stock is
generally about four to five months of production.
15.       Labor Use.  The oilseed processing industry has been rather labor
intensive, the small units using about one worker to each ton processed per
day, and the large units, one worker per 4 tons/day. 1/ Modernization by
itself would thus reduce the labor requirement of the sector, but the net
result depends on the degree of expansion of output.
16.       Profitability.  World market prices for soybean meal are exception-
ally high at present--about US$140 to US$150 per ton--while prices for oil
remain rather low. Long-term projections of the Bank's commodities section
indicate decreases in price of soybeans, meal, and oil, but the margin for
the processors is still adequate.
17.       Environment.  The oilseed processing industry seems to have little
problem with waste or air pollution. However, it is necessary to ensure that
any plant developed adheres to current regulations and standards. It is
important that (a) the amount of solvent is kept low in effluents from the
plant, (b) good ventilation is provided in the plants to avoid concentration
of hexane gases, and (c) the extraction equipment is so constructed that
solvent (liquid or gas) cpnnot leak out.
',' The figures are related to the complete process.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
18.       Management and Training.  The management of the units seems to be
quite adequate. Most management personnel have been trained in the factories
and are quite familiar with the complete system. When new equipment is in-
stalled, the supplier normally spends considerable time instructing the
buyer in the efficient operation of the equipment. In addition, the equip-
ment used in the different plants is similar, which facilitates the training
of workers and supervisors.
Investment Needs
19.       There is a substantial interest among many of the companies today
in expanding their capacities. Crushing capacity is already being increased,
especially in the state of Parana, where it will rise by nearly 100% between
1972 and 1973. However, the production of soybeans continues to increase and
there is a need for additional processing capacity. In addition, there is,
nevertheless, a need for modernizing the small factories so that they can
adopt the more efficient solvent extraction systems.
Availability of Funds
20.       The analysis made of the sector in 1966 and 1967, while the crisis
was in full stride (para 6), led the Government to adopt a policy of dis-
couraging the installation of new edible oil factories and the expansion of
installed capacity of existing plants. Then, the large soybean harvest in
Rio Grande do Sul and Parana, starting in 1969, as well as increased prices
for soybean meal abroad, led the Government to relax its restrictions. While
the state development banks have provided some of the long-term financing
needed by the industry, their resources are limited.
Equipment Supply
21.       Brazilian manufacturers of oilseed crushing and extraction equip-
ment have extensive experience in the production of machinery for the in-
dustry, especially for plants with a capacity of 400 tons per day or less.
Continuous solvent extractors for capacities of more than 800 tons per day
are normally imported and sometimes modified in Brazil, while most equipment
for oil refining is manufactured in Brazil on license from abroad. Brazilian
firms in the sector often have technical cooperation agreements with the lead-
ing major firms in the US and Europe, which enables them to closely follow
developments in the field.
C. Marketing
22.       The three oilseeds which would be processed under project would be
soybean, cottonseed, and peanut. Processing any of these oilseeds would
result in two principal products, namely: (a) cake or meal, and (b) vegetable
oil.  Cake and meal are mostly utilized as feed while vegetable oil is directly
used for human consumption. Production figures are given in Appendix 3-3.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Domestic  Sarket
23.       Meal and Cake.  Apparent domestic consumption in 1969-70 of oil-
cakes and meals averaged annually as follows: soybean, 221,000 tons; cotton-
seed, 292,000 tons; and peanut, 27,000 tons; or a total of 540,000 tons for
all three types of oilseed cakes and meals (Appendices 3-4, 3-5, and 3-6).
24.       Between 1964 and 1970, domestic consumption of soybean meal and
cake grew annually at 14.4%. Cottonseed and peanut meals and cakes, on the
other hand, declined annually by 3.3% and 3.9%, respectively, during the
same period. In relation to domestic production, apparent domestic consumption
in 1970 was 33.5% for soybean meal and cake, 61.1% for cottonseed meal and
cake, and 13.5% for peanut meal and cake. The ratio for soybean meal and
cake has been continuously declining, despite the substantial increase in
consumption levels. This is due to the rapid growth over this period of the
soybean processing industry, which has increased its supplies of meal and cake
to foreign markets. The corresponding ratio for cottonseed meal and cake has
also significantly decreased, although it is still rather high, and this is
partly a reflection of the decline in the domestic consumption level. In the
case of peanut meal and cake, a large decline in the ratio of domestic con-
sumption to production is largely explained by the decline in absolute con-
sumption levels.
25.       Two important points give the domestic market of oilcakes and meals
a bright outlook. First, recent efforts in rationalizing hog production,
especially in replacing the present stock of lard types with meat types and
promoting commercial piggeries, should significantly raise the demand for
feed rations and oilcakes and meals in the near future. The largest feed
producer in Brazil has an ongoing program aimed at raising hog production
and meat yields in backyard operations and is sponsoring the importation of
meat-type breeds from the US.  In addition, poultry farming is experiencing
a surge as more and more Brazilians partially shift from beef to relatively
cheaper poultry meat.
26.       Second, there is hardly any direct feeding of cattle in feedlots
at present, although there is a growing awareness of its advantages. This
awareness should eventually evolve into actual practice and establish a
substantial market for cattle feed, such as oilcakes and meals and unpro-
cessed feed grains.
27.       Oil.  Domestic consumption of soybean oil, cottonseed oil, and
peanut oil together grew from 212,000 tons in 1964 to 414,000 tons in 1970,
or an annual growth rate of 12%. The total growth could be attributed to
an annual population growth of 2.7% and a per capita consumption increase
averaging 8.9% per year. The estimated per capita consumption of the three
oils in 1964 was 2.69 kg and in 1970, 4.48 kg.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
28.       Analysis of each individual vegetable oil shows the following
pattern in domestic consumption and prices between 1964 and 1970:
Soybean  Cottonseed   Peanut
Oil        Oil        Oil       Total
Quantity Consumed
(in '000 tons):               1964         36         134         42        212
1970        168         147        100        414
Annual Growth Rate (%)                      29           1        16         12
Average Price (in Constant
1971 Cr$/ton);                1964      2,698       2,588      3,918      2,892
1970      1,719       1,578      1,918      1,731
Annual Rate of Decline (X)                7.2         7.9      11.2        8.2
(Sums may not equal parts due to rounding)
29.       Brazil's GNP grew at 8.5% per year between 1966 and 1971 (Table
2.2 of Economic Report, Vol. II). If this growth rate is maintained through
1980, along with a projected population rise of 2.8% per year, the average
increase in per capita GNP would be about 5.5% annually.  USDA estimates the
income elasticity of demand for vegetable oils in South America to be about
2.10 1/ and since Brazil is South America's largest country, it may be assumed
that the elasticity estimates for the continent are good approximations for
Brazil. Based on this assumption and on the foregoing projection of population
and per capita income growths, total consumption of vegetable oil would grow
annually at about 11.9% 2/ if the relative average price of the commodity does
not change. The average annual growth rate of vegetable oil production be-
tween 1956 and 1970, derived by regression method, was about 8.3%. If the
same growth rate may be assumed without the project's contribution to veg-
etable oil output, then there would be a continuing annual deficit on this
commodity represented by the gap between the projected higher annual growth
in consumption (11.9%) over that of production (8.3%).  Thus, if the project
does not cause production to increase by more than about 3.3% 3/, the present
high domestic prices, relative to world market prices, may be maintained.
1/   "World Supply and Demand Prospects for Oilseed and Oilseed Products in
1980", March 1971, p. 64.
2/   (2.1 x 5.5%) x 1.028.
3/   Deficit of about 3.6% divided by 108.3%.
.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
Export Market
30.       Meal and Cake.  About two-thirds of soybean cake and meal production
currently finds its way into export markets.  The proportion for cottonseed
cake and meal is much lower, at less than 40%. For peanut, the proportion was
as high as 86% in 1968, although it was only 70% in 1970.
31.       Between 1964 and 1970, exports of soybean meal and cake grew from
44,000 tons to 525,000, or an average annual growth of 51%. Cottonseed cake
and meal grew at 31% per year, from 26,000 tons to 162,000 tons, during the
same period. Peanut meal and cake grew at an annual rate of about 35%, from
an estimated 34,000 in 1964 to 201,000 in 1970.
32.       World demand for oilseed cakes and meals especially from soybean
is expected to continue to grow as a result of increases in per capita income
and changes in taste patterns toward a higher consumption of meat. The US
Department of Agriculture projects oilcake demand in North America, Japan,
Western Europe, and Oceania to rise to about 37.9 to 43.9 million tons by
1980, compared with 24.6 million tons in 1963-65, or an annual growth rate
of 2.8 to 3.7%. Oilcake production in these countries is projected at 34.2
million tons in 1980, indicating net import requirements for the group of 3.7
to 9.7 million tons. 1/ Viewed against Brazil's 1970 total exports of soybean,
cottonseed, and peanut meals and cakes of 888,000 tons, these 1980 net import
requirements of the western developed countries provide a substantial market
potential for Brazilidn oilcake exports.
33.       Oilcake and meal prices have been rising during the 1960's and
early 1970's. CIF Europe prices for Canadian soybean meal (45% protein) rose
from US$91/ton in 1960 to US$120/ton in1968, a growth of 3.5% per year
(Appendix 3-7), while average FOB prices for Brazilian soybean meal exports
rose from US$64.17/ton in 1964 to US$83.10/ton in 1968 to US$122/ton in 1972,
with annual growth rates of 4.4% between 1964 and 1968 and 8.4% between 1964
and 1972 (Appendix 3-4).
34.       Growth of cottonseed meal prices in the 1960's and early 1970's
followed these patterns: 44/45% protein, CIF Europe, US$79/ton in 1960 to
US$94/ton inI966, or annual rate of increase of 2.9%; and FOB Brazil, from
US$110.69 in 1964 to US$60.70 in 1970, or an annual rate of decline of 9.5%
(Appendices 3-5 and 3-7). Peanut meal price increments during the same
period were: 50% protein, FOB southeastern US$ mills, US$58.97/ton in 1960
to US$82.89/ton, or an annual growth rate of 3.5%; and FOB Brazil, US$65.41/
ton in 1964 to US$78.03/ton in 1970, or an annual increase of 3.0% (Appendices
3-6 and 3-7).
35.       Prices of the three oilcakes and meals mentioned above depend to a
significant degree on availability of fishmeal, aside from the world supply
conditions for the oilcakes and meals themselves. The high correlation in
I/   USDA, World Supply and Demand Prospects for Oilseeds and Oilseed Products
in 1980, Foreign Agricultural Economic Report No. 31, March 1971, pp. 120,
122, and 124.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
world prices between fishmeal and soybean meal (0.89) and between soybean
meal and cottonseed meal (0.91) indicate the strong influence of the supply
availabilities of one commodity on the price of the other. 1/ Fishmeal, whose
output rose an average of 12% a year between 1960 and 1968, dropped in pro-
duction by about 10% in 1969. As a result, production rose an average of
only 1.2% per year from 1968 to 1970. 2/ Since Peru accounted for almost 40%
of total world production from 1967 to 1970, current curtailments in its
output and export have resulted in large increases in oilcake prices. March
1973 quotations of soybean meal in the US midwest are as high as 250% of the
March 1972 price. X/
36.       Thus prices of cake and meal are at unprecedented levels and are
projected by the Bank's commodities section to decline over the decade. This
is based on two assumptions: first, a recovery of fishmeal production and,
second, rapidly increasing supplies of seed and cake/meal, particularly of
soybean. Very large increases in the production of soybeans are feasible as
land is shifted out of the production of other grains, especially wheat and
corn, and as idle land is brought into production. It is also assumed that
world processing capacity would expand rapidly. If a combination of all
these circumstances were to occur, the supply of cake/meal would increase at
a rate exceeding the growth in demand, and this would produce a downward
pressure on prices.
37.       Oil.  In contrast to the domestic vegetable oil market, the export
market prospects for vegetable oils are not bright.  Projections by FAO and
USDA both point to continuing decline in vegetable oil prices well into the
late 1970's. IBRD commodities specialists forecast soybean oil prices (CIF
Europe) to be about US$241 per ton in 1980, compared with US$290 per ton in
1971. Cottonseed oil is projected at US$275 per ton in 1980, compared with
US$349/ton in 1971. Forecast of peanut oil price in 1980 is US$317/ton,
compared with US$395/ton in 1971.
38.       The projected decline in world market price of the principal edible
vegetable oils can be best understood by reference to Appendix 3-8, which
justaposes world production and consumption of those oils between 1967 and
1972. Except for 1968 and 1969, when apparent shortages in these oils were
recorded, world production has been exceeding world consumption and this
demand gap has been growing since 1970 as shown by the ratio of that gap to
consumption, as follows: 1970 - 0.21%; 1971 - 0.86%; and 1972 - 1.62%.
1/   Correlation coefficients computed by USDA and reported in their "World
Supply and Demand Prospects for Oilseeds and Oilseed Products in 1980",
March 1971, p. 16.
2/   UNDP/FAO Indian Ocean Fishery Commission, International Trade -  Fishmeal,
March 1971, p. 11.
3/   Wall Street Journal.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
39.       Studies made by USDA 1/ show that the value of meal and cake gener-
ally exceeded the value of the corresponding oil from a given quantity of
soybean or cottonseed in 1967. The ratios of value of cake to value of oil
for that year were: 67:33 and cottonseed, 52:48. Although peanut showed
just the reverse situation, at a meal value/oil value ratio of only 29.71,
its importance is quantitatively small.  Since 1967, however, the meal value/
oil value ratio must have further increased as a result of relative increases
in meal and cake prices compared to oil prices during this period. Thus, the
oilseed processing industry can be expected to regard oilcake and meal more
as their principal product and oil as merely a secondary product, thus re-
sponding more actively to cake and meal prices. Thus the supply of vegetable
oil would not necessarily be a direct response to market conditions for that
commodity. As long as cake and meal prices are good and the weighted value
of cake/meal and oil makes it profitable to continue oilseed processing oper-
ations, there would be no constraint to the production of oil as a secondary
product and this is the situation the world might well be faced with in the
1970's.
40.       On the basis of the general prognosis of world markets for vegetable
oils, Brazil cannot really look forward to it as an attractive source of foreign
exchange earnings. ,Nonetheless, the nature of the oilseed processing indus-
try, whereby demand and prices of cakes and meals would more likely dictate
the production of oil, may mean that Brazil's domestic vegetable oil produc-
tion will far exceed the 11.9% annual growth in domestic consumption estimated
above.  Using USDA's estimate of the price elasticity of demand for vegetable
oil in South America of -1.21, and considering that the supply function of
vegetable oil would be perfectly inelastic as to price, on the assumption that
it is essentially a by-product of cake and meal, then any excess of supply over
demand at a given price would cause that price to fall by about 83% of the
percentage of the excess supply over the quantity demanded prior to the price
adjustment. Thus, if supply exceeds demand at prevailing prices by 10%, then
prices would fall by 8.3%. Domestic prices would then continue to fall so
long as annual production exceeds annual consumption until those prices reach
the export (FOB Brazil) price for vegetable oils. At that point, excess supply
would find its way into export markets. But this assumes, of course, that
processing would continue to be profitable because of oilcake and meal prices.
D. Financial Models
General
41.       Model A represents an investment in a new soybean processing plant
with a capacity of 300 tons raw material per day. The unit would utilize a
1/   "World Supply and Demand Prospects for Oilseeds and Oilseed Products
in 1980", March 1971, p. 16.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
combined mechanical and solvent extraction system. The amount of oil extracted
fromthe beans would increase due to the more efficient extraction system in
comparison with factories working only with mechanical extractors. It is as-
sumed that the factory would work 350 days per year, with a utilization rate
of about 90%.
42.       Since all production is expected to be exported, the prices assumed
are thus projected by the Bank's Commodities Section, which show a decline
up to year 1980. However, the marging to the processors are adequate and
the financial rate of return of the investment is calculated to be 24%.
0
.






W:Q    aW WN1                                                                      Rrn           X         w D
0-  X   al                                                     a                 Caca              p  ptC   a O    
n o      n   ,0t        ,:    opaoP  cop                           kn oD        
W~~~S                  a       neo-  aa                               0000-           a   a   a      
XC ~ ~ ~ o .             an C     C-S o                             00       C        
n ~    ~      n o.   Id         p'n -a            (5                                       N na
C ~ ~ ~ o- nrvDI W         o     -"  - 1-a N                            aa            0   a c   s
a ~ ~ ~ ~~-   a ID eOa                         paOW r~                a     a   a             laP rIcn-t 
>~~~ ~                     CC aat             pa a,^ o a 0 m =ag=>>S9XrbmWg11r
fi rl D C t H            0-i      na-    0o                                                                  a       X fir   
ff    ~     ~ n- ra r  rt;00              rnv3C                              n r  
g g ~~~~~~~~~~~~o               D 00   1a-a                         -   -                                    p on
D PO                   a co°OcW             rp        gc       r g r             < 
N- =--                       p                                                                        C000
opt              a        aa         a        0a,-O 
0 r                                                        nan 0-t                                   a   
rn.nO             -    .00~                                                                                    a        e~NOO 
r-o             op          a      no 8                    o88ooS 8   v      
ot              0- _1                                           Ca l o oo o oo o oo        so o o l         9
op   a9 -'N                UC       O-  opD))       OIS 4                          - °N           11
aa~~~~~ pa                                 an a.                                               0             '> ° 
rnO                                          p                             n0 - 






ANNEX 3
Page 13
MODEL A: Soybean Processing Plant
Mechanical and Solvent Extraction Unit
Capacity, 300 ton/day
Financial AnalYsis
(Cr$ '000)
Year 1       Year 2          Year 3          Year 4         Year 5        Year 6        Year 7          Year 8         Year 9         Year 10          Year 11          Year 12-15
Percent Utilization            0            70              100            100            100            100           100             100            100            100             100                 100
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
Investment                               16,650           -               -               -              -              -            -               -               -             -                _
Grosa Reyenue
Meal                                      -        31,016          41,992          39,675         37,358        35,114        35,114          35,114         35,114         35,114           35,114             35,114
Oil 2/                                    -        13,825          19,263          18,777         18,274        17,788        17,788          17,788         17,788         17,788           17,788             17,788
Total                                -        44,841          61,255          58,452        55,632         52,902        52,902          52,902         52,902         52,902           52,902             52,902
Coat of Raw Material 3/                               35,347          47,136          43,776         40,416        37,056        37,056          37,056         37,056         37,056           37,056             37,056
Operating Costs
Direct                                    -         6,650           9,500           9,500          9,500         9,500         9,500           9,500          9,500          9,500            9,500              9.500
Indirect                                  -           900             900             900            900            900          900             900            900            900
900                900
Total                               -          7,550          10,400          10,400        10,400         10,400        10,400          10,400         10,400         10,400           10,400             10,400
Operating Profit                             -         1,944           3,719           4,276          4,816          5,446        5,446           5,446          5,446          5,446            5,446              5,446
Depreciation (10 years)                      -          1,665          1,665           1,665          1,665          1,665        1,665            1,665          1,665          1,665           1,665
Interest on PB Sub-loan 4/                  327          654             654             561            467            374          280              187             93             -               -
Net Profit                                   -           (375)         1,400           2,050          2,684          3,407        3,501           3,594           3,688          3,781           3,781              5,446
Net Cash Flow                           (16,650)        1,944          3,719           4,276          4,816          5,446        5,446           5,446           5,446          5,446           5,446              5,446
Sources and Uses of Funds
Sources
PB Sub-loan                           13,080           -               -               -              -              -            -                -              -              -               -                   _
Sub-borrower's Contribution            3,897
Sub-total                       16,977            -               -               -              -              -            -               -               -              -               -
Cash Flow from Operations                 -         1,290           3,065           3,715          4,349          5,072        5,166            5,259          5,353          5,446           5,446              5,446
Total                           16,977         1,290           3,065           3,715          4,349         5,072         5,166           5,259          5,353          5,446            5,446              5,446
Uses
Investment                            16,650           -               -               -              -              -             -               -              -              -               -
Debt Service
Interest                             327           654             654             561            467            374          280              187             93
Principal                              -            -            1,868           1,868          1,868          1,869        1,869            1,869          1,869
Total                           16,977           654           2,522           2,429          2,335         2,243         2,149           2,056           1,962             -               -
Cash Position
Annual                                (3,897)          636            543           1,286          2,014          2,829         3,017           3,203          3,391          5,446           5,446               5,446
Cumulative                            (3,897)       (3,261)        (2,718)         (1,432)           582          3,411         6,428           9,631         13,022         18,468          23,914              45,698 6/
Financial Rate of Return:  24%
1/ Average price 1972, Cr$739 per ton FOB Santos. Projected price 1980, Cr$485 per ton FOB Santos,  Linear decrease is assumed.
2/ Average price 1972, Cr$1,382 per ton FOB Santos,  Projected price 1980, Cr$ 1,133 per ton FOB Santos.  Linear decrease is assumed.
3/ Average price 1972, Cr$666 per ton hinterland Rio Grande do Sul,  Projected price 1980, Cr$386 per ton hinterland Rio Grande do Sul.
4/  Interest rate, 5% in real value.
5/  Sub-loan 80% of investment cost (excluding cost of land) for eight years, includir.g one year grace.
6/ Year 15
April 24, 1973






ANNEX 3
Page 14
E. Investment Demand Under the Prolect
43.       The consultants who prepared the project estimated that the invest-
ment needs of the oilseed processing industry in the center-south would amount
to about Cr$47 million (US$8 million) over the project period and this is the
amount included in the proposed project. The PB's, however, estimated the
requirements at about Cr$295 million (US$49 million). The different results
from the fact that the consultants were concerned with the weakness of the
world market for soybean oil and limited their proposal to the amount of
funds they judged necessary for the rationalization of the industry - the
consolidation of small firms to form medium sized firms operating more effi-
cient plants. The PB's did not take this criterion into consideration.
Nevertheless, since the estimate made by the PB's was based primarily on
expressions of interest by potential clients, it serves to indicate that the
demand for long-term financing by firms in the industry is strong.
44.       The following are project investments estimated by the consultants
and by the participating banks for the project period (Cr$ million);
Participating
Consultants         Banks
Rio Grande do Sul                        31               185
Santa Catarina                           -                 -
Parana                                   16                73
Sao Paulo                                -                 -
Mato Grosso                              -                 -
Goias                                    -                 23
Minas Gerais                             -                 -
Espirito Santo                           -                 12
Rio de Janeiro                                              2
Total                               47               295
Project Estimate:                        47






** 
BRAZIL
AGHO-INDUSTAILS CREDIT PXDJEC?
_     Oilseed Processing
Oilseeds  - Area Cultivated, Yield,and Production
Soybean                     Cotton      1/               Shelled Peanuts                 Castor Seed
Year      Area     Yield    Prod.        Area     Yield     Prod.       Area     Yield     Prod.       Area     Yield   Prod.
(' 000   (kg/ha)   (t 000      (' 000   (kg/ha)   (' 000      (I 000   (kg/ha)   (' 000      ( 000   (kg/ha) (' 000
ha)              -tons)        ha)               tons)        ha)   _ons__ha)                                tons)
1952'    60.0      1,297      77.9      3,035      298        942       141        771     108.8       221      715     158.1
1953     63.0    1,401        88.2      2,587      257        695       137        801     109.9       219      736     160.9
1954     68.1    1,722       117.3      2,487      281        742       139        904     126.0       213      796     169.9
1955      74.0    1,445      106.9      2,617      294        813       166        838     139.4       206      796     164.0
1956     80.8    1,422       114.9      2,663      269        762       163        830      135.7      207      777     161.0
1957      97.4    1,247      121.5      2,771      255        706       169        848     143.7       239      840     200.3
1956    107.0    1,223       130.9      2,706      254        687       228      1,01l      231.2      218      796     173.3
1959    114.1    1,328       151.6      2,746      206        840       255      1,050      268.1      244      742      180.6
196c    171.4,    1,200      205.7      2,930      329       -966       291      1,052      306.3      255      883     224.7
1961    240.9    1,127       271.5      3,234      339      1,097       436      1,oo4      438-3      283      733     207.8
1962    313.6    1,101       342.2      3,458      330      1,141       476        962     485.9       284      792      225.0
1963    339.8    )S950       322.9      3,554      331      1,174       423      1,071      452.9      307      781      239.9
1964    359.6        848     304.9      3,765      282      1,062       430         820     352.3      348      893      310.3
1965    431.8    1,212       523.2      4,004      298      1,192       541      1,030      557.0      394      901      355.0
1966    490.7      1,213     595.0      3,898      287      1,119       644      1,043      671.2      347      949      329.3
1967    612.1    1,169       715.6      3,720      273      1,015       694        812      563.1      361      985      355.2
1968    721.9        907     654.5      3,902      307      1,200       606         932     565.4      377      982      370.3
1969     906.1    1,166   1,056,6       4,195      302      1,266       613         922     565.4      378    1,002~  378.4
1970  1,318.8      1,144   1,508.5      4,299      273      1,173       670      1,040      696.1      381      915      348.5
1971   1,589.1    1,244   1,977.1       4,460      290      1,292       672        998      670.8    n.a.        n.a.    n.a.
1/ Original yield and production data in seed cotton, converted into seed equivalent of 0.6.
2/  Original yield and production data in unshelled peanuts, converted into shelled equivalent of 0.75.
Sources:r  Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues,
and Sinopse EstatIsLIca, 1572
I



BRAZIL
AGjRO-INDUSTRIiS CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Vegetable Oil - Quantity and Value of Production
(Quantities in '000 tons; values in 1971 Cr$ millions)
Soybean Oil     Cottonseed Oil       Peanut Oil         Corn Oil        Coconut Oil         Castor Oil
Year    Qty    Value      Qty      Value              Value     Qty   Value      Qty    Value       Qty       Value
1954     n.a.   n.a.       85.81  193.8       41.39   125.3    2.18      n.a.   34.88   112.2        42.11     47.2
1955     n.a.    n.a.      90.14  162.3       57.64   129.3    2.17      n.a.    41.23    90.8       41.91     52.0
1956     3.53              93.42   173.0      27r94    68.7     2.74     5.93    32.67    85.7       39.62     66.7
1957     6.04              75.15  157.4       33.83    97.7    3.43      8.14    29.19    66.5       64.40    105.9
1958    20.20    43.0      74.62  151.0       73.32   182.3    2.42      4.75    42.22    84.8       81.19    120.2
1959    12.92    22.8      84.68   141.7      69.47   147.4    4.15    11.22    37.81    94.8        76.30    102.8
1960    16.63    48.4      92.34   267.7      63.18   218.4    3.02    14.95    58.18   187.7        54-38     99.4
1961    21.59   48.o    116.23   259.9        91.81   249.7    6.46    25.4    52.O4   134.3        105.10    188.3
1962    26.30   .44.9    133.50   209.0       90.35   192.3    4.23    10.7    59.60    93.3         79.34    141.6
1963    30.31    55.8    130.82   211.3       78.03   138.8    5.23    17.4    45.17    88.9         91.21    145.9
1964    34.13    92.1    118.43   306.5       41.55   162.8    4.47    19.0    51.85   132.6        133.49    218.3
1965    45.54   105.4    103.17   221.0    102.88   279.7    5.13    14.1    54.1o   107.4          170.67    202.8
1966    62.49   132.5    130.57   252.-5    122.28   313.2    6.69    21.6    66.61   106.4         104.20    141.1
1967    66.73   101.9    112.09   166.9    112.20   200.8    6.68    21.9    51.48    83.9           86.58    153.5
1968    75.72   177.2    137.42   221.8       67.79   140.0    7.41    23.5    65.39   120.0        144.64    265.8
1969    99.16   175.2    177.12   286.9       89.68   183.4    7.45    21.9   100.68   151.5        182.13    263.8
1970   165.72   284.8    146.57   231.3    131.31   251.9    7.54    22.5    85.47   150.1          167.27    234.8
Sources : Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues,
and Sinopse Estatistica do Brasil, 1972.
March 24, 1973



BRAZIL
AGRO-INIXISTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Oilcakes and Meals - Derived Quantities of Production 
('000 tons)
Soybean                 Cottonseed                 Peanut
Year                    Meal and Cake              Meal and Cake            Meal and Cake
1954                                                  243.30                   73.32
1955                                                  255.58                  102.11
1956                        16.82                     264.88                   49.49
1957                        28.78                     214.78                   59.93
1958                        96.25                     211.58                  129.88
1959                        61.56                     24o0.lo                 123.06
1960                        79.2h                     261.82                  111.92
1961                       102.87                     329.55                  162.63
1962                       125.31                     378.52                  160.05
1963                       144.42                     370.92                  138.22
1964                       162.62                     335.79                   73.60
1965                       216.98                     292.52                  182.24
1966                       297.75                     370.21                  216.61
1967                       317.95                     317.82                  198.75
1968                       360.78                     389.64                  120.09
1969                       472.47                     502.20                  158.86
1970                       789.61                     415.58                  232.61
1971                     1,175.21                     359.33                  237.89
1/  No production data available.  These estimates have been derived from vegetable oil
production figures by the use of the following conversion factors representing ratios
of oilcake and meal to oil in Brazil's oilseed processing industry:  soybean, 81/17;
cottonseed, 465/164; and peanut, 62/35. Ixprovements in oil extraction methodB over the period
covered are regarded as being minimal and ignored in this table.
Source& Appendix 3-2.
March 24, 1973



BRA ZIT
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Soybean Products--Exports, Imports and Apparent Domestic Consumption
(Quantities in tOOO tons; total values in US$ millions; average price-. in US$/ton)
Exports
Meal                                Cake                                 Oil -
Year     Quantity      TotAl    Average        Quantity     Total   Average        Quantity    Total      Average
Value      Prices                    Value     Prices                   Value       Prices
1964          41.3      2.65       64.17          2.50       0.17      68.19
65          99.1      7.22       72.94          6.00       0.45      75.10
66         170.6    13.49        79.05         14.31       1.10      7,.00
67         123.0    10.02        81.49          2.36       0.20      82.98
68         225.0    18.16        80.70          9.50       0.77      81.16
69         274.5    22.QO        80.15         20.86       1.41      67.77
70        489.2    40.65         83.10         36.17       2.98      82.46            2.65    0.77       289.00
71         872X22    78.07       89.51           -          -          -                -        -          _
1136 .2   115.15       101.52           _--- _/
Imborts of S&ybean Oil                                                            Apparent Domestic Consumption
Crude 3/                            Reined                 Mel Oilcake              Oil
Quantity     Total    Average        Quantity   Total   Average           Quantity           Quantity
Value     Prices                    Value     Prices
1964          1.76      41W       235.10          0.57      232 4T4.18                118.79              36.48
65          3.22      752       233.47          6.20    2,554      411.74            119.93             54.96
66          0.02        9       391.30         11.04    5,o64      458.61            112.79             73.55
67           -         -          -            14.70    6,286      427.62            192.58             81.43
68           -         -          -             9.06    3,1482     384.28            126.23             84.78
69           -         -          -             3.44    1,275      370.53            177.09            102.60
70           -         -          -             4.60    1,889      410.30            264.23            167.67
71
Ratios of   antities
Ibal and Cake             oil
No reported exports before 1970.
Exports/       Exports/       Imports/             Estimates based on monthly averages for January-
Production    Production      ConsuMtion            August 1972.  Cakes included.
1964         26.9                           6.4            3/ No reported imports after 1966.
65         46.7                          17.1               Production plus imports, less expo-ts.-
66         62.1                          15.0               Production data used. were estimated from reported oil. ,
67         39.4                          18.1               Production converted, into meal and cake equivalent by
68         65.o                          10.7                a factor of 81/17.             -x
69         62.5                           3.4
70         66.5            1.6            2.7            Sources:  Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil,,
71                                                                     various issres.
March 24, 1973                                                         CACEX/NUCEX, Brasil Exportagao 1972.
0            i     '                                                                       .. *






BAZIL
Agro-Industries Credit Project
Oilseed Processing
Peanut Products--Exports and. Apparent Domestic Consumption
(Quantities in  '000  ons; total values in US$ '000; average prices in US$/ton)
Exports
Meal                                 Cake                                    Oil
Total    Average                     Total      Average                      Total    Average
Year  Quantity   Value       Price          Quantity   Value       Price           Quantity    Value      Price
1964       .96    1,29       65.41            n.a.       n.a.
65    115.99    8,191      70.62             5.80      447       77.08
66    149.42   11,228      75.15              5t16     403       08SQ6              -
67    140.94   11,030      78.26             7.45      615       82.>56            7.79       1,794     230.27
68     99.10    7,603      76.72             3.71      298       80.24            n.a.         n.a.       -
69    130.88    9,659      73.80             4.51      332       73.68             2.16         643     297.00
70    196.50   15,332      78.03             4.68      378       8o.86            31.68       9,997     315.57
71    200.53   16,690      83.23               -        -                         57.522    21,737      377.89
72V  233.75   19,486       83.37              _         _          _             108.09      37,941     351.02
3/                          Ratios of Quantities (U
Apparent -Diiometitc Consumnption-                           Export Production
4/
Meal and. Cake-4    Oil                            Meal & Cake           Oil
(Q-t)         (Qty)
1964      45.64           41.55                                38
65      60.46         102.88                                 67
66      62.02         122.28                                 71
67      50.37         104.41                                 f5               7
68      17.27          67.79                                 86
69      23.48          87.52                                 85                2
70      31.42          99.63                                 70               50
71
1/ I7o reported. exports prior to 1966. N7o reported. imporets, specified. as peanut oil, in any year.
2/ Estimates baso. %n mnthly average for January-August 1972.  Cakesincluded..
3/ Production less exports.
4/ Production data used.were estimated.from reported.oil production, converted. into meal and. cake
eouivalent at a factor of 62/35.
Sources:  Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues.
CACEX NU-CEX,  Ersl  xportaiao 1972.



Appendix 3-7
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Oilseed Processing
Oilseed Meal--Overseas Prices
(US$/ton)
Soybean Meal              Cottonseed Meal             Peanut Meal
FOB
FO B       CIF           FOB           CIF      Southeastern    CIF
Chicago    Europe        Chicago       Europe       U S  Mill    Europe
1960     62.56       91            71.93         79          58.97          98
61     73.75      100            73.63         78           65.31         93
62     77.60      106            76.56         83           70.22        102
63     84.38      113            84.71         93          74.63         106
64     80.85      112            74.90        102          67.96         108
65     83.61      115            75.73         96           77.26        119
66     97.17      124            93.64         94          91.72         11
67     89.12      119            93.09                      87.69        111
68     90.28      120            92.59                     91.55         105
69     87.19                     83.00                     84.99
70     92.98                     93.81                     90.-5
71     92.21                     92.43                     82.89
Sources: U. S. Department of Agriculture, U. S. Fats and Oils Statistics 1950-71,
July 1972, p. 170 for FOB Chicago prices.
These prices are originally quoted in
short tons and are here converted into
metric tons.
U. S. Department of Agriculture.9mWorld Supply and Demand Prospects for
Oilseeds and Oilseed Products in 1980 P
March 1971, p. 15.
March 24, 1973



BRAZIL
AGRO-IDSTRIEBS CRElDIT PXhaT;CT
Oilseed Processing
Edible Ve  table Oils--Word P ioduction a&nd oSUlnptii of P'nipei Sc''t Oils
1967               1968              1969                901971                              197? 2
of            '0)        %  of   '000       ,%  o:f  ' O0      %  of                                                       ' 000,0  o ' (00) , of 79y,
Oil            Tons      Total   Toos       Total ToTos        Total   Tons       Total    Tons      Total     TnS       T.1
A. Product{.on
So<>=-. sa      5,220     33.2    5,265      32.4   777T   "j35.1    6,970         39.3    7,1o5      38.8    73)400      38.1
Got-onseed     2,24o      1)4.2    2,25(     13-9    2,435      L1)38 2,340        13 2    2,)405     13.1    2,620       13S
Peanut         3,)i45     20.0    3 180      19.6    2 875      17.5   3,030       17 .1   3,05       16.8    I I 0       1.0>
Sub-total 10, 05      67C    10!6;              iq0       -67T.W   12,340     O9i' l2,5       ~ ~7   13,320           0
Cunflower      3,515      22.)4    3,660     22.6    3,620      22.0    3,585      20,2    3,500      19.1    35600       l8t5
Rapeseed       1,605      10.2    1,875      "1 116    13752    10.7    11800      0.2    2243        12.2    2,500       12.9
Total     l5,'25    100.0   16,230    iu,o o i6,457    100.0   17, 4          100.0  a18,328    100.0   19,420        0.0010
.3. Oonsurption
Soybean        5,171      33.1    5,333      12A8    5 8 73     35      6 797      38J)4    7 9,03 2  38 .7    7,310      36.3
Cottonseed     2,293      1-4.6    2,244     13                    2    2 2,387  11.2'   2A 76  14.0   2,392  13.2    2,550  13e3
Peanut         3,1)42     2001    3,153      19i6    2,919 36 )4   2,83            16.9    3,064J    16.9    3,250        17 0
Sub-total 1W4         'T.7 8   3706, 7          iZ         1°                  S 6-3    ,         6$        13,110
Sunflower      3,)460     22.1   3,640       22.4    3,845      22.9  3j662        'O,7    3,520      19.3 365)40         185
Rapeseed       1,577      10.1    1,862      315    1,7 8)4     10.6     ,7!(      10.0    2 ,16h)    11.9    22h60       1.2.9
Total     15,643    100.0   16,262   'lOO,.0  16,508    100.0   17,688    iJQ0.0   18,172    100.0   19,110          100l 0
1/ Preliminary estimate.
Source: Oil World, Semi-Annual, ISTA, May 1972.
March 24, 1973



ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Milk Processing
Table of Contents
Page No.
Production ........   e.................................                    1
Raw talk ...........................................                  1
Milk Products ......................................                  1
The Industry ..........          ..................................         2
Structure         ................................                    2
Regulations         .............................. .                  3
Plant Operations ....... .............. .                             3
Investment Demand ....... ...............                             4
Availability of Funds ...... ...............                          4
Equipment Supply ....... .............. .                             4
_Marketing .............         ..................................         5
Financial Models ........................................                   7
General          ............................................         7
11odel A     ....................... .....................
1'odel B ...........        .................................        10
Investment Denand Under The Project .....................                  12
Appendices:
4-1  -  M4ilk and Principal Milk Products -
Quantity and Value of Production
4-2  -  Milk Products - Imports and Apparent
Domestic Consumption
4-3  -  Milk and Principal Milk Products -
Average Wholesale Price
4-4  -  Milk Products - Implicit Protection
on Domestic Processing of Powdered Milk,
Butter and Cheese
4-5  -  Forecast of Domestic Demand, 1973-1980






ANNEX 4
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Milk Processing
A. Production
Raw Milk
1.        Farm production of milk rose from a yearly average of 4.3 million
tons in 1956-68 to 7.0 million tons in 1968-70, representing an annual growth
rate of 4.2% (Appendix 4-1). Growth prospects are not clear because of the
existing poor marketing structure, but inclusion of a milk processing com-
ponent under the project could help improve the rate of the past two decades.
Milk Products
2.        Pasteurized liquid milk and powdered milk are the two most important
processed milk products in Brazil, both in terms of volume and value of produc-
tion.  Cheese follows in importance, then butter and condensed milk.  Average
S          annual growth rates in volume of output between 1956-56 and 1968-70 were:
powdered milk, 10%; pasteurized milk, 9.4%; and cheese, 4.2%. Condensed milk
and butter outputs declined, respectively, by 0.3% and 2.1% annually during
the same period. Pasteurized milk production increased appreciably starting
in 1969; taking account of this surge provides an average annual growth rate
between 1954-56 and 1969-71 of 11.1%.
3.        Average unit values remained almost the same for condensed milk,
increased for powdered milk and cheese, and mildly declined for pasteurized
milk and butter during the 10-year period covering 1954-56 to 1964-66 (1966
is the latest year for which value data are available). Unit values per ton
of production and corresponding 10-year changes are as follows (1971 cruzeiros
per ton):
Condensed    Powdered    Pasteurized
Milk         Milk          Milk         Butter    Cheese
1954-1956           2,552        3,629           459         5,947      3,847
1964-1966           2,574        3,956           446         5,710      4,688
Total Change:
1954-56 to
1964-66            +0.9%         +9.0%          -2.8%        -4.0%     +21.9%
Appendix 4-1 shows details of historical series on quantities and values of
production of principal milk products.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.  The Industry
Structure
4.        General.  Brazil's tradition in cheese manufacturing and processing
(cooling) of milk for distribution in the urban areas dates back to 1800.
The techniques arrived with immigrants from Europe and the varieties of
cheese manufactured are still typically Danish, German, and Italian. The
industry developed earliest in  inas Gerais and Sao Paulo and later in the
southern states, but the states of Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo are still the
main producers of milk in Brazil, accounting for about 50% of total production.
5.        An estimated 500,000 farmers produce milk, but average production
is low at 40 liters per day. About 10 to 12 million cows are kept for milk
production, with 30% being milked at any one time.- On an average, each cow
produces about 500 to 800 liters per year, which is far below the 3,000 to
4,000 liters per year normal for the US and Europe. About 15% of the national
herd is specialized in milk production, and another 35% is raised for both
milk and beef (Annex 2). Milk production is highly seasonal, because most
dairy cattle are fed mainly on grass; pastures normally dry up during the
winter season, which lasts from June through November.
6.        The general condition of dairies varies widely in Brazil.  The
larger cooperatives and private dairies have high technical standards while
the small ones are often in poor condition, with ineffective cold storage;                 0
old, inefficient equipment; and a low hygienic standard. This situation
results in high losses in the handling of the milk and is often responsible
for the inability of dairies to receive and process excess milk during the
months of high production. The milk then remains at the farms and is most
often fed back to the cattle. In Minas Gerais, it was estimated that about
25% of all milk produced (1968-69) was never processed, partly as a result
of rejections because of poor quality.
7.        Ownership.  Most of the dairies are owned by cooperatives, ranging
from small enterprises, supplying only the local market with pasteurized
milk, to the major dairy cooperatives, supplying the big urban centers with
milk and other products. The large cooperatives are organized on the basis
of regional cooperatives, which are members of a central cooperative. (The
central cooperatives, however, normally have no direct control over the
regional organizations.)
8.        The privately owned dairies are rather large units having a well
developed production program. They produce about 85% of the consumer milk
and about 50% of the powdered milk; the remainder is processed by cooperatives.
The few state-owned dairies provide an insignificant part of Brazil's total
production.
.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
0
9.        Size.  The range in size is substantial.  A study made in 1966 showed
that about 70% of all dairies in Minas Gerais produced from 1,000 liters per
day to 5,000 liters per day.  The same range existed in the state of Sao Paulo.
Since 1966, a number of mergers have taken place, primarily in Sao Paulo, and
some large dairies (800,000 to 1,000,000 liters per day) have been constructed
in the Sao Paulo area. The rate of merger has been slower, however, in Minas
Gerais, which still has about 700 dairies with an average capacity of 9,000
liters per day.
to.       Location.  The milk industries have traditionally been located close
to the production areas because of the problems involved in transporting fresh
milk from the farms to the dairies. The cost of distribution has, for this
reason, been rather high and the areas which have developed most rapidly have
been those close to the large consumer centers. However, with the development
of powdered milk factories and collection centers where the milk is cooled and
transported to the dairies adjacent to the large cities, new supply regions,
such as the northern part of Espirito Santo and the central region of Minas
Gerais, have grown in importance.
Regulations
11.       The milk industry is inspected and regulated by DIPOA, which also
collects statistics on the industry. Implementation of the inspection pro-
gram has been rather slow and covers only about 25 to 30% of the total milk
production.  About 50% of the milk made into powdered milk is inspected by
DIPOA. DIPOA inspects about 950 milk plants, 600 of which are situated in
Minas Gerais. Of the 600 in Minas Gerais, 440 produce consumer milk. The
inspection of plants and products is most efficiently carried out for milk
products which are exported or sold interstate.
lant Operations
12.       Labor Use.  The total milk processing industry, including dairies,
dairy-related industries, and the milk product distribution system, is es-
tinated to employ about 40,000 to 60,000 workers. The work is labor intensive
and mechanization has not been rapid due to low labor costs and the large
number of small dairies. Much of the work which is normally mechanized in
the US and Europe is done by hand in Brazil.
13.       Environment.  The waste water from the dairies is normally disposed
of without any treatment.  Part of the whey, especially from the larger dairies,
is also often discharged, thus raising the degree of pollution of the waste
water over the level prescribed by existing regulations, which are adequate.
DIPOA would approve the general design of new installations under the project,
including the design of appropriate disposal facilities.
.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
14.       Profitability.  The Government of Brazil regulates the price of
milk, both to the producers and to the consumers. The margin to the dairies
is based on a standard calculation of their average production costs but it
does not allow the dairies to earn any significant profit on milk pasteuriza-
tion and packing. Therefore, nearly all dairies produce butter, cheese, and
other products for which the prices are not regulated and the profit margin
is larger. Average profit margins are thus sufficient to provide adequate
investment incentives.
15.       Management and Training.  The large cooperatives and private com-
pvaies have efficient and progressive management, while the medium sized, and
especially the small dairies, appear to be rather weak in these areas. Brazil
does not have any advanced education in milk technology or processing in spite
of the long tradition of its milk industry.
Investment Demand
16.       The dairy sector has, during recent years, put more emphasis on
diversified production. The investments planned by processors during the
next three years would therefore primarily be used for diversification as
well as for some facilities oriented primarily toward powdered milk. The
production of powdered milk and, to a lesser extent, cheese increases the
utilization of excess milk during the wet season and helps to even out the
supply of milk products to the market.  Diversification would raise the profit-
ability of processors and permit increased prices to producers.
Availability of Funds
17.       The state development banks have played an active role in providing
long-term financing to the milk processing industry in the last few years.
Some credit is also available from the National Cooperative Credit Bank, but
it is mostly short-term, for working capital. Short-term financing of work-
ing capital is also available from the commercial banks. The remaining
requirements, which are substantial, are either met from internally generated
funds or needed investments are not undertaken. Additional funds, partic-
ularly for long-term needs, would be utilized readily by the industry.
Equipment Supply
18.       The major European and US equipment suppliers for dairies are re-
presented in Brazil, either through agencies or subsidiaries, and have contri-
buted to the development of a competitive and rather complete supply system.
About 80% of the equipment for regular milk processing lines and up to 50
to 60% of that needed for cheese and yoghurt processing plants are manu-
factured in Brazil. Stainless steel for the equipment is imported. Brazil
seems to have an adequate number of skilled consultants working in the dairy
field and, in addition, some processing knowledge is provided through the
equipment suppliers. For more advanced processing systems, the manufacturers
normally deliver complete lines, including the training of technicians.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
C. Marketing
19.       Mllk products represent an important import of Brazil, totalling
about US$14 million for powdered milk, butter, and cheese in 1970. Brazil
is not expected to become an exporter of milk products in the foreseeable
future.
20.       About 23% of total domestic consumption of powdered milk between
1964 and 1970 was imported. During this period, there was a gradual and
limited decline in this percentage, from 26.7% in 1964 to 22.1% in 1970.
Quantity imported has not followed any consistent trend, mostly because the
product has served essentially as a substitute for pasteurized fresh milk,
but FAO projections indicate an increase in the import requirement to 660,000
tons by 1976. 1/ Imports of butter during the same period averaged around 7%
of total domestic consumption, although annual ratios vary greatly and fail
to reveal any discernible trend. Volume of imports also fails to show any
meaningful pattern. Cheese imports comprised about 0.5% of total domestic
consumption from 1964 to 1970, registering a marked upward trend over this
period, while quantity imported rose ten-fold, from about 60 tons in 1964
to 580 tons, or an annual growth rate of about 46% (Appendix 4-2).
21.       Domestic consumption,of pasteurized fresh milk (which is neither
imported nor exported) has grown from about 209,000 tons in 1954-55 to about
1.1 million tons in 1970-71, or an annual growth rate of 10.7% (Appendix 4-1).
Compared with a population growth rate of less than 3% during the period,
this means a substantial increase in per capita consumption of pasteurized
fresh milk. Consumption of condensed milk, another product which is not
imported or exported, did not vary much (Appendix 4-1).
22.       Domestic consumption of powdered milk, which seems to be an
inferior substitute for pasteurized fresh milk, exhibits the following pat-
tern: whenever production (hence, consumption) of pasteurized fresh milk
was low, domestic consumption of powdered milk would register an appreciable
increase, the opposite being true whenever pasteurized fresh milk output was
high. Domestic consumption rose from 74,000 tons in 1964 to 99,000 tons in
1970 (Appendix 4-2). Mostly because of a decline in domestic production,
total apparent domestic consumption of butter had been falling from 33,300
tons in 1964 to 18,000 tons in 1970, an annual rate of decrease of about 9.3%.
Although no data are available, this fall in butter consumption may be part-
ially explained by increases in consumption of substitutes such as margarine
and cheese and processed cheese spread. Large increases in apparent domestic
consumption of soybean oil from 1964 to 1970 tend to support the argument as
does the rapid rise in cheese imports, coupled with about 4% annual growth-
in per capita cheese consumption. Domestic cheese consumption rose from about
41,000 tons in 1964 to 62,000 tons in 1970, an annual growth of about 7.1%.
1/   FAO, Projections of Agricultural Production, 1970-1980, Vol. I, 1971.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
23.       Average wholesale prices of milk and milk products are shown in
Appendix 4-3. As indicated, the real price of unprocessed fresh milk hardly
changed between 1956 and 1970. This is also essentially true with condensed
milk and pasteurized fresh milk, both of which registered no imports or e>:-
ports during the period covered. Powdered milk and cheese, on the other hand,
showed marked increases, although declines occurred in the later years of
the series. CIF prices, expressed in current US dollars, of imported powdered
milk, butter, and cheese between 1964 and 1970 are presented in Appendix 4-2.
The price of powdered milk imports rose from US$260.5/ton in 1964 to US$614.0/
ton in 1970, an annual increase of about 16%. Butter price, on the other
hand, has a more erratic pattern over this period; however, between the two
terminal years, average price dropped from US$834/ton to US$750/ton, a decline
of 1.8% per year. Cheese CIF price was also erratic during the same period,
registering an overall increase between the two terminal years of 0.9%, from
US$803.6/ton in 1964 to US$847.5/ton in 1970 (Appendix 4-2).
24.       Due to lack of data on average prices of domestically produced
milk products, it is not possible to draw very meaningful comparisons of
absolute prices in recent years. The 22% import component of powdered milk,
valued at US$13.5 million, plus US$537,000 worth of cheese and butter imports,
in 1970 point to significant opportunities for import substitution in the
milk processing industry. Import substitution in powdered milk, butter, and
cheese would not only contribute towards substantial foreign exchange savings
but it is also economically feasible.  As Appendix 4-4 shows, powdered milk
and cheese could hardly be said to enjoy any effective protection from imports; W
on the contrary, for many years the average prices of domestically produced
powdered milk and cheese stayed lower than the average CIF prices of corres-
ponding imports. Butter enjoys rather substantial protection, however.
25.       Projections of the domestic demand for the three milk products
currently imported are shown in Appendix 4-5. Comparison of these projections
for 1976 with consumption levels for 1970 indicate the following growths (in
percent):
Powdered             /1
Milk        Butter-        Cheese
1970 to 1976 - overall                 55.8         197.2         101.7
Average per year                   7.7          14.6          12.4
1970 to 1978 - overall                 79.0         241.5         131.7
Average per year                   7.6          13.1          11.1
1970 to 1980 - overall                105.7         292.4         166.2
Average per year                   7.5          12.1          10.3
/1   The base year figure is not for 1970 but the average for 1966-70.
These growth projections suggest additional opportunities for
import substitution in these products.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
D. Financial Models
26.       General.  The powdered milk plant, Model A, can be regarded as a
typical milk processing plant situated in an area with high production of
milk but distant from any major consumer center. The capacity of the plant
is about 70,000 liters of milk per day, but, due to seasonal fluctuations in
the supply of milk, the plant is assumed to utilize 70% of spray drying cap-
acity during June-September. Besides the production of skim milk powder,
butter is manufactured from the milk fat separated from the milk.
27.       The diversified dairy, Model B, is a typical dairy providing an
urban center with milk products. The product mix is standard. The average
daily intake of 30,000 liters of milk is assumed to vary between 25,000
liters during the dry season to 3;3,000 liters in the wet season. Included
in the investment cost is the cost of training technicians abroad in the
processing of cheese and other milk products.
28.       All of the output would be sold on the domestic market.  Since the
prices of Type C 1/ liquid milk are regulated from the producer to the con-
sumer and leave only a small margin to the processor, the viability of the
enterprises depens on the higher margins obtained on other products. In
order to compare the efficiency and financial viability of the powdered milk
plant with operations outside Brazil, the international price for skim milk
powder has been used instead of the domestic price, which is higher. All
prices are assumed to remain constant.
1/   Milk is graded according to bacterial content.  Type C is the normal
grade sold in Brazil, Type B is produced by a few hygienic dairies,
and Type A is almwst non-existent.
0






*                                                                                                                  *9,
10~, 0                                             ,,.
x    O   r   '1  I°bf
-K~~~~~~ F
.    00                 000        0        0       0000                       0-    CO                                                            N   D   tX       - =  F0    - w c  
00 -     1 oOO                          0       0-      00000 0*0              0- o                                                                                           - Dg w= = gcw~r w r 7    r7
thg gg Co H                                                                   0             0                                       0 0          0       0               000
re ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     - rl  a- F~ m' H   ,_  o
*-O~  0.                                              0- 7                              _0
0r     00                          -            CO _-          0                                           8   0.0= X-1                                ===                  r
00    0                                                                                                                                                                                                             0 i-1          tSl       00 ww8NN 'X ¢       
00   =                                                                                       00-ae C    
6J 11'                                                                                                                                                                O
..o 00                          0t 0(1                                                                            COI    - 0                                                    O
00~~~H 0                                                                                                                                 =-"        C(  -00
0  00                                                                  CO                 0   0   0   0                                 0              0   0 W0H 
0-0~~~~~~~~                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00  0  w   0-  0  w-  0   5         0-              P
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 0                                                        S-   o oC  o 0 D 0-U000S o o0         S lo   0
0-   0   -~ °o0-000                           - g00l                     o        og . 9     
00-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~| 00-                                    co         n 0-   0   0-  0     00-000-0-0-0             0     t 00
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 H0                               0                      w 0   0    0  0D 000000-                  0       00    0    ;C o k  






*                                                                                                    *we
¢                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Model A: Diversified Dairy; Capacity.30,OOD i/day
mdel           ~~~(Cc$ '000)
0u                                                  Year 1         Year 2          Year 3            Year 4         Near 5           Year 6        Year 7            Year 8          Year 9          Year 10                       Year 12-15
Percent Utilization           0              70              100              100             100              100           100              100             100             loo           tOo                100
Financial Rate of Return Analysis
Investment                                3,210              -
Gross Revenue:
Consumer milk 12                          -             960            1,370            1,370           1,370           1,370          1,370            1,370           1,370             1,370         1,370              1,370
Cheese - butter  -/                       -           5,114            7.306            7,306           7.306           7,306          7.306            7,306           7.306             7306         7,306              7,306
Total                              -           6.074            8.676             8.676          8 -676          8.676          8,676            8,676            8,676            8,676         8,676               ,676
Operating Costs-Direct                       -            4,720            6,744            6,744          6,744            6,744         6,744             6,744           6,744            6,744          6,744             6,744
Indirect                  100             255             255               255            255             255            255               255             255              255            255               255
ICM                                          -              547              781              781             781             781            781              781             781              781            781                781
Total                         -            5,522            7.780            7.780          7.780           7,780          7.780             7,780           7.780            7,780          7,780               ,780
Operating Profit                             -              552              896              896             896             896            896              896             896               896           896                896
Depreciation (DO years)                      -              316              316              316             316             316            316              316             316               316           316                 -
Interest on PB Subloan 3/                     64            128              128              108              90              72             52,              36              18                -
Net Profit before Tax                       (164)           108              452              472             490             508            528              544             562               580           580                896
Income Tax 4/                                -               32              136              142            147             152            158               163             169              174            174                269
Net Profit after Tax                         (164)           76              312              330             343             356            370              381             393               406           406                627
Net Cash FloW                             (3,210)           520              760              754             749             744            736              733             727               722            722               627
Souurces ard Uses of Funds
Sources:         5
Yr Sub-loan -                           2,528             -               -                -               -               -              -                -               -                 -
Sub-borrowers' Contribution  -            846             -               -                -               -               -              -                -               -                 -
I.b total                   3.374                             -                -               -               -              -                -                -
Cash Flow from Operations                 -              S20              760              754             749             744            738              733             727               722            722               627
Total                     3,374             520              760              754             749             744            738              733             727              722             722               627
Uses:
Investment                             3,310              -               -                -               -
Debt Service
Interest                             64            128              128              108              90              72             52               36               18
Principal                            -              -               361              361             361             361            361              361             362
Total                       3,374            128              489              469             451             433            413               397             380              -
tasut Position  - Annual                     (846)           392              271              285             298             311            325               336             347              722             722               627
- Cumulative                (846)          (454)            (183)             102             400             711          1,036            1,372            1,719            2,441          3,163              5,i71 7/
Financial Rate of Return:   19%
1/     Wholesale price milk (type C),Cr$0.74 per 1.
2/     Wholesale price cheese,average Cr$7.40 per kg.  Wholesale price butter average Cr$7.50 per kg.
3/      Interest rate 5% in real value.
4/      30% on profit.
5/     Sub-loan 80% of investment cost (excluding cost of land) for eight years, including one year grace.
6/      20% of investment Cost plus cost of latud.
7/     Year 15
so O



ANNEX 4
Page 10
MODEL B: Powdered Milk Processing Plant
Capacity, Yield,. and Annual Throughput                                                          Investment Costs
(Cr$ '000)
Nominal Capacity                   =            70,000 1 per 24 hr                                                                        Total       Foreign Exchange Component
1,                                                                     Cot             %)             (Amount)
Milk (processed)                            20,000,000 1 per year -
Ski. Milk Powder                             1,760,000 kg per year -                             Land                                        50
Civil Works:
Butter                            '            820.000 kg per year                                                  1
Machine Halls            2/           380             10               38
General Areas, Storage                270             10               27
Sub-total, Civil Works           650             10               65
Equipment:
Separator - Pasteurizer               420             25              105
Fabrication of Butter                 440             20               88
Evaporator                          1,450             55              798
Spray Drier                         1,060             55              583
Tanks and Pipes                       360             20               72
Cold Storage                          150             15               23
Pecking and Weighing                  130             55               72
Vehicles                               60             25               15
l/  Assuoing 320 working days during tie year (during June-September                                 Boilers and Transformers              120             30               36
the plant is only sarkinlg uith 70Y of full spray erying capacfty).                             Laboratory Equipment                    50             50               25
2/  1V,0 I milk (3.307Y fat) gives about 88 kg skin milk powder (1Y fat)                                                                   200             20               40
and 41 kg butter.                                                                                    Sub- total. Equipment          4,440             42            1,857
Installation                           1,000             10              100
Feasibility Study and Engineering         700            -                -
Contingencies, 10                        685             30              206
TOTAL                                            30            2,228
I/ 88Om2
_/ 580l2
Operating Costs (Including Coat of Milk)
(Cr$ '000 per year)
Direct Costa
Labor Production-                                                         230
Social Cost                                                               103
Raw Material
Milk 2/
Lr2 season - 4 mouths (quota milk)
Industrial nilk                          5,200,000 1               2,392
Wet season - 8 months -/
Industrial milk, quota                  10,360,000 1               4,766
san-quota                 4,440,000 1                1,376
Utilities                                                                 135
Cleaning Materials, Additives                                              20
Packing Materials                                                          60
Maintenance                                                               225
Sales Coats                                                               150
Sub_total                                                    9,457
Cost for Working Capital                                                   44
9,301
Indirect Costs
Administration (including salaries)                                       340
Maintenance                                                                20
Insurance                                                                  41
Miacellaneous                                                              20
421
53 Persons
2/ Milk prices: Industrial milk, quota Cr$0.46 pee 1.
Industrial milk,non-qsota Cr$0.31 per 1.
3/  Quota milk, 70% of total production under wet season.                                                                                                 0
Non-quota milk,30% of total production under wet season.
March 25, 1973



ANEBX 4
page 11
MODEL B   Powdered Mslk ProcessinS Plant, Capacity, 70,000 l/day
Financial Analysis
(Cr0' 000)
Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5        Year 6       Year 7        Year 8       Year 9         Year 10       Year 11       Year 12-15
Perceet Utilization           0            70         100           o0          too         1ioo          100           100          100;100 100                                   100
Financial Rate of Return analy_~i -
Investment                                   7,525          -           -             -            -            -            -              _            _                    -                      _
Gross Revenu
Skim Milk Povd.r/                             -          4,435      6,336        6,336        6,336        6,336         6,336         6,336         6,336         6,336         6,336            6,336
Butter            2                           -          4,305      6,150        6,150        6,150        6,150         6,150         6,150         6,150         6,150         6,150            6,150
Total                                    8 5,740    12,466      12,486       12,486       12,486        12,486        12,486       12,486         12,486        12,486           12,486
Operating Costs:
Direct                                        -          6,651      9,501        9,501        9,501        9,501         9,501          9,501        9,501         9,501          9,501           9,501
Ind'rect                                      _            421        421          421          421          421           421            421          421           421            421             421
nd                                                         497        710          710          710          710           710            710          710           710            710             710
Total                         -          7,433    10,632        10,632       10,632       10,632        10,632        10.632       10,632         10.632        10,632           10,632
Operating Profit                                -          1,307      1,854        1,854        1,854        1,854          1,854         1,854        1,S54          1,854         1,854           1,854
Depreciation (10 years)                         -             752       752          752          752          752            752           752          752            752           792              -
Interest an PB sub-loan  4/                     150          301        301          258          215          172            29             06           43             -
Net profit before Tan                           (150)        (118)      801          844          887           930           973         1,016        1,059          1,102         1,102            1,852
Income Tare                                     -              -        241          254          267          280            292           305          318            331           331              556
Net Profit after Tax                            (150)        (118)      560          590           620          650           681           711           791           771           771            1,296
Net Cash Flow                               (7,675)        1,307      1,613        1,600        1,587        1,574          1,562         1,549        1,536          1,523         1,523            1,298
Sosrce, and Uses of Fund,
Sources
PB  SusnIon   6/                         5,980            -          -            -            -            -             _              -            -              -            -                -
Sub-Sorrowaer 's Contribeti-o            1,695            -          -
Sub-total                 7,675            -          -
Cash Flow from Operatiens                       -          1.307      1,613        1,600        1,587         1,574         1,562         1,549        1,536          1,523         1,523            1,298
Total                     7,675         1,307      1,613        1,600        1,587        1,574         1,562         1,549         1,536         1.523          1,523           1,298
UOes
Investment                                 7,525
Debt Service
Interest                                   150           299        299          256          214          171           128             86           43
Principal                                   -             -         854          854          854          854            854           854          856                    -                      -
Total                     7,675           299      1,153        1,110        1,068        1,025           982            940          899
Cash Position
Annual                                    (1,695)        1,008        460          490          519           549           580           609          637          1,523         1,523            1,298
Cumulative                                (1,695)          (687)      (227)         263          782        1,331         1,911         2,520        3,153          4,680         6,203           11,395 -
Financial Rate ot Return: 177.
1/  World market price (October 1971) for ckinl milk  powder, US$60 per 100 kg, equdvalcnt to Cr$3,600 per ton.  The price is essumed to be stable over the
nest 10 years.
2/  Doneatie price for butter - Cr$7.50/kb.
3/  Including itcentives,the ICM tam is on raw material,  3.2/; ITC  tam is on finished products,  7.117%; No ICM tam is calculated en skin milk powder due
to the use of serld market price.
4/  Interest rate, 5% in real value, includes con-mituent fee.
5/  At 30% om  profit.
6/  Sub-loan, 807 of invc-tmeot cost (tcridiof rout ol land) tot eight yearn, including ouf vaea  of grace.
7/  Year 15
March 25, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 12
E. Investment Demand Under The Proiect
29.       For milk processing, the demand seen by the participating banks
greatly exceeds the estimate of the consultants, suggesting that the need
for funds is strong and that there are probably sufficient viable sub-
projects to warrant the provision of funds on a scale recommended by the
consultants. The consultants' estimate is that included in the proposed
project. The following are project investments estimated by the consult-
ants and by the participating banks for the project period (Cr$ million):
Participating
Consultants         Banks
Rio Grande do Sul                        6                 23
Santa Catarina                           -                  -
Parana                                   7                 26
Sao Paulo
Mato Grosso
Goias                                    6                 13
Minas Gerais                            24                 49
Espirito Santo                          11                 21
Rio de Janeiro                            1                 1
Total                              55               133
Project Estimate:                       55
0






*                  j                                *0
BRAZIL
CD
AGRO-INDWSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
0'                                                      Milk Processing
<                                 -                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/
Milk and Principal Milk Products -  Quantity and Value of Production-
H                          ~~~~~~~~(Quantities in '000 tons; value in 1L971 Cr$ millions)T~
Fresh Milk
Year      (Farm Output)        Condensed Milk      Powdered Milk       Pasteurized Milk          Butter             Cheese
Qty       Value      Qty       Value      Qty     Value       Qty        Value       99       Value       t     Value
1954      n.a.     n.a.        20.56    49.60      18.06   43.56       208.8       97.93      24.10   143.52    32.05   122.89
1955      n.a.     n.a.        20.35    58.48      18.04   62.22       208.5       91.02      28.04   172.97    32-04   133-73
1956     4,115    1,695        24.91    59.90      21.61  103.66       229.1      107.79      28.19   161.20    33.85   120.14
1957     4,274    1,736        15.91    33-.15     26.02  108.45       273.9      112.18      26.98   179.27    34.19   111.59
1958     4,464    1,923        19.01    49.28      28.74  128.06       313.0      151.24      30.38   178.84    40.77   148.13
1959     4,648    1,784        17.94    43.47      33.41  171.02       334.2      139.93      28.92   155.87    38.60   135.83
1960     4,900    2,121        18.52    54.04      33.71  168.72       364.0      154.79      25.32   211.24    39.46   181.67
1961     5,070    2,344        16.50    50.08      38.44  210.61       383.0      181.39      26.34   200.41    36.01   208.11
1962     5,295    2,461        21.79    65.36      44.38  222.69       465.0      271.84      29.78   210.37    40.35   239.45
1963     5,383    2,383        19.31    54.68      47.55  182.66       44-83      179.59      22.04   113.53    36.34   165.64
1964     5,150    2,966        14.66    43.80      53.75  246.15       478.o      244.14      25.37   152.68    41.09   201.47
1965     6,571    2,794        17.19    42.47      55.72  204.27       691.3      270.02      24.75   147.42    36.84   171.83
1966     6,688    2,966        20.30    47.95      69.79  258.77       449.6      208.21      25.02   128.95    42.74   192.39
1967     6,703    2,786        20.58     n.a.      79.20   n.a.        276.6       n.a.       33.15    n.a.      55.88    n.a.
1968     6,909    2,849        24.88     n.a.       90.16   n.a.       294.5       n.a.       21.37    n.a.      54-49    n.a.
1969     7,035    2,829        10.62     n.a.      50.64   n.a.        986.o       n.a.       19.97    n.a.      57-84    n.a.
1970     7,132    3,013        24.29     n.a.      77.38   n.a.        998.7       n.a.       18.55    n.a.      61.61    n.a.
1971      n.a.     n.a.         n.a.     n.a.       'n.a.   n.a.     1,127.6       n.a.        n.a.    n.a.       n.a.    n.a.
/ These figures appear to refer only to production reported to DIPOA and not to total production in Brazil.
Source:  Fundaoao IRGE, Anrarlo Estatistico do Brasil, various issaus.
MG-, p         doeEns             iacao-   Industria d Laticinias, August 1972.



BRAZIL
P,j                              ~~~~~~~~~Agro-Industries Credit Project
r_                                                     Milk Processing
Milk Products--Imports and Apparent Domestic Consumptiun
(Quantities in '000 tons; total values in US$ 000; average prices in US$/ton)
H    Imports
Powdered Milk                             Butter                              Cheese
Year     Quantity  Total     Average            Quantity   Total     Average        Quantity   Total      Average
Value      Price                        Value      Price                    Value        Price
1964       19.88   5,178      260.49               7.97    6,643       834.02          o.o6       45       803.57
65       21.53   6,802      315.93               0.09       73       820.22          0.01        5       555.56
66       24.55  10,329      420.68               0.01        9       818.18          0.09       69       741.94
67       25.64  12,368      482.37               0.02       23    1,150.00           0.16     174      1,060.98
68       14.87   8,368      562.74               4.47    1,843       412.12          0.48     538      1,113.87
69       12.15   6,674      549.30               0.32      216       668.73          0.36      332       909.59
70       22.00  13,510      614.01               0.06       48      750.00           o.58     489        847.49
Apparent Domestic Consumption -/
Powdered Milk                      Butter                       Cheese
Year               Quantity    % Imported         Quantity    % Imported      Quantity     % Imported
1964                 73.63       26.7               33.34       23.9            41.15          0.1
65                 77.25       27.9               24.84        0.4            36.85          0.03
66                 94.34       26.o               25.03        0.04           42.83         0.2
67                104.84       24.5               33.17        0.06           56.04         0.3
68                105.03       14.2               25.84       17.3            54.97         0.9
69                 62.79       19.4               20.29        1.6            58.20         0.6
70                 99.38       22.1               18.61        0.3            62.19         0.9
1/  Production plus imports.  There are no reported exports on these products.
Source:  Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues.
*                                                   0 



** 
BRA-ZIL
o                                           Agro-Industries Credit Project
\                                                  Milk Processing
Milk and Principal Milk Products -- Average Wholesale Prices
(1971 Cr$/kg)
2/              2/
Year              Unprocessed      Condensed      Powdered      Pasteurized         Butter        Cheese
Fresh Milk         Milk           Milk        Fresh Milk 1/
1954                 n.a.            2.41           2.41           0.47              5.96          3.83
55                n.a.             2.87           3.45           0.44              6.17          4.17
56                 0.41            2.40           4.80           0.47              5.72          3.55
57                 0.41            2.08           4.17           0.41              6.64          3.26
58                 0.43            2.59           4.46           0.48              5.89          3.63
59                 0.38            2.42           5.12           0.42              5.39          3.52
60                 0.43            2.92           5.01           0.43              8.34          4.60
61                 0.46            3.04           5.48           0.47              7.61          5.78
62                 0.46            3.00           5.02           0656              7.06          5.93
63                 0.44            2.83           3.84           0.40              5.15          4.56
64                 0.58            2.99           4.58           0.51              6.02          4.90
65                 0.43            2.47           3.67           0.39              5.96          4.66
66                 0.44            2.36           3.71           0.46              5.15          4-50
67                 0.42                           3.53                             5.67          5-87
68                 0.41                           3.44                             8.23          7-04
69                 0.40                           3.36                             4.56          5.26
70                 0.42                           3.53                             5.96          5.68
1/ 1967-70   figures are estimated derived by multiplying the average of the annual
ratios of powdered milk prices to umprocessed fresh milk prices from 1963 to 1966
by the corresponding unprocessed milk prices in 1967- 70.
2/ 1954-66   figures are frcm  Source 1 and 1967-70 figures are from Source 2. For the
later years, the data for butter refer to the -ype classified as "commonl" while
those for cheese are weighted averages of five different oheeses.
Sources:                (1)  Appendix 4-1
(2) BDMG, Programa de Expandao e Modernizacaco da
Industria de Laticinios, August 1972, p. 76.



Appendix -44
BRAZIL
AGRO-fNlSTRIES CREDIT PROJEC1
Milk Processing                                      0
?flk Products--Implicit Protection on
Domestic Processing of y&wiedred
Milk, Butter and Cheese
(all Values in i951 Cr$*M  )
Average         Average Wholesale  Implicit Protection
CIF Price            Price of
Of Imports        Domestic Produce         in %
Powdered Milk    (A) -c (B/A-1}                                    (C/B-1)
1964          2.90    3.39           4.58            58%         35%
65          2.69     -             3.67             -           _
66          2.59    2.33           3.71            43          59
67          2.83    2.24           3.53            25          56
68          3.75    2.01           3.44            -8          71
69          3.45    2.13           3.36            -3          58
70          3.66    2.01           3.53            -4          76
Butter
1964          9.27    9.96           6.02                       -40
65          6.98     -             5.96             _           _
66          5.05    5.05           5.15             2           2
67          6.76    4.69           5.67           -16          21
68          2.75    4.84           8.23           199          70
69          4.20    4.52           4.56             9           1
70          4.47    4.49           5.96            33          33
Cheese
1964          8.93    8.49           4.90           -45         -42
65          4.73     -             4.66             _           _
66          4.58    5.35           4.50            -2         -16
67          6.23    5.16           5.87            -6          14
68          7.43    5.85           7.04            -5          20
69          5.71    5.83           5.26            -8         -10
70          5.05    5.95           5.68            12          -5
1/ Taken from Appendlx 4-2.
2/ Average CIF importing countries.
Source: FAO, The State of Food and Agriculture, Rome,1971.
3/ Taken from Appendix 4-3.
0
March 8, 1973



BRAZIL
Agro-Industries Credit Project
Milk Processing
Nilk Products--Forecast Of Domestic Demand, 1973-1980
V0ons)
Powdered
Milk             _      ___           __he_s _
1973       122,085               57,618              98,874
4       132,804               62,677             107,555
5       124L,463              68,180             116,998
6       154s,850              73,082             125,410
7      165,984                78,337             134,427
8       177,918               83,968             144,092
9       190,710               90,005             154,452-
1980       204,422               96,476             165,557
Source: BDMG, Programa de iDmaSo e N'dernizacao da
Industria de Lt47 *±a Aifuat 1972, R. 86
*      March 8, 1973






ANNEX 5
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Miscellaneous Food and Feed Processing
Table of Contents
Pasge No.
Production                   ..... . . ..   1
The Industry ..........                                            1
Structure....  1
Plant Operations ....................                       2
Investment Needs ...     ... .. .................           3
Availability of Funds 3...........................          3
Equipment Supply ..                                         3
Marketing ..........4
Financial Model .....................00                         4
Investment Demand Under The Project. ..................         8
Appendices:
5-1   Citrus and Manioc
Area Cultivated, Yield and Production
5-2   Export of Orange Juice and Castor Oil
5-3   Concentrated Orange Juice - Exports by
Country of Destination, 1969 and 1970






ANNEX 5
Page 1
A.  Production
w   1.    Since citrus fruit juice processing has good prospects for future
of production and exports, it has been chosen as an example of the type of
operation which would be included in the miscellaneous category.
2.        Oranges constitute the most important citrus fruit expected to
serve as inputs in the citrus fruit juice processing facilities. Annual
production grew from an average 6.2 billion fruits in 1952-54 to 15.6 billion
fruits in 1969-71, an average yearly growth rate of 5.5%. Area planted rose
by 5.8% annually, thus explaining a slight decrease in yield. Lemon produc-
tion rose by 7.6% per year, from 0.41 billion fruits to 1.32 billion fruits,
between 1952-54 and 1968-70. Area planted grew at a somewhat slower pace
during this period, at 6.0% per year, accounting for the increase in annual
yield from 94,000 fruits/ha to 118,000 fruits/ha. Tangerine farm output
increased at an annual rate of 4.8%, from 1.08 billion fruits to 2.30 billion
fruits, between 1952-54 and 1968-70. Area planted rose by 5.6% per year
during this period, accounting for the decline in average yield (Appendix
5-1). The growth prospects of citrus fruit production appear good as domestic
demand grows stronger with rising income, and juice concentrate exports
experience rapid growth.
B. The Industry
Structure
3.        General.  The first modern export-oriented citrus processing plant
was constructed in Brazil in 1963, closely following the 1962 freeze in
Florida, which pushed prices up to an attractive level. Since then, the
production and enxport of concentrated orange juice has grown rapidly. Sao
Paulo is the main producer of citrus fruit and has the highest concentration
of industries based on this fruit, while Minas Gerais is second. New areas
have been planted in Rio Grande do Sul and Espirito Santo which will come
into production over the period 1973-75. Practically all the large farms
producing citrus are diversified and devote land to other crops, while many
of the farms with less than 20 ha specialize in fruit growing.
4.        Ownership and Size.  Citrus fruit juice processing is at present
dominated by a relatively few large, vertically integrated companies that are
well adapted to exploiting the export market. However, the rapid growth of
the domestic market in the next few years and would allow and medium sized
companies to comnpete effectively. In order for a standard plant to be operated
at a profit, the size of the unit has to be comparatively large, due to high
initial cost. Minimum capacity seems to be around 20 to 25 tons of raw material
per hour.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
0
Plant Operations
5.        Processing.  The processing plants are normally situated close to
the production areas and the handpicked oranges are transported by truck,
often in bulk. The normal storage capacity at the factory is adequate to
hold raw material for about three to four days of processing; there is a
great risk that the oranges will spoil if they are held longer. Before the
oranges are processed, they are washed and graded. The washing operation
must be done carefully to clean away the pesticides sprayed on the fruits or
they will contaminate the juice.
6.        Juice is then extracted from the oranges for a normal yield of 40
to 45%. In the same operation, the peel is squeezed and washed in order to
recover the essential oils. The untreated orange juice is screened and
centrifuged to a standardized pulp content before it is concentrated. The
concentration, which is the essential part of the operation, has to be done
with highly efficient equipment in order to avoid degrading the juice. The
concentrate is then deep frozen. The Brazilian firms also make "cutback",
whereby a part of the fresh juice is added to the concentrate to get a better
taste and aroma.
7,        The concentrate is normally sold in skel drums containing about
250 kg. The essential oil is also exported in drums or glass containers,
while the other by-products, such as peel and seeds, are often sold without
further handling to the local market as cattlefeed.
8.        Production Costs.  The cost of establishing new orange plantations
and the cost of production are comparatively low due to low labor wages. A
recent study made in Espirito Santo shows the total cost, up to the fifth
year, of planting a hectare of orange trees (about 215 trees) to be about
Cr$5,000.
9.        In a normal year, the cost of production runs between Cr$3 to Cr$5
per box (one box - 40.8 kg), and during 1972 the processors paid, on average,
about Cr$6 per box for the oranges delivered to the factories, which, when
calculated on a per ton basis, would be US$25. The price per ton in the US
is about US$73 and in Israel, US$20 to US$25. The Israel orange growers,
however, receive subsidies from the Government.
10.       Seasonality.  The orange harvest for processing in most areas lasts
about eight to 10 months, starting in early May and running until the follow-
ing December-January. This is a rather long harvest period, compared to,
for example, Israel, where it occurs between late December and April. Since
most orange plantations are not irrigated, production is dependent on rainfall,
and the Sao Paulo citrus zones frequently suffer from dry conditions. To
improve the yield and avoid yearly fluctuations, more irrigation systems are
being installed.
.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
11.       Labor Use.  The production of oranges is, with its spraying, picking,
and fertilizing, quite labor intensive. The processing plants also use large
numbers of workers since they operate on a 24-hour basis and need people in
the receiving and grading sections.
12.       Environment.  The pollution from a citrus juice factory is low,
since the by-products are used for feed and there is little effluent to be
discarded.
13.       Profitability.  The profitability of orange juice processing plants
is very dependent on the production costs of the oranges and the price to the
processors. The domestic market for fresh fruit is strong so the processors
buy their raw material in a competitive market. Due to a rather stable world
market price, and a good market for the Brazilian concentrate, processors
have done well in recent years. The long-term price projections for fruit
juice concentrate show an increasing trend, but this would probably affect
the price to the producers more than the profit of the processing companies.
14.       Management and Training.  Processing'operations in Brazil are highly
automated and production is somewhat standardized. Due to the advanced
technical machinery used, it is necessary to have adequate mechanical and
electrical engineers to supervise the operations. Management personnel seem
to be of high standard, and workers employed by the industry normally receive
training at t'he factory. Since nearly every factory performs its own quality
control, the analysts must be well trained.
Investment Needs
15.       The production of oranges and orange juice concentrate has increased
steadily, and it seems probable that Brazil can continue to expand its share
of the total world market. Investments are needed in processing facilities to
handle the output from the new areas planted.
Availability of Funds
16.       The state development banks have provided most of the long-term
loan financing for the industry, but their funds are limited and more financial
support is needed.
Equipment Supply
17.       Processors have generally purchased both new and replacement equip-
ment from foreign manufacturers, partly as a result of the rapid expansion of
the processing industry and the lower risk in purchasing well-known equipment.
However, Brazilian firms manufacture many components at comparable or lower
cost, and processors may be expected to fill more of their needs with local
equipment as it gains acceptance in the industry.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
C. Marketing
18.       Exports of fruit and vegetable juices have grown dynamically, from
minimal quantities in 1964 to more than an estimated 55,000 tons in 1972, of
which 85% is concentrated orange juice. In 1972, all fruit juices accounted
for 23% by volume but 43% by value, of all fruit exports, compared to
negligible quantities in 1964. Ia 1972, concentrated orange juice accounted
for 87% by volume and 90% by value of all fruit juice exports. The growth
has been in response to strong world demand, particularly from Europe, where
germany (FR) is the most important market and in 1970 took 56.9% of Brazil's
35,400 tons of concentrated fruit juice exports. Canada, the US, Netherlands,
Israel, and Sweden are other large markets.
19.       Brazil's exports of concentrated orange juice rose from about
3,800 tons in 1964 to 33,500 tons in 1970, an annual growth rate of 44%. The
average FOB price of these exports rose from US$376/ton in 1964 to US$455/ton
in 1969-70 (Appendix 5-2). Appendix 5-3 shows the amounts and distribution,
by destination, of Brazil's orange juice exports in 1969 and 1970. With
increasing per capita incomes in these countries, it is expected that their
demand for Brazilian orange juice will continue to increase and assure Brazil
of good export markets for this product into the next decade. Nevertheless,
the international processed fruits market will become more competitive in the
future as world market supplies increase. Brazil must therefore continue to
process up export products, retain and improve the present good quality fruit
and juice, and continue to improve per tree yields.
20.       The domestic market for citrus fruit juice is growing rapidly and
by 1975 may exceed the export market as a result of changing taste and income
patterns among the upper income groups in Brazil.
21.       Cold storage facilities for the export of frozen concentrated
orange juice are only just adequate at the moment, but the situation will
improve with completion of a facility at the port of Santos with a static
capacity of 15,000 tons. Transport networks in the states of Sao Paulo
and Espirito Santo, from the orange producing areas to the ports of Santos
and Vitoria, respectively, are adequate.
D. Financial Model
22.       The model consists of concentrated orange juice processing plant
which would produce exclusively for export: two-thirds of output would be
exported as frozen concentrate; the remaining one-third would be sold as
"hot pack" in cans.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
23.       The capacity of the unit would be about average for Brazilian firms
and would produce a standard product mix. 1/ By utilizing other fruits such
as grapefruit and tangerines, it would be possible to increase the utiliza-
tion of the plant over the year. The only additional cost would be the lease
of different-sized cups for the extraction units.
24.       The unit would be equipped with an aroma recovery system.  The
aroma normally would be sold together with the concentrate, but could be
traded separately. The plant could also produce so-called "cut back", a
concentrate to which fresh juice has been added to improve the flavor. The
production cost and sales price of "cut back" are both slightly lower.
25.       No value has been assumed for the by-products, such as peels and
grits (the central part of the orange). The grits can be used for producing
orange base for soft drinks, but the cost involved in the processing and
transportation of the peels, normally used for livestock feed, often offsets
the additional income.
26.       The price of orange juice concentrate has increased during past
years. However, as a result of increasing production, the price is projected
to fall about 5% between 1972 and 1980.
0
1/   Even if new technologies, such as reverse osmosis and freeze concentra-
tion, have attracted a great deal of interest during recent years, it
is not recommended that these types of units be considered in this opera-
tion, due to high product losses and uncertain operating costs.






ANNEX '
Page 6
ORANGE JUICE PROCESSING
Invest=ent Costs
Capacity, Yield and Ans al Thrasghpatl'                                                                                (Cr$ 'ISO)
Total Cost      Foreign Exchange Conpnoert
(%)          (Am.ount)
Bases of Oranges                       14,400/20 Fours   = 587,000 hi oranges/20 hr.                        Land                                          100               -               -
88,000 tons/year
tOi~i Works:
Orange Juice (12° Brie)                                       12,900 l/hoar
Machine Balls                             1,500              10              150
Orange Juice Concentrate (65° Beis)                        =   7,500 tons                                     General Areas                               450              10              45
Essential Oil                                                    150 tees                                                  SIb-total Civil Works    1,950                 10              195
Acr..  Ctne..tra-r                                         =     150 tens                                    Equip-ent:
Silas sod Reception af F-rits           720              15             108
Cleatnig, Transportation and            415              15              63
Platforns
Finishers                               200            100              200
Separators                              520             30              156
Evaprort-r                            1,400             80            1I'20
Arons Recovery lyster:s                 490             80              390
Plate Cooler                             50             25               13
Poste.r.eer                              15             25                4
Can  Iaking M4chines                    120             80              108
Presser and Coldst-rage              1,260              20               25
Tasks and Peeps                         425             20               85
1/  A-su=ing fire months af prod-ctis  and 15S wrkig days (20 hosts/day)                                        Pipes                                    270             10               '7
Extraction (fi=isher)                   105             100             105
Cctrss Oil Separators                   280             30               84
Boilers                                 290             20               58
Miiscelleneous                         100              15               10
Slob-total Eqoipment      6,660              38            2,561
InstaIlation                         1,770              10              177
F-asibility Study and Engineering   900                 -               -
Contingeucies,107.                    1,140              26             296
'TOTAL                   12520               26            3
Infliling tests
(CrS '000 per year)
Dirmct Cests
Lakbr Productioe                                                      325
Social Coets                                                           145
Raw Materialll                                                     13,200
etergents, Additine                                                     30
Utilitie-                                                             860
Packing 4teriols                                                      540
Leesing Cost for EStr-ct-rs                                           560
Naintenance                                                           200
Tr.anportation and Shipping Casts                                     500
Sales Costs                                                           100
Miscellaneos5
16,510
lest for Working Capital                                         450
16, 960
Indirect Coots
Administration (inc-lding  -slaries)                                   730
Nointenance                                                           100
Insurance                                                              70
Miscellaneouz                                                          50
950
1/ Average price per be CrS6,00 at fact-ry gate.
March 25, 1973






MANE! S
cod
*  O O @ @ O O O s~~~~C                              0   CD  v 4D                                                        nf          L        02   4
_0                      -    4   02  c c                                                '.4 ew   I I I4 1,           4      4
_2           0   C  Cl 4   C   4                                                             nf                    cn  _
_0             O           O O   0   Cc Oc                                                   44 Oc                   4   C   X
I  0   0   C   C   0   0   0   C                c  4              C,            cc      C                       4 , 
00                         4   0                          4<                                    . 
*O0-    O   OO0C4-bfole^  C                                                               c_ - n4o
c-                      C '  g                                                                  n4         4- °   °       02 °            c., .c, ^        
0                          4   02  0                                                           44 r4   nN e >           ro 4    4   02  02
0> 8           S                                                                                n   °4~    -     -   -> 0<   R0
_                     6. <            <;           -1- °        N   o   -        4            cuC.C   4                OC        00         4 0   a
-| o 8 0 > No ;°o o _ tz < O O O G V~~~~~~~n                                                     - -    N.                   0
g~~~~~                      4   2-       -                           4             4 2  oc  ,                                 4o  0  4 ci 
C ~ ~~~ ~    ~~~~~  02S 4)            4                      020                                         44   N .     0 '-  0  0'   0       -
S S    4    < _~~~~~~~~~~~~4 4 4                                                     N         4                4      
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
pin ~~~  4   4   4J                                 4            ccc                      no o0                                      00 o20 AS0 <
- ~ ~~~                                                                 ~ _                                                        00,E 
0   4    04 0_4                                   0 a                                  00         4c                             02    0   f   sf  
20                  4   C   o             O 0 a C   4   0   02      '                         CC      0                      c      -IC---0 -I
lisrch ~         O 25  C1973                                                2                                    22                                        






ANNEX 5
Page 8
E. Investment Demand Under The Project
27.       As in the case of milk processing, the demand seen by the participat-
ing banks for miscellaneous food and feed processing greatly exceeds the
estimate of the consultants, indicating that the need for funds is substantial
and that there are probably sufficient viable sub-projects to warrant the
provision of f.unds on a scale recommended by the consultants. The consultant's
estimate is that included in the proposed project. The following are project
investments estimated by the consultantas and by the PB's for the project
period (Cr$ million):
Participating
Consultants               Banks
Rio Grande                9                      -
Santa Catarina            6                      3
Parana                    6                     82
Sao Paulo                11                     63
Mato Grosso               5                      -
Goias                     5                     31
Minas Gerais             13                      -
Espirito Santo            4                     65
Rio de Janeiro            2                     35
Total               61                   279
Project Estimate:  61
0






0                                                                              B R AOL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Miscellaneous Food and Feed ProcEEin
Citrus and Manioc - Atrea Cultivated, Yield and Production
Oranges                                         Lemon                                         Tangerines                                    Manioc
Year        Area        Yield        Production           Area         Yield        Production           Area        Yield         iroduction           Area         Yield        Production
('00000                                          00. oo                                      ('~00
('000 ha)  fruits/ha) (Million fruits)    (1000 ha)  fruits/ha) (Million fruits)    ( 000 ha)  fruits/ha) (Million fruits)    (X000 ha)  (tons/ha)   (million tons)
1952         76.4        80.0            6,116             4.18         95.2              398             9.70       99.3               963             1,015        12.62           12.81
1953         76.9        80.4            6,177             4.35         94.2             410             10.44      107.3             1,121             1,062        12.66           13.44
1954         76.1        83.9            6,384             4.61         91.7             423             11.32      101.5             1,150             1,102        13.15           14.49
1955         77.7        83.6            6,502             5.11         90.3             462             12.00       98.3             1,180             1,149        12.93           14.86
1956         85.3        80.9            6,897             5.47         91.3             499             12.33       94.5             1,165             1,178        13.00           15.32
1957         87.8        82.5            7,244              5.85        93.8              548            12.77       99.5             1,271             1,193        12.94           15.44
1958         98.3        75.9            7,458              6.53        98.8              645            13.30       96.1             1,277             1,226        12.52           15.35
1959        106.4        75.1            7,993              7.10       102.3              726            14.63       93.3             1,365             1,239        13.37           16.58
1960        112.2        74.5            8,360              7.82       101.6              794            15.87       94.2             1,495             1,342        13.12           17.61
1961        118.8        74.2            8,809              8.11       102.5              832            16.25       96.1             1,561              1,381       13.07           18.06
1962        125.8        73.6            9,255              8.83       102.0              907            17.24        96.0            1,655              1,476       13.44           19.84
1963        138.7        75.9           10,532              9.43       107.8            1,017            17.90       97.0             1,737              1,618       13.75           22.25
1964        143.8        71.5           10,275              9.79       101.9              998            18.60        90.4             1,682             1,716       14.19           24.36
1965        150.3        76.1           11,428             10.19       107.9            1,100            20.72        96.1             1,991             1.750       14.28           24.99
1966        165.4        71.2           11,767             10.34       107.3            1,109            21.30        89.5             1,906             1,780       13.88           24.71
1967        166.7        75.1           12,523             10.71       110.9            1.187            22.97        85.2             1,957             1,914       14.24           27.27
1968        173.2        78.5           13,587             10.90       115.5            1,259             23.88       90.4             2,157             1,998       14.62           29.20
1969        183.1        79.1           14,484             11.11       119.9            1,331            24.81        92.4             2,293             2,029       14.82           30.07
1970        202.0        76.7           15,497             11.41       118.8            1,356            26.31        92.9             2,445             2,025       14.55           29.46
1971        215.8        77.4           16,694                                                                                                           2,041       14.83           30.26
Source:  Fundacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brazil, various issues, and Sinopse Estatistico do Brazil, 1972.                                                                                        x
March 24, 1973






Appendcix 5-2
-BRAZIL
Agro-Industries Credit Project
Miscellaneous Food and Feed Processing
Exports of Orange Juice and Castor Oil
(Quantitifes in '000 tons; total *alues in US$. '000; average prices in Us$/ton)
Orange Juice                               Castor Oil
Year       Quantity  Total  Average                   Quantity           Total  Average
Value    Price            1,000 Tons  As %i of     Value   Price
Production
1964         3.82    ls437   375.69               111.01       83.2    24,435   220.11
65         5.76   1,884   327-08               140.15       82.1    26,753   190.69
66         13.93    4,737  340.o8                95.o4       91.2    22,332   234.97
67         18.65    6,693   358.93               74.65       86.2    23,190   310.66
68        30.10   11,631   386.46               116.34       80.4    36,373   312.66
69        23.24   10,910   469.35               184.29      101.2    45,153   245.0o
70        33.47   14,736  44o.30               153.48        91.8    38,232   249.09
Source: Fumdacao IBGE, Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, various issues.
March 24, 1973






Appendix 5-3
BRAZIL
Agro-Industriea Credit Project
Miscellaneous Food and Feed Processing
Concentrated Orange Juice--Exports by Country
of Destination, 1969 and 1970
1969                    1970
Country of                               Percent of                Percent of
Destination                      Tons      Total         Tons        Total
Federal Republic of Germany  10,957         42          20,10o4       56
Canada                         4,614        18           4,374        12
Holland                         4,386       17           4,209        12
Israel                            684        3           2,I15         6
Sweden                            850        3           1,129         3
United States                  3,527        14           1,109         3
Africa                              0        0             668         2
Great Britain                     514        2             623         2
Belgium                            55        -             284         1
Denmark                           302        1             256         1
Spain                             104        -             163         1
Norway                             94         -            163         1
Hong Kong                           0         0            150         -
France                              0        0              34         -
Japan                               0        0              1          -
Scotland                            0        0               4         -
Finland                            16        -               0         -
Total                     2 0     10                35,396 IF-
Notess (1) Figures above do not include export of orange pulp.
(2) The total figures do not agree with Appendix 5-2 due to
differences in source and possible statistical discrepancy.
Source: Correjo Agro-Pecuario, March 1971.
March 24, 1973






ANNEX 6
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
Monetary Policies and Investment Credit
A. Introduction
General
1.        The National Monetary Council formulates national monetary policy,
and the Central Bank (BC), as the executive agency, is responsible for the
control and inspection of all public and private banks. BC is also responsible
for keeping credit expansion in line with financial policy and for directing
credit to priority areas. The Bank of Brazil (BB), by far the largest com-
mercial bank in the country, is an important instrument of policy and source
of credit, as are the National Bank for Economic Development (BNDE) and the
regional and state development banks. Other important elements in the finan-
cial system are the state and private commercial banks, the Federal Savings
Bank and State Savings Bank, cooperative lending associations, and loan fi-
nance and investment companies.
2.        Funds are available for industrial investment from BC through its
General Fund for Agriculture and Industry (FUNAGRI); BB, although on a limit-
ed scale (loans outstanding for industrial investment at end 1971 totaled
only Cr$554 million - 2.4% of total loan balance); BNDE; and the regional and
state development banks. BNDE's direct industrial investment lending is mostly
in the form of large loans--upwards of Cr$2 million--as it does not have suf-
ficient branch coverage to service a number of small loans. In this category
are included loans from the Fund for Economic Modernization (FRE), which
provides finance for large-scale projects considered vital to the national
economy, and from the Fund for Industrial Modernization and Reorganization
(FMRI), the primary objective of which is to assist in the modernization of
Brazilian industry by financing company mergers and reorganization. The
special Agency for Industrial Financing (FINAME) promotes the manufacture
and marketing of national capital goods. Its loans are channeled through
regional and state development banks as are loans from the Financing Program
for Small and Medium Size Companies (FIPEME), which assists the expansion
and diversification of small and medium sized enterprises. Loans from FIPEME
bear interest at 4% on outstanding balances, with monetary correction cal-
culated according to the ORTN index, and totaled Cr$401 million in 1971,
an increase of 63% in nominal terms over the previous year. In addition to
acting as agents for BC and BNDE funds, most of the regional and state
development banks provide investment credit for industry from their own
resources and from state-financed funds.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Development Banks
3.        The state development banks that would participate in the project-
those of Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Sao Paulo, and Parana-are comparative-
ly new institutions, all of them having been established within the last
decade, some as successors to state development corporations. They are wholly
or nearly wholly owned enterprises of the respective state governments. An-
other participating bank would be the Regional Development Bank of the Extreme
South, which is owned jointly, in equal shares, by the governments of the
states of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, and Santa Catarina. Each bank is gov-
erned by specific laws enacted by the state legislatures but all are subject
of the overall control of BC under the terms of Central Bank Resolution No.
93 of 1968, which regulates the constitution and functions of regional and
state development banks. Resolution No. 93 provides for BC inspection of
development bank accounts and its prior approval of all appointments to Boards
of Directors. It does not permit state banks to operate branch offices but
this limitation does not apply to the regional banks. In any case, it is not
considered to be a constraint on activities. Development banks are permitted
to participate in the equity of other companies up to a limit of 30% of their
capital and free reserves, with the provision that such participation shall
be at the time of formation of the company or when there is an increase in
the company's share capital. The banks are not permitted to trade in equities
and equity investments in any one company and are expected by BC to be for
only a limited period.  The development banks are permitted to borrow up to
an amount equal to 10 times their capital and free reserves, but guarantees
given by the bank, restricted to the equivalent of five times the capital and
free reserves, reduces the borrowing limit by the amount of the guarantees.
The BC regulation limits the term of development bank loans to 12 years.
4.        Resources.  In addition to their own resources, which comprise
capital, accumulated reserves, and, in the case of a few banks, deposits
from the public, development banks have access to various federal and state
funds. The principal sources of Federal funds are BC and the National Devel-
opment Bank (BNDE), although the Fund for Studies and Project Planning (FINEP),
controlled by the Federal Ministry of Planning, is being increasingly used to
finance project feasibility studies. The General Fund for Agriculture and
Industry (FUNAGRI), administered by BC, and the Fund for the Development of
Small and Medium Industry (FIPEME) and the Special Industrial Financing Agency
(FINAME), administered by BNDE, are of particular importance. The ratio
of external funds to own resources has, until recently, been of the order
of 3:1 but this ratio is tending to increase as more external funds beco"e
available, particularly from BNDE.
5.        Policies.  The development banks are important financial agencies
for the implementation of state development policies and constitute a major
source of long-term finance within the respective states. Their operational
activities are greatly influenced by national and, particularly, state
development policies and they are increasingly seeking to identify sectors
and sub-sectors in which investments would have the optimum effect on
development strategy.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
6.        Lending Terms.  Lending rates vary substantially, depending on loan
purposes and source of funds. Most loans are subject to some form of monetary
correction, which may be at a rate fixed at the outset of the loan or fluc-
tuating according to the movements of either the Treasury Bond Index (ORTN),
which is linked to the internal price index, or to the cruzeiro/dollar exchange
rate. Loans from FINEP funds carry an interest rate of 6% per annum to sub-
borrowers, with a monetary correction of 10% on the outstanding balance.
FIPEME-financed loans have an interest rate of 4% per annum on outstanding
balances adjusted for the change in the ORTN index, while long-term loans from
FINAME funds bear interest at 7% per annum on outstanding balances subjected
to ORTN correction. The Banks' margins on externally financed loans are
between 2% and 3% and charges for funds from banks' own resources, which
normally constitute 20% to 30% of the amount of each loan, are generally in
line with the charges on the external funds. Principal and interest payments
are generally made half-yearly and any adjustment is payable on the dates on
which interest falls due.
7.        Reserves for Bad Debts.  The debt collection record of the develop-
ment banks to date has been good.  However, loan portfolios have expanded
rapidly during the past two years, and, since much of the recent lending is
still within the grace period, the present incidence of default in relation
to loan balances outstanding (generally about 1%) may not be indicative of the
true situation. The banks have hitherto relied heavily on loan security cover
(mortgage on real estate or similar assets to a value of up to 160% of the
loan granted) to protect themselves against default and, except for the State
Development Bank of Minas Gerais (para 16), have not established reserves
for bad debts.
8.        Appraisal Procedures.  Participating Development Banks (PDBs) have
established application and appraisal procedures for industrial (including
agro-industrial) loan applications, which are, basically, quite sound. Ap-
plicants are required to complete a questionnaire detailing their existing
operations and proposed investment and if it appears that further investiga-
tion is needed, a feasibility study of the proposed investment is required.
The PDB issues guidelines for the study and, in some cases, provides tech-
nical assistances. Following submission of the feasibility study, the PDB
assigns a team of technical personnel, typically an economist, an engineer,
and a lawyer, and occasionally, a financial analyst, to carry out a detailed
assessment of the applicant and an appraisal of the projected investment.
9.        Weaknesses in the procedure are that feasibility studies are some-
times inadequately prepared, owing to the applicant's lack of expertise and
unwillingness to hire consultant assistance, or, alternatively, that bank
personnel, who are limited in numbers, prepare studies that will later be
appraised by colleagues. Appraisals, while generally well done, pay too little
regard to managerial competence, and financial rates of return are not calculated.
Furthermore, appraisal judgments are influenced by the quality of loan security
cover.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
0
10.       Accounts and Auditing.  PDB's accounting methods are satisfactory
and their accounts are subject to inspection by Inspectoria do Sistema Bancaria
(ISBAN), a department of BC. ISBAN inspections, which are spontaneous and made
not less than once a year, are rigorously pursued but, owing to time and
personnel constraints, are inevitably limited in scope; furthermore, they
do not constitute an audit in the generally accepted sense, being concerned
primarily with ensuring compliance with banking laws and regulations. Each
of the PDBs has also arranged with a reputable audit firm for an additional
audit of its 1972 accounts, such arrangements being entirely at the discre-
tion of the managements of the development banks, since they are not required
by law.
B. Description of Participating Banks
Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (State Development Bank of Minas Gerais)
11.       Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (BDMG) was established in
1962 in Belo Horizonte and commenced operations the following year. Capital
authorized and fully paid is Cr$100 million (to be increased to Cr$150 mil-
lion in 1972).
12.       BDMG, wholly owned by the state government, works in close cooper-
ation with the Institute of Industrial Development of Minas Gerais (INDI) and
within a policy framework laid down by the Administrative Council of the bank.
The Council is composed of the President of the Bank and four other members,
all of whom are nominated by the stat Governor and serve for a period of five
years.
13.       Executive functions of the bank are under the control of the Board
of Directors, comprising the President and four members nominated by the
President and appointed by the state Governor, subject to the approval of
the Central Bank. The directors serve for five years, but, during the bank's
10-year history, it has had seven Presidents (average tenure less than 18
months) and turnover of directors and senior staff has been heavy. The pre-
sent President and his directors, however, have been on the job for two years
and have instituted a complete reorganization of BCMG's structure and methodo-
logy. Under the new system, the bank has three operational divisions -- indus-
trial, mineral, and rural - each under the control of a director. It will
also become more aggressive in furthering its lending activities, taking the
initiative in suggesting possible development investments to selected enter-
prises. As part of its reorganization, BDMG is also establishing, with the
assistance of the audit firm, Arthur Anderson & Co., a training program that
will lead to the setting up of an internal inspection and audit section and
it will train staff in the financial aspects of loan appraisal and supervision.
14.       BDMG lending at end September 1972 totaled Cr$466.7 million (US$83.3
million), of which Cr$397 million was for industrial projects. Cr$128.5
million of the total was from BDMG's own resources and the remainder from



ANNEX 6
Page 5
0
BNDE (Cr$100 mi:llion), BC (Cr$75 million), National Housing Bank (Cr$129 mil-
lion), and other special funds (Cr$34 million).
15.       Prior to the institution of a special campaign in September 1972,
arrears of interest and principal repayments totaled Cr$29 million. During
the first month of the campaign, however, more than half the arrears were
collected and a further substantial amount was brought in October. It was
anticipated that arrears would be cleared by the end of 1972 except for some
old debts totaling about Cr$3 million, the collection of which had been
delayed by slow court procedures. A reserve fund, established in 1972, of
Cr$1 million partially offsets this. Administration costs for 1970/71 were
3.4% of average loan balances. Appendix 7-1 gives further details.
Banco de Desenvolvimento de Espirito Santo (State Development Bank of
Espirito Santo)
16.       Banco de Desenvolvimento de Espirito Santo (BANDES) was established
in Vitoria in January 1970 as the successor to the Economic Development
Corporation of Espirito Santo (CONDES). Capital, authorized and fully paid,
is Cr$24 million, of which more than 98% was subscribed by the state govern-
ment, including Cr$10.03 million in the form of shareholdings in other entities.
17.       BANDES is governed by a Board of Directors, comprising the President
and three other Directors appointed for three-year terms by the shareholders,
effectively the state government, with the approval of BC.  Organizationally,
BANDES has three divisions:  Programs, Operations, and Administration, sub-
divided into departments responsible for resources mobilization, program
studies, project analysis, contracts, accounts, and administration. Staff at
end November 1972 totaled 113 and included 10 economists, three agricultural
engineers, one mechanical engineer, four civil engineers, three lawyers, and
eight accountants. BANDES reportedly has experienced difficulty in recruit-
ing staff with postgraduate qualifications.
18.       While BANDES has access to federal development funds, it can draw
on them only to a limited extent, owing to the restricted amount of its own
loanable resources (42% of capital is represented by equity script). Agencies
responsible for federal development funds normally require that participating
banks provide counterpart funds of the order of 20% to 30% of loans. The
state goverment proposes to increase BANDES' liquidity by waiving its require-
ment that the 6% annual dividend to shareholders be paid in cash, withdrawing
instead an equivalent amount of the equity holdings forming part of BANDES
capital.  The Government also proposes to increase BANDES' share capital by
appropriation of part of the federal income tax refund which Espirito Santo
receives as an underdeveloped state. Normally one-tenth of the 5% of federal
income tax generated in Espirito Santo returned to the state is allocated to
the Fund for the Development of Agro-Industry (FUNDAI), which is administered
by BANDES on behalf of the state government. The 1973 allocation, however,
will be made directly to BANDES to augment its share capital. BANDES also
acts as agent for the State Development Investment Fund from which the state
.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
government provides finance to selected companies, usually in the form of
equity participation.  The fund is kept as a deposit with BANDES, who uses it
to finance short-term lending operations.
19.       BANDES loans outstanding at end September 1972 totaled Cr$88 mil-
lion (US$15.9 million), an increase of 44% over the corresponding figure at
end December 1971. More than 40% of balances outstanding at end September
1972 were for industrial investment loans. Appendix 6-2 is a condensed
balance sheet for 1969-71.
20.       BANDES is a small but energetically managed bank, acutely conscious
of the importance of its role in the economic development of the state. How-
ever, its manpower resources are fully stretched with its existing operations
and, as consultant expertise is not readily available in the state, it would
need particular assistance from BC in the appraisal and administration of
project sub-loans.
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado do Sao Paulo (State Development Bank of
Sao Paulo)
21.       Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado Sao Paulo (BADESP), which is
headquartered in the city of Sao Paulo, was established by the State Govern-
ment of Sao Paulo in June 1970, under the guidance of the National Develop-
ment Bank (BNDE), with an authorized capital of Cr$140 million (initially
Cr$70 million paid up, but now fully paid). The capital is, at present,
wholly owned by the state government, but BADESP's governing legislation
provides that up to 49% of its capital may be owned by the public.  The bank
is a major financial instrument for the implementation of the state's economic
development policies and as such operates within a broad policy framework
established by the State Financial Coordianting Board.
22.       The Board of Directors, comprising a President and four members, is
nominated by the state government, subject to the approval of BC. Members,
who retire by rotation, serve for a four-year period. The directors, all of
whom have had considerable experience in banking and commerce, are full-time
officials of BADESP and are each responsible for one or more of the depart-
ments of the bank, namely Administration, Resources and Capital Markets, Rural
Operations, Industrial Operations, and Special Operations.
23.       BADESP has a staff of 219 (November 1972), of whom 42 are econom-
ists, 11 are engineers, 10 are business administrators, 17 are lawyers, and
eight are agriculturists. The bank maintains a list of approved consultants,
from among whom expertise is hired to supplement that of its own staff in the
appraisal of projects submitted for financing. The approved consultant list
is made available to loan applicants who must submit feasibility studies.
24.       BADESP's resources at end of June 1972 totaled Cr$180 million
(US$32.1 million), and it had loans outstanding in the amount of Cr$99 mil-
lion (US$17.7 million), of which Cr$48 million (US$8.6 million) was for in-
dustrial investment. Appendix 6-3 presents further details. BADESP requires
that loans be secured by a charge on real estate valued at not less than 130%



ANNEX 6
Page 7
of the amount of the loan. Security valuations are normally carried out by
BADESP staff, but, where specialized knowledge is required, professional
valuers are employed. BADESP does not normally provide loans for working
capital in excess of 20% of the borrower's total working capital requirements.
The bank's operations thus far are of too short duration to allow an estimate
to be made of the quality of its lending in terms of repayment experience,
since most loans are still in the grace period.
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Parana (State Development Bank of Parana)
25.       Banco de Deenvolvimento do Parana (BADEP) was established in 1968
in Curitiba as the successor to Parana Economic Development Corporation
(CONDEPAR), which, since 1962, had been involved in primary agriculture and
infrastructural development in the state of Parana. More than 99% of the
Cr$120 million (US$20 million) share capital is directly owned by the state
government while the balance is owned by several state-controlled organiza-
tions. The President of BADEP and its five directors are appointed by the
shareholders, effectively the state government, with the approval of BC.
26.       Organizationally, BADEP is divided into nine departments--Controllers,
Legal, Accounts, Administration, Analysis, Expansion, Agricultural Operations,
Industrial Operations and Special Operations. The three operations departments
are under the control of the Technical Director, who is a civil engineer,
assisted by approximately 200 staff, 26 of whom are economists, 11 are en-
gineers, 17 are accountants, 11 are lawyers, and five are agriculturists.
27.       As of October 31, 1972, BADEP's cruzeiro loans outstanding 1/ totalled
Cr$323.5 million (US$57.8 million), of which Cr$234.2 million (US$44.8 million)
was for industrial projects. Cr$152.7 million (US$27.3 million), 47% of the
total, was financed from BADEP's own resources, while 42% (Cr$133.4 million)
was financed from federal special funds and 12% (Cr$37.4 million) from the
State Economic Development Fund (FDE). FDE, which is administered by BADEP
for an annual commision of 4% of the value of the fund, is financed from
state budgetaxy allocations and, in addition to providing loan funds, princi-
pally to the industrial sector, is a source of equity capital for selected
enterprises contributing to the economic development of the state.
28.       Until recently, BADEP's lending was largely a result of the initia-
tive of investors, but, with the assistance of two recently established state
organizations, the Economic Promotion Center and the Institute of Economic
Studies, BADEP has carried out surveys which made it possible to initiate
and guide development investment. BADEP states that it has identified demand
1/ On October 31, 1972, BADEP was administering foreign currency loans
totaling Cr$62.4 million (US$10.4 million) for state infrastructural
development.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
for project-type investments totaling Cr$317 million (US$56.6 million) in-
cluding Cr$113 million for oilseed processing, Cr$77 million for meat proces-
sing, Cr$62 million for fruit juice production, and Cr$57 million for dairy
product processing. Appendix 6-4 presents a balance sheet and income and
expenditure accounts for 1969-71.
29.       BADEP has dynamic management and debt collection procedures are
good. Security requirements, which are normally real estate valued at 150%
of loan advanced, are rigidly enforced. Some loans taken over from its pre-
dessor have proved difficult to collect, but it is not expected that they
will result in eventual loss to the bank.
Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul (Regional Development Bank
of the Extreme South)
30.       Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul (BRDE) commence
operations in 1962 following an agreement reached the previous year between
the Governors of the three southern states of Brazil to establish a devel-
opment bank which would assist the development of the region. BRDE has
agencies in the capital cities of each of the participating states: Porto
Alegre in Rio Grande do Sul, Curitiba in Parana, and Florianopolis in Santa
Catarina. The banks's capital of Cr$33 million is owned in equal shares by
the participating states and BRDE does not pay dividends on that capital.
Simultaneously with the establishment of BRDE, the Council for the Develop-
ment of the Extreme South (CODESUL) was formed to engage in regional develop-
ment planning and to establish a policy framework within which BRDE would
operate.
31.       BRDE is governed by a Joint Administrative Staff which comprises 15
members: the President of the bank, who is also chairman of the Joint
Administrative Staff; three representatives of the Federal Government, each
residing in one of the participating states; two representatives from each
state; the four directors of the bank; and the Executive Secretary of CODESUL.
Responsible to the Joint Administrative Staff for executive control of BRDE
is a Board of Directors, comprising the President, nominated jointly by the
state governors; one director from each participating state, appointed by
the respective state governor with the approval of BC; and one director
nominated by the Federal President on the advice of BC.
32.       BRDE is organizationally divided into departments for rural credit,
industrial credit, and special credit, the latter being responsible for
operations which do not, by definition, come within the sphere of either of
the other departments, such as loans to the public sector. Among the staff,
totaling 309 at end November 1972, are 47 economists, 15 lawyers, 11 account-
ants, 32 civil and mechancial engineers, and 11 agricultural engineers.
33.       As with the state development banks, BRDE's lending resources comprise
its own capital and free reserves and it has access to various federal funds.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Additionally, however, it receives an annual interest-free contribution from
the three member states in an amount equal to 1% of each of the states' total
annual ICM revenues.  BRDE's lending has increased substantially over recent
years: loan balances, in current cruzeiros, increased by 52% between 1969
and 1970 and by a further 50% between 1970 and 1971, the principal gains
being in loans to the industrial sector. Appendix 6-5 presents a blance
sheet and income and expenditure accounts for 1969-71.
34.       BRDE lends up to 80% of the total cost of expansion or improvement
of an existing investment but loans for new installations are limited to 60%
of cost. For working capital loans, BRDE lends up to twice average monthly
sales, or, in cases where additional working capital is required to increase
production, it will lend up to 60% of the amount of the additional capital
provided by the borrower.
35.       Individual directors may approve loans up to Cr$1.2 million, while
loans up to Cr$3.6 million may be approved by the Board of Directors, which
meets at least once per month. Loans in excess of Cr$3.6 million are subject
to approval by the Joint Administrative Council, which is also scheduled to
meet once per month.
Bank of Brazil
36.       Founded in 1833, BB (Assets almost Cr$48 billion, or US$8.6 billion
at end 1971) performed the functions of a central bank until 1964 and still
acts as financial agent for the Federal Treasury and other government agencies.
Its main objective, however, is to promote and advance national production
(it is the executing agency for the Grain Storage Project--Loan 857-BR).
Government holds 55% of BB's share capital (Cr$1.8 billion, or US$300 million
in 1972) and the rest is held by the private sector.
37.       The President of the Republic nominates BB's president and one
director, while 11 directors are elected by shareholders. The president of
the bank, who is assisted by a technical and legal advisor, has 12 divisions
each headed byt a director. Separate divisions deal with administration, per-
sonnel, and foreign exchange and external trade, and an operational division
(DENOP) is responsible for operational efficiency, which entails issuing
standing instructions for the maintenance of standard operating conditions,
particularly with regard to loan procedures. Loan applications are appraised
in accordance with the relevant standing instruction. Seven regional divisions,
four of which would be involved with the project, deal with banking operations
in their respective areas. The directors of all divisions and their staff are
located at head office. At end September 1972, BB had 810 branches distributed
throughout Brazil, 599 of which were in the 10 states comprising the project
area. BB is subject to inspection by the ISBAN department of BC.
38.       BB's main source of funds is deposits (short term, sight, and
demand) from the public, banks, other financial institutions, the Treasury
(insterest-free), and BC. In 1969-71, financial charges were 0.5% of average
0



ANNEX 6
Page 10
assets while income from all operations was 7.6%, mainly from interest on
production and commercial loans: the 1969-71 average administration cost
was 3.9% of loans outstanding. Amounts written off during 1971 were equiva-
lent to 0.25% of the total balances of loans outstanding at the end of the
year. After making adequate provisions, BB has shown steadily rising profits
over the past five years and has been able to allocate adequate amount to
reserves.
39.       BB's loans outstanding to the private sector at end 1971 totaled
Cr$22.5 billion (US$4.0 billion), of which Cr$8.7 billion wa' for industry,
including Cr$1.7 billion for food production. Interest rates, mounetary
correction rates, other charges, loan and grace periods, and security
requirements vary according to the size and the purpose of the loan and the
source of funds. Eli 1971, the weighted annual average yield (interest and
other charges) on all loans was 14.7%. Appendix 6-6 presents a balance sheet
and income and expenditure accounts for 1967-71.



Arpendix 6-1
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
State Development Bank of Minas Gerais
Condensed Balance Sheets
(Cr$ million)
As at .................    12/31/69       12/31/70         12/31/71
ASSETS
Cash and with Banks                        12.3               4.o             7.1
Short-term Assets:
Advances - Credits                24.2              39.0             50.9
Sundry Debtors                                      13.0              9.8
81.0             52.0             60.7
Long-term Assets:
Loans                             82.4             142.5            291.6
Equity Investments                26.7              28.2             35.5
Miscellaneous                     46.0              19.4              1.7
155.1            190.1            328.8
Fixed Assets (less depreciation)            7.1               9.5             9.1
Suspense                                    -07                               3.3
Total Assets                                       256.3            409,o
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Capital                          144.3             120.4            100.0
Reserves and Retained Profits    34.3               12.4             17.1
Short-term Liabilities                    178.6             132.8           I17 1
Shong-term Liabilities                     fl.l              19.7            l44.7
Long-term L5abilities                      57.6             102.4           247.1
Suspense                                    8.2               1               0.1
Total Liabilities                 255.              256.3           409.0
April 5, 1973



ERAZIL
AGR0-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
u'.                                      Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
H                                         State Development Bank of Minas Gerais
\0
Condensed Income and Z*pendibgre Accounts
(Cr$ million)
To Year Ending:               12/31/69                  12/31/70              12/31/71
BXPENDITURE
Financial Charges:
Interest and Commission                4,o25                  5s,762                  14,305
Monetary Correction                   2.499                   5.°5 1                  16.453
6,524            ~~10,797                  30,758
Administrative Expenses:
Personnel                             6,286                   7,393                   10,039
Others                                3.L6                    2.793                    3,425
9,1402                  10,186                   13,,464
AdJustments and Amortization                       -                                                  554
Sundry Expenses                                    394                                              1,415
Provisions                                         -                                                  377
Distribution of Profit:
Reserves                                                      1,082                    1,359
Special Fund                                                  1,082                      179
Undistributed                                                 2.665                    2.048
6,s61                    9,829                    3,586
Total Expendlture                     22,881                   33.080                    50.154
cperating Income                                19,373                   26,381                    47,578
Investment Incom                                 2,673                    5,486                     2,476
Miscellaneous Income                               835                    1.213                       100
Total Income                          22881                    33080                     50.15i



BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and. Credit Framework
State Development Bank of Espirito Santo
Condensed Balance Sheet
(19T1 Cr$ million)
As at ... ... .........   _           12/31/69 1/             12731T7O                12/31/71
A S S E T S
Cash and.with Banks                         1.2                      3.2                    7.9
Loans                                      12.5                     24.6                   39.1
Accounts Receivable                         0.3                      2.3                   16.0
Negotiable Securities                        _                       6.6                    1.3
Sundry Current Assets                        -                        -                     0.8
Equity Investments                         10.4                     11.3                   12.9
Fixed Assets                                0.7                      2.1                    3.7
9uspense                                    4.3                      4.9                    3.2
Total Assets                            29.4                     55.0                   84.9
L I A B I L,I T I E S
Capital and Reserves                       15.0                     24.2                   24.7
Deposits                                     _                       7.7                    8.3
Special FundB                                -                       4.2                   19.9
Accounts Payable                            1.2                      i.5                    1.8
Sundry- Liabilities                        13.1                     15.9                   17.3
Suspense                                    0.1                      1.5                   12.9
Total Liabilities                       29.4                     55.0                   84.9
1/  Operating as Companhia de Desinvolvimento EconomiJ do Espirito Santo (CODES).



BRAZI
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
State Development Bank of Espirito Santo
Condensed Income and Expenditure Accounts
'K                                                  (1971 Cr$ 100o6
H               To Year Ending   _12.1/39.1                          121317 
'  EXPEND ITURES
Financial Charges                        -                              135                             4UI
Administrative Expenses:
Personnel                  572                            1,0931                         1,671
Others                     282       854                    451   1,542                  1,069     2,740
Adjustments and. Amortization           118                              39                              70
Sundry Expenses                          64                             154                             565
Distribuation of Profit:
Reserves                     2                              103                            206
Dividendts                                                  504                          1,320
Staff Bonus, *tc.           -                               277                            483
Undistributed               44       J_6                    149    1 ,033                   -      2, 009
1,082                          2,903                           5,795
I N C O W !
Operating Incme                        559                            1,888                           14,503
Invetment Income                        -                               -                               431
Miscellaneous Income                   523                            1,ca5                             861
1,082                           2,903                            ;,795
/ Operating as Companbia de Desinvolvimento Economico do Expirito Santo (CODES).
*            '                                      *' 



B R A Z I L
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
State Development Bank of Sao Paulo: Condensed Balance Sheets
(1971 Cr$ million)
As at: ...................            12/31/70                  6/30/71                      12/31/71                     6/30/72
A S S E T S
Cash and with Banks                                        0.8                         20.0                        14.6                        14.0
Short Term Assets:
Negotiable State Bonds                      46.2                        10.0                        69.2                         64.0
Term Bank Deposits                          31.4                        60.2                        49.6                         26.4
Working Capital - Industrial                 -                           -                           1.6                          2.9
- Rural                    -                                                                                    0.2
- Others                   -                                                                                    0.1
Income Receivable                            5.1                         2.8                        10.9                          9.2
Advances and Sundry Debtors                  __-                                                     0.5                          7.5
82.7                        73.0                       131.8                        110.3
Long Term Assets
Equity Investments                           2.2                         2.2                         7.0                         24.8
Loans - Industrial                           2.3                         3.4                        11.3                         41.4
- Rural                               -                           0.8                         9.1                         19.4
- Others                                                          -                          17.8                         27.0
M: scellaneous                                                                                                                    7.7
4.5                         6.4                        45.2                        120.3
Fixed
Fixed Assets (less depreciation)                           0.7                          1.2                         1.2                       _9.3
Total Assets:                                  88.7                       100.6                        192.8                       't53.9
L I A B I L I T I E S
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                     78.4                        78.4                       140.0                        128.0
Reserves and Retained Profits                5.7                         9.6                        26.5                         36.1
84.1                        88.0                       166.5                        164.9
Short Term Liabilities                                     4.6                          2.3                         3.1                          5.7
Long Term  Liabilities                                      -                          10.3                        23.2                         83.2
Suspense                                                                                -                           -                            0.1
Total Liabilities:                                                         100.6                       192.8                        253.9
> 0
ti



B R A Z I Z_
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and t'redit Framew.ork
State Development Bank of Sao Paulo: Condensed Income and Expenditurxe Accounts
(19/1 CrTS-00)
To: ....                         12/31/70                    6/30/71                       12/31/71                   6/30/72'
E X P E N D I T U R E
Financial Charges                                                -                           5                          288                       1,297
Administrative Expenses:
Personnel                                    1,685                        2,713                       3,913                        4,670
Others                                         437                          738                          771                       1,106
2,122                       3,451                        4,684                        5,775
Adjustments and Amortization                                    21                          49                           61                           70
Distribution of Profit:
Legal Reserve                                  285                          255                          680
Other Reserves                                  571                         510
Undistributed                                4,854                        4,331                      12,915                       12,047
5,710                       5,096                       13,595                       L2,04 7
Total Expenditures:                                _7_853                       _601                        18,628                       19,189
I N C O M E
Operating Income                                            7,852                        8,591                       3,293                        7,117
Investment Income                                                1                          10                      15,320                       12,052
Miscellaneous Income                                             -                            -                          15                           20
Total Income:                                        _853                        8601                       _8_628                       19, 189
*   '   '                                  *                                                                      '           '          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'



*    r                                                                                 *                                                                                   0
n
-                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Extiating Institutional and Credit Framework
State Development Bank of Parana: Condensed Balance Sheets
(1971 Cr$ million)
As at .,. .........   12/31/69                                        12/31/70                            12/31/71
A S S E T S
Cash and with Banks                                                 6.6                               25.6                               20.5
Loans - National Currency:
Own Resources                                  175.7                              151.9                               132.8
FDE Funds                                       47.4                               43.9                                37.0
Federal Funds                                   56.5                               43.8                                93.7
279.6                              239.6                              263.5
Foreign Currency                                                   68.3                               69.5                               71.6
Sundry Debtors                                                     18.3                               15.5                                17.6
Equities - FDE Funds                               63.3                                81.8                               73.1
- Own Funds                               3.7                                 3.1                                2.4
67.0                               84.9                               75.5
Fixed Term Deposits                                                 7.7                                0.6                                 0.3
Fixed Assets (less depreciation)                                    4.1                                9.4                                 5.2
Suspense                                                            0.2                                0.2                                 0.2
Total Assets:                                            451.8                              445.3                               454.4
L I A B I L I T I E S
Capital and Reserves:
Capital                                        173.1                              144.5                               120.0
Reserves                                        12.8                                19.0                               39.7
185.9                              163.5                              159.7
Special Funds                                                     128.5                              133.6                               169.8
Economic Development Fund (FDE)                                   111.9                              128.9                               120.0
Current Liabilities                                                15.7                                7.8                                 4.5
Suspense                                                            9.8                               11.5                                 0.4
Total Liabilities:                                       451.8                              445.3                               454.4                                                       M



B R A Z I L
s                                                               AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
State Development Bank of Parana: Condensed Income and Expenditure Accounts
(1971 Cr$ '000)
To Year Ending: ................            12/31/69                             12t3l/70                             12/31/71
E X P E N D I T U R E
Financial Expenses                                                    112                                  406                               3,591
Administrative Expenises:
Personnel                                       4,748                                4,125                                4,585
Others                                             769                                 705                                  716
5,517                               4,830                                5,301
Adjustments and Amortization                                           189                                 175                                  153
Sundry Expenses                                                       914                                  847                                  697
Distribution of Profits:
Reserves                                           544                                 642                                  779
Undistributed                                   10,341                              12,190                               14,798
10,885                              12,832                               15,577
Total Expenditure:                                        17,617                               1.9090                              25,319
I N C O M E
Operating Income                                                   13,236                               14,221                              22,003
Investment Income                                                   4,281                                4,621                               3,134
Miscellaneous Income                                                   100                                 248                                  182
Total Income:                                             17,617                               19,090                              25,319
*'                                '           *                                                                                                                     '''@



Appendix 6-5
Page 1
B R A Z I L
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutianal and Credit Framework
Regional Development Bank of the Extreme South: Condensed Balance Sheets
(1971 Cr$ million)
As at:                          12/31/f,9             12/31/70                12/31/71
A S S E T S
Cash and with Other Bianks                          6.4                      7.1                     1.8
Loans:
Rural                                31.7                    59.0                     89.2
Industrial                          113.1                   167.1                   254.2
Public Sector and Others              7.1                     4.8                      3.2
151.9                   230.9                   346.6
Contributions due from Member States                7.8                      9.6                    13.2
Accounts Receivable                                  2.3                     1.3                     0.4
Negotiable Securities                               5.7                      3.2                     8.0
*        Miscellaneous Assets                                 7.0                     7.2                     12.4
Fixed Assets                                        4.3                     4.3                      4.0
Suspense                                            0.6                      0.7                     0.5
Total Assets:                            186.0                    264.3                   386.9
L I A B I L I T I E S
Capital and Reserves:
Capital                              26.0                    28.9                    33.0
State Governments Accumulated
Contributions                      37.8                    39.7                    42.5
Reserves                              5.7                    12.7                     18.9
69.5                    81.3                    94.4
Special Funds                                     113.0                    178.2                   281.4
Miscellaneous Liabilities                            2.0                     3.2                     9.6
Suspense                                            1.5                      1.6                     1.5
Total Liabilities:                       186.0                   264.3                    386.9
March 24, 1973



B R A Z I L
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
ExiBting Institutional and Credit Framework
Regional Development Bank of the Extreme South: Condensed Income and Expenditure Accounts
(1971 Cr$'000)
To Year Ending ...............                12/31/69                          12/31/70                           12/31/71
E  X P E N D I T U R E
so
-            Financial Charges:
Interest and Commission                         6,444                              9,834                            14,894
_, Monetary Correction                                                                             4,694                             10i772
10,510                            14,528                             25,666
Administrative Expenses:
Personnel                                       5,647                              6,140                             6,867
Social Charges                                  1,100                              1,219                             1,451
Others                                          2.654                              2,966                             3.477
9,401                            10,325                             11,795
Adjustments and Amortizations                                        550                               769                              1,976
Contingency Fund                                                     587                               909                              1,073
Operating Profit:
General Reserves                                4,081                              6,960                              8,914
Other Reserves                                  1,203                              15                                 1,636
5,284                             8,513                             10,550
Total Expenditure:                                       26,332                            35,044                             51,060
I N C O M E
Interest and Commission                           17,010                             23,791                            30,875
Monetary Correction                                5.882                              8,880                             17,128
22,892                            32,671                             48,003
Miscellaneous Income                                               3,440                             2,373                              3,057
Total Income:                                            26,332                             35,044                              1
*                     '    '                                                           *                                                                   '    '                                



*                    &                                                                      
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIRS CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Institutional and Credit Framework
Barnk of Bra2il: Conqdensed Balance Sheets
(1971 Cr$ billion)
As at: .........,.          ............   12/31/67                     12/3X. 3               12/31/69              12/31/70                  12/31/71
A S S E T S
%0        Cash                                                       0.30                     0.20                    0.26                     0.29                  0.22
Loans:
Production                                 4.96                     5.74                    7.03                11.33                    14.45
Commerce                                   0.98                     5.35                    6.45                 5.14                     5.40
Treasury                                   9.49                     5.98                    4.92                 4.09                     3.40
Others                                     0.22                     0.78                    1.45                  1.63                    2.01
15.65                   17.85                   19.85                    22.19                 25.26
Advances and Credits:
Treasury                                   1.00                     2.01                    3.60                  4.58                    3.85
Overseas                                  10.54                     9.58                   12.00                 12.28                    9.53
Internal                                    -                       1.02                    1.50                  2.01                    3.14
Others                                     5.37                     5.36                    4.50                 4.51                     4.33
16.91                   17.98                    21.60                   23.38                 20.85
Negotiable Securities                                      0.06                     0.08                    0.59                     0.73                  0.76
Fixed Assets (less depreciation)                           0.14                     0.07                    0.10                     0.11                  0.72
Suspense                                                   0.16                     1.22                    0.12                     0.01                   -
Total Assets:                  33.22          _        37.40                   42.52                    46.71                 47.81
L I A B I L I T I E S
Capital and Reserves:
Capital                                    0.13                     0.10                    0.35                  0.86                     1.08
Reserves                                   0.90                     1.19                    1.29                  1.22                     2.15
1.03                    1.29                     1.64                    2.08                  3.23
Deposits (short term and sight):
Public                                           2.64                    3.35                     4.00                 4.58                     4.94
Banks and Finance Institutions                   5.53                    2.33                     3.13                 3.21                     4.53
Treasury                                         7.33                    6.59                     6.52                 7.09                     6.56
Central Bank and Other Government Entities    2.62                       5.63                     5.13                 4.71                     4.89
18.12                   17.90                    18.78                   19.59                 20.92
Deposits (medium term)                                     0.14                     0.14                    0.14                     0.14                  0.41
Deposits (demand and special)                             12.33                    15.32                    17.89                   19.81                 16.43
Special Funds                                               -                       0.98                     1.99                    2.58                  3.83
Suspense                                                   1.60                     1.77                     2.08                    2.51                  2.99
Total Liabilities:             33.22                   37.40                    42.52                    46.71                47.81
O la
am



B R A Z I L
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Existing Tnstitutional and Credit Framework
Bank of Brazil: Condensed Income and Expenditure Statements
-   (1971 Cr- $ million)
To Year Ending:                          12/31/67                   12/31/68                 12/31/69              12/31/70                    12/31/71
'0
E X P E N D I T U R E
Financial Charges                                               247.1                     238.0                     255.6                     232.0                  249.6
Administrative Expenses:
Personnel                                       1,113.0                  1,016.5                   1,018.3                1,131.8                   1,055.0
Social charges                                    214.2                     373.7                    362.3                  272.2                     338.8
other charges                                      89.8                     125.6                     182.3                 386.0                     461.5
1,417.0                  1,515.8                   1,562.9                   1,790.0                1,855.3
Adjustments and Amortization                                      11.5                     151.0                    178.5                     219.1                  246.3
Provisions                                                      523.7                     677.7                     572.3                     584.0                  882.0
Contingency Fund                                                  83.1                     47.6                      56.1                     103.0                  160.0
Operating Profit:
General Reserves                                   35.3                      44.8                      45.9                  51.2                       61.2
Dividends                                          14.5                      20.9                      54.5                  72.3                     115.2
Other Reserves                                    303.0                     381.3                     358.8                 388.0                     435.5
352.8                    447.0                     459.2                     51i.5                  611.9
Total Expenditure:                                   2_635.2                   3,077.1                   3,084.6                   3,389.6                4,005.1
I N C O M E
Operations: Interest and Commission
Production and Commercial Loans                                               -                    1,878.6                2,169.6                   2,603.8
Public and Institutional Loans                      -                                                  71.7                  95.2                       87.9
Other Loans                                                                   -                       599.6                 255.4                     307.7
2,607.7                  2,770.4                   2,549.9                   2,520.2                2,999.4
Service Charges                                                    -                         -                      211.0                     432.0                  419.8
other Operating Income                                             -                       283.5                     276.7                    266.3                  319.4
Miscellaneous Income                                              27.5                      23.2                      47.0                     171.1                 266.5
Total Income:                                          ,635.2                   3,077.1                  3,084.6                   3,389.6                4 005.1
*                      r A '                                                                *                                                                    ''.



BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cost Phasing
Year 1               Year 2                Year 3                Year 4               Year 5                Total
Cr$       US$        Cr$        US$        Cr$       US$         Cr$       US$        Cr$       US$        Cr$         US$
million  million    million   million    million   million    million   million   million   million   million    million
Beef Processing          65.447    10.800    196D344    32.400    229.068    37.800    130.896    21.600    32.724    5.400    654.480    108.000
Oilseed Processing        1.091      0.180      6.908      1.140     16.362     2.700      17.332     2.860      6.787    1.120      48,980       8.000
Milk Processing            3.030     0.500     13.029      2.150     21.816     3.600      17.271      2.850     5.454    0.900      60.600      10.000
Miscellaneous Food and
Feed Processing           1.364     0.225      8.181      1.350     19.089     3.150      19.089     3.150      6.818      1.125    54.540       9.000
Total              70.932    11.705    224.462    37.040    286.335    47.250    184.588    30.460    51.783          8.545   818.100    135.000
.                                                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



BRAZIL
ACRO-INDUST1IES CREDIT PROJECT
Projt  Cash Flow at Central Bank
(US$ '000 equivalent)
1         2         3        4          5        6         7         8         9         10        11          12          13         14         15
Cash Inflow
Bank Loan                4,682    14,816    18,900  12,184    3,418
Government
Contribution          4,682    14,816    18,900  12,184    3,418
Collections from       1/
Participating Banks-  309        1,596     4,330  11,816   17,808    19,338   18,422    1.7,505   16,587    15,172   12,989           6,836       2,231
Total                     9,673    31,228    42,130  36,184   24,644    19,338   18,422    17,505   16,587    15,1i2   12,989             6,836       2,231
Cash Outflow
Refinancing of
Participating
Bank Subloans         9,364    29,632    37,800  24,368    6,836
Bank Loan         2/
Commitment F  2/        589        314       188       71        13
Debt Service-           170        877     2,099   3,226    3,791       7,685   7,685       7,685    7,685      7,685    7,685        7,685       7,685      7,685      7,685
Total                   759      1,191     2,287   3,297    3,804
Total                   10,123    30,823    40,087  27,665   10,640        7,685   7,685        7,685    7,685      7,685    7,685         685         65       7,685      7,685
Net Cash Flow-X
Annual                     (450)      405      2,043   8,519   14,004    11,653  10,737         9,820    8,902      7,487    5,304         (849)    (5,454)   (7,685)   (7,685)
Cumulative                 (450)      (45)    1,998  10,517   24,521    36,174  46,911        56,731   65,633    73,120   78,424        77,575      72,121    64,436    56,751
1/ Interest on refinancing of subloans adjusted to reflect difference of 4% between inflation in Brazil and movement of the cruzeiro/dollar exchange rate.
2/ Commitment fee of 3/4%. ,
The amount for year 1 includes US$202,000 likely to be due during the six months prior to the beginning of the projection.
3/ Bank loan for 15 years including 5 years' grace at 714%.
4/ Government would advance US$450,000 equivalent to cover shertfall in year 1 and would also advance funds necessary to cover any lag between refinanicing
and disbursement of the Bank loan.



BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREw.T Priuj.u
Estmatd Shedleof Disbursements of Bank Loan
Quart~er                              Disbursement
Fiscal Year                    Eniding                          uarteq       Cumulative
1974                       March 31., 1974                       1.,200         1,.200
June 30, 31974                       2,,000         3,200
1975                       September 30., 1974                   2,*800         6,000
December 31, 1974                     3,200          9,200
March -1, 1975                        3,200         12,400
June 30,, 1975                        3.,600        16,00
1976                       September 30,, 1975                   3.,600        19,600
December 31L, 1L975                   4.,000        23.,600
March 31., 1976                      4U,000         27,,600
June 30., 1976                       4h,400         32j,000
1977                       Septwo*er 30, 1976                    4,1400        36,4.00
December 31., 1976                   4k,000         40,400
Mar-ch 3.1, 1977                      3.,600        44,o000
June 30,, 1977                        3,200         47,200
1978                       September 30, 1977                    2.,800        50.,000
Decamber 31., 1977                    2.,000        52.,000
March 31, 1978                        1.,200        53,200
June 30., 1978                          800         54.L,000



I



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Justification
1.        For the purpose of evaluating the project's economic feasibility,
an economic rate of return has been calculated for each of the project's
principal components, namely: beef processing, oilseed processing and milk
processing. It would not be practicable to estimate an aggregative economic
rate of return for the project as a whole due to the existence of a mniscel-
laneous component (6.6% of total project investment) which cannot be iden-
tified and whose costs and benefits cannot therefore be quantified. Moreover,
due to the lack of direct inter-dependence among project components, the
individual calculations by component allow a more meaningful assessment of
the project's overall economic feasibility.
2.        The best-estimate economic rates of return of the three principal
project components are:
a)   Beef processing           53%
b)   Oilseed processing        23%
c)   Milk processing           48%
Sensitivity tests of these rates, in relation to certain variations in costs
and benefits, are presented in Appendix 10-1. The price assumptions under-
lying the best-estimate costs and benefits used to arrive at the above rates
of return are presented in Appendix 10-2. This appendix also lists the
corresponding prices used for financial evaluation of the models in Arnexes
2-4.
3.        The basic assumptions on output quantities and applicable prices
which affect the economic rates of return are as follows:
Beef Processing
a)   New plants:
i)   Beef quarters:
a)   Export oriented - total production, valued at Cr$4,905/ton;
b)   Non-export oriented - total production, valued at
Cr$4,690/ton.
ii) Miscellaneous products - total production, valued at the
corresponding prices shown in Appendix 10-2.
b) PlarLt improvement, with accompanying increase in capacity and
a change from domestic to export orientation:



ANNEX 10
Page 2
i)   Beef quarters -- total production without the project,
valued at Cr$ 430/ton; plus all incremental production
attributable to the project, valued at Cr$ 4,905/ton.
ii)   Miscellaneous products -- total production without the
project, valued at 10% of the corresponding prices shown
in Appendix 10-2; plus all incremental production attri-
butable to the project, valued at the full prices shown
in Appendix 10-2.
c)   Plant improvement, without accompanying increase in capacity but
with a change from domestic to export orientation:
i)   Beef quarters -- total production, valued at Cr$ 430/ton.
ii)   Miscellaneous products -- total production, valued at
10% of the corresponding prices shown in Appendix 10-2.
d)   Plant improvement, with accompanying expansion in capacity but
without a change in orientation:
i)   Beef quarters:
1)   Export oriented -- 80% of total production without
the project, valued at Cr$ 430/ton; plus all incre-
mental production attributable to the project,                   0
valued at Cr$ 4,905/ton; and
2)  Non-export oriented -  total production without
the project, valued at Cr$ 215/ton; plus all
incremental production attributable to the project,
valued at Cr$ 4,690/ton.
ii)   Miscellaneous products -- total production without the
project, valued at 10% of the corresponding prices shown
in Appendix 10-2; plus all incremental production attri-
butable to the project, valued at the full prices shown
in Appendix 10-2.
e)   Plant improvement, without increase in capacity or a change in
orientation:
i)   Beef quarters:
1)   Export oriented -- 80% of total production, valued
at Cr$ 430/ton; and
2)  Non-export oriented -  total production, valued at
Cr$ 215/ton.
.



ANNEX 10
*                                                                         Page 3
ii)   Miscellaneous products -- total production, valued at
10% of the corresponding prices shown in Appendix 10-2.
Oilseed Processing - Total production and total inputs, valued at prices
shown in Appendix 10-2.
Rilk Processing - Total production, and total inputs valued at the economic
shadow prices shown in Appendix 10-2.






Appendix 10-1
BRAZIL
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Justification
Sensitivity Tests of Economic Rates of Return
Beef              Oilseed              Milk
Processing        Processing           Processing
1.  Best estimate                   53                  23                  48
2.  Investment cost overrun of
15% and. corresponding
period.ic benefit slippage      26                   8                  23
3. Current operating costs,
including raw material,
increase 15%                    20                negativeJ/            15
4. Gross benefits d.ecrease
15%                             10                negative?/             4.4
1/ If operating costs increase by only 10, the rate of return would. still be
negative;    if they increase by 5%, the rate of return would.by 3.6%.
2/  If gross benefits decrease by only 10, the rate of return would still be
negative;   if they decrease by 5%, the rate of return would, be 1.7%.
.
May 11, 1973






AGRO- INDUITRIEN CREDITPROJECT
E_COOMIC JUSTIFICATION
COMPARATIVE PRICES USED IN ECONOMIC ANN FINANCIAL ANALYSES
hEono-ic           FintnCial                                                                                                                                                     Economic        Financial
I   beef Processing                      Shadow  Prices           Prices                II.  Oilseed Proce-sinR-/                                                              III.  MIlk Processing                       Shadow  Prices        Prices
1   Beef q-arters, bons-im  Cr5/Toe)                                                                       Prices Used for Moth Ecsnn..c and Fin nciol Analyses                      1.  FreP h fera milk (Cr5/liter)
U) units designed to sopply                                                              Yer/Mtr----------(Cr$Metric To) --------                           Oil-a)  Regular grade                                         0.391 7i        0.51 & 0.34 _0/
emport  markets:                                                                                                                                                                 b)  iodostrial grade                0.355 1          0.46 & 0,31
1972            685                    739                   1, 382
i)  With the project              4,905 1/            6,060 -                      1975            574                    644                   1,289                     2.  Plstestszed liquld milk              1.00                0.74
ii)  Without the project           4 475 3/                                         1976            536                    612                   1,258                          (Cr$/liter)
1977            499                    580                   1,226
iii)  Iscrement                       430                                            1978            462                    548                   1,195                      3.  Powdered skin milk                  3.636                3.636
1979            425                    517                   1,164                          Cr$/kg)
b)  Units designed to supply                                                              1980 sod        268                   485                    1,133
solely the domestic market:                                                           beyeed                                                                                 4.  Cheese (Cr./kg)                      7.20  -/
i)  with the pro ect              4,690 4/            3,200                                                                                                               5.  BStter (Cr/kg)                      1o0o.                 7.50
it)  Withost the Project          4A475 1/        and 4,200 5/
iii)  Incre-est                        215
2.  Mtisnellaneons produits for oll
type. of nites (Cr5/Ton) 6/
a)  Edible offals                        3,300              3,300
b)  Inodiblc offale                      1,300              1,300
c)  Hides                                3 600              3 60
d)  Casings                              3,200              3,200
e)  Glands                              30,000             30,000
3.  Live cattle (Cr$/15 kg for oct
bone-in bkof quarters oquiv-inot-           84                  67
1/ Derived fron coeporable Argentine export beef pricns, an follows:  BonnIces, CIF Homburg                                                 us$ 1,300/oorrc ton         FqnEivnl-nt price of b4-c-in bNofquant-r, ocitg a factor of 657.  US$ Bl9.25/,etric  too
L-ss Ureight, et., betwene  European and Bra-ilian prts               55/mtric . t     o.  Equivai-et to CrS4,906.06/-eci, trn, rounded to                        Cr$  4,905/metric toe
Boenleos, POB Broi1                                            1S$ 1,245/metric toe
2/  Average value  per ton of all bhof enpuret  fIo  BrSmil in 1972 was aNout 6,960, including bone-in becf quarters, bonelces  Nrcfiso   ;iiA    nf IThe fig-rn gieu in the nctimost-  -vorcgn tor bone-is and boneleos, and h.. bhen
applied to the combined quaetitico of hone-in ond -    onoleo-   beae in tho finsncial nodeln.
3/ Simple mean of font price figures for bose-in heef provailing in Brazil or time of project appcaisal, as  CollUws (Cr5/kg):  (a)  Official Prices:  Focequarter ,.20, Hindquat-er 4.20;  11) A.verge black narhet prices:
Forequarter 4.70, Hindqnarcer 5.80;  Simple mean of all four - 4.475 or Cr$ 4,475/metric ton.  Tho one of this averan. cothetc th   that only fot black motket pr-ce., is bnsed no the rotiu.ole that free mtrket prices ohould nettle
nomehere betoeCe  the ortificially low official prites and the black marhet prIces moIrfog from pri-e control.
4/ This price is based on rho .ssumption that, because of bettor selection =nd handling snd the increase in rho  derived value of beif quar-er uh-ch are e-e-.tally  -overtcd into op-ill bhonelcss moot noto and otbhr procos-ed packaged
products, the beef output of export-oriented  la-ghterh-o.ses would g-enrally have higher colon.  rhus., -nits des-gcnd nolly  to  supply the dou--tic mtrket would rec-iv- relatively loor prirc.  for their product.  The price differential
attributable to the above f-ctor- is aesumed to be about 50% of tho diff-rence between the -valu of expuct quality beef sad the value of domestically cold bhof withont the project.
5/  Official prices for fareqnarter-  and hindquarters, r-spectiv-ly, as in fiot-ote 3,  bohc.
6/  The sane prices hbou  bees adopted for both economic and fi-C-al evoluati-n purpose nince Bracil does not export these products in their bhsic forms, no meaningful ioternational market pricce  are avo iiable and the domestic markets
for these products are not controlled but relatively competitive.  For economit onalyoes, chese arc the prices used "with thi  project"; nalces "with-tu  the pro3oct" arc as.-ed to be aboct 10% Iower.
7/ Th. financiul price of Cr$ 67/15 kg have been set thr-ugh "Gentleman's Agreement" at less than what free market prie woid  theiu  he.  It is -tintd that  qoilibri   eaNe  pri   would be about 25T4 higher without the
"Getleman' s Agreement" or any other price co-trol.
8/  These arc de_ived fran 1972 sod projected 1980 intermationol prices, FOB BraIIs, adjsted for transport and h-ndling c-nt between port sod factory  in the case of meal and oil, and betroeo fnctory  nod prodoctior area do the c.e.
of row soybeans. The price declines fram 1972 to 1980 ace ossumed to be linear.
9/ These ore assumed eq;itibrium market prices if there wore no sinimum price and quota system for freoh milk, The figf-es are weighted aver-ge- of thb oini-no prices for the quotas aod the residcal competitive prices to clear
the market ofter the qeoton hbee  been filled.  Weights used, which ore -ough ectimates,  cr 30% for official nini.n. prices sod 702. for residual frce--eket price.
10/ The first figures are the official minimum prices under the quota sy.tem; the seoned figucrs ore 1972 residnal free-sarket priccs.
11/  Derived frcn prevailing prices in s nuhbee of importat che-se cod butter producing countrieo,  djuted foc freight to arrive at estimated a-erage CIF prices, CBrailia- ports. which  these  figures ore assumed to represent.                                     t
April 11, 1973                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D.






IBRD-10335
516'          |^ 52                                                                4' g'48                   APRIt j9T
-12'                 12/ct'                                                                                2-0 35>
BRAZIL
PtrtD Artur                                                                                       A b H
Culab         f    w/~~t - t   9                                            f/M;f                  q7orpn
?\  /  -\'    (aA                             ^                        <    /    e\S16'~~~~~ A H
SS _  ;-E A; ;>'0'kl
,, N  X   _      d . _ . i                      ,    X   4   ,X3A  $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m' 
~~~~~~~~~                                                           Mom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~re    aznteena
P A > A G U tA t    }   ra  v  A  N   y         XAhwS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G    EI  
Rubin                                     H.     R    N CI                  2-C
Rio Brihonte               aDS                                                              Monen,;    r
P,rd /iL                                                                             C Ar it           ES
dnho Iguc/Qu                                              GUANABARA                           24
(  /  t        , brtA;re                                  - - . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'esretroci project areas (516BR ranri 86SBR)
f:   C ~~~~~~~>  %_sbtrusg2/P/  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-.--Stcte bounxdaries
r     $  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ > ~~~~~~~~.-.-._.Ieternatlonnllboundaries                               32~
p  A    U G U A  Y                 A jg/J                                              KILOMETERS
56     52'  WO,C4SC,k   C~    __  45'                         44 ross
.                      7tShu~~~~~~~~~~~~~lev on 4tbZ ic ~   1
RGE TN                           srBRAZILwr                 4Sf4-                                                    :
.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~GOIDSRE CRDI PROJECT






\     RONDONIA
N.._^,4Territory)         )/                                                                              )                   
B A H IA Avodor
GOIA 14         or
IMaito Grosso                                                                           _
MATO   GROSSO                                         FEDERAL
I'                            ,1                                                    -                t 
BOLIVIA                                                1                          a          MINAS  GERA
/                                                   f                                                   Gror5dr; °Belo Horzonte N t
-Grand'< ) st*,  e                                                                  ESPI ITO
I                                                .,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SANTO   (
\L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
PARAGUAY                                                                                   R 1SAO  PAULO  E GANIRO RA
PARANA    curtb
f   J   *,   X.           _ 7F    -                         ~~~~~~~~~BPAZ IL
ARGfN INA                 /                                        SANTAAGRO INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
___  ~~~~~~~SNT"Density of CcIItle Population, 1972
NC+ WAIAR INA A§ aC,, ho>>h ond Investments in Beef Processing  p tnts
1uw Ib [.Jf A   .,   wh                                                                                                 ...... N L~eo10 C6i. * lr .A a .r ......... * * _ - > _Jt s p06f4k1 k pOpulan rren ty pter KM2
*0, han 30
More than 50
.R L                      _ -l .                      C        )                                         Rotive propOtions of Investre0s
\ (. B....J R AIn beint procesirtg p6fnts
. APEA OF  )                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -S te boundaries
L.                             5                                                                                -E4  ,n e'nj';tIo._=oIt bdia rles
0..                                                                   0         ~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200  400  60080
4    5             \                     ,      Wl~~~~~~~         ~         ~       ~~~~~~o GronderJ200               6iC_
KILOMETERS
outh                     ~~~URUGUAY>
South ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.e ~~~~~~~~~0                                         t00     200      300     400       Soo
Americo                                                                                                                MIL6
o _






60                                 5'4'                                  48-              PIAUI /'           42      
RONDONIA                                                                                                                                                          ERGIPE,
I. {TER R ITO RY)      \                                                                                  )                                           .          \
12   \w_^'\,,  {                                                                 '            i                 )                        ,    t'   v/  12--) 
\,N.     /                                                            '     G O   I A  s                          B/A   H  I A-             F    Salvador
MATO  G(ROSSO                                    0
)                                                        /u                             I    ,,-) 
i                                                     6CJ/            @ FEDERAL   -
DISTRICT   )
v         L      r@~~~?_BraosiIio/                        \ _ 
BOI/VIA                                                                      /
Gbianio     )
)                  .* *  .S*- X    f   ~~~~~~MIN/AS  GE.RAIpS-                             
-/8'                     i    -  /     U    -                   U  i  t   o     S      C     .+t         Belo     ' H o     2       E P    T
A          U,    Niteroi RIO r F r   GU   DE JANERO
\ \   PARAGUA
AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT                               24
A RGEN r1 NA                                                                           Corn and Wheat/Soyben Distrbution and
*   4t4~ i.ATTAd#        Investmnts in Oiseed and Mik Processing Plants
W. 2fieJRin proportiOnS of investmets ir oilseeds  d
lo.         lJ R*                                                V   Olseed proceRbtes
\ CWB R A Z I L )                  f          ,4s  . o   : 4.: Wargre                                                       Milk basin bourdary
)  +         -FA  30-                                                                                                 - - \V  State boundaries
lilY  ~~~~~~  ~~ 4  URUGUAY          *.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::                            7-  -  ~~~~~IntrtoSIOROI boundaries
4   oiJth   rbe b^lxrSee +S.n ww 1Aw wgRaw  g    UR U G UAY K  \0         200         400        A6O          800
2  g America     bR,slI e                                                                                                            LO MET E1 ErS [  g / 9K E
0        100      200       300      400        500
60D                            54-                            4                               42' MILES                       36'            r



