Report No 1442a-IN                                                   FILE  COPY
India Madhya Pradesh Agricurtural Extension
and Research Project
May 2, 1977
South Asia Project Department
IFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performanceof theit official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                    =   Rupees (Rs) 9.00
Rs  = Paise 100         =   US$0.11
Rs 1 Million (M)        =   US$111,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                              =  2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                  = 1 metric ton    =  0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                  =  1.09 yards  = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                     2       =  0.62 mile
I hectare (ha)         2   = 10,000 m        =  2.47 acres
I square kilometsr (km ) = 100 ha            =  0.39 square mile
1 cubic meter (m )                           = 25.39 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1    -     March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA            Additional Director/s of Agriculture
ADR            Associate Director of Research
AEO            Agricultural Extension Officer/s
Asst. DA       Assistant Director of Agriculture
BDO            Block Development Officer/s
DDA            Deputy Director/s of Agriculture
DEFM           Department of Economics and Farm Management. JNAU
GOI            Government of India
GOMP           Government of Madhya Pradesh
HYV            High Yielding Variety/Varieties
IRRI           International Rice Research Institute
ICAR           Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ICRISAT        International Crops Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics
JDA            Joint Director/s of Agriculture
JNAU           Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University
LDB            State Cooperative Land Development Bank
M              Million
MP             Madhya Pradesh
PCS            Primary Credit Society/Societies
RBI            Reserve Bank of India
SCB            State Cooperative Bank/s
SDEO           Sub-divisional Extension Officer/s
SMS            Subject Matter Specialist
SPU            Statistics and Planning Unit, Department of Agriculture
TO             Training Officer
VLW            Village Level Worker/s
CROP SEASON
Kharif           Summer Rainy Season
Rabi             Winter Dry Season



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION   .... ............... .. ....... .  i - iii
I.   INTRODUCTION  ................ S.................. ........... 1-*
II.   BACKGROUND   ......
A.   Agriculture in Madhya Pradesh 1................                  I
B.   Administration and Infrastructure                ....            2
C.    Strategy for Agricultural Development                           5
III.    THE PROJECT  6         .............................                   6
A .   General Description   .. ............. . ..........             6
B.   Detailed Features   .... ............... .* .... a.              6
1.  Agricultural Extension .....................                6
2.  Adaptive Research .                                         9
3.  Monitoring and Evaluation Units ............    10
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING   .......................    11
A.    Cost Estimates ....... *.....*...0.0.. ....... ....................    11
B.    Proposed Financing   .........  .................. .   12
C.   Procurement ............ ................. ...... .   12
D.    Disbursement and Credit ....................                   13
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......            ...................    14
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ............ .. ...........   16
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............   18
This docurnent has a mtrketd distribution cand may be used by rocipients only in the perforrnnco
|of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Bank *uthoriation.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture in Madhya Pradesh
Table  1.     Basic Data for Project Districts.
Table  2.     Size of Land Holdings in Project Area.
Table  3.     Rainfall Data for the Project Area.
Table  4.     Area of Principal Crops
Table  5.     Yield of Main Crops
2.   Agricultural Extension and Training
3.   Agricultural Research
Table  1.     Main Research Centers for Important Crops of Madhya Pradesh.
Table  2.     Location of Seed Multiplication Farms.
Table  3.     Project Costs.
Table  4.     Building Requirements.
Table  5.     Vehicle Requirements.
Table  6.     Existing and Incremental Research Staff.
4.   Project Costs
Table  1.     Summary of Project Costs.
Table 2a.
and 2b.     Project Costs - Agricultural Extension.
Table  3.     Project Costs - Agricultural Training.
Table  4.     Project Costs - Project Monitoring and Evaluation.
Table  5.     Price Contingencies.
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
6.   Implementation Schedule
Table  1.     Schedule of Cumulative Staff Appointments.
Table  2.     Project Implementation Schedule.
7.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Appendix 1.   Staff Qualifications.
Table  1.     Summary - Monitoring and Evaluation Design Framework.
8.   Economic Analysis of Project
Table  1.     Economic Analysis.
Table 2a.     Economic Price of Paddy.
Table 2b.     Economic Price of Wheat.
Chart     Organizational Chart - World Bank 16789.
Map       IBRD 12539.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Madhya Pradesh, the largest state in India is generally self suffi-
cient in food production and in good monsoon years produces a surplus of be-
tween one and two million tons. Only 9% of cultivated land is irrigated
and yields from rainfed areas have largely remained stagnant over the past
twenty years. As a result of a successful approach to extension which was
pioneered under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN),
the Government of Madhya Pradesh decided to extend the reorganization to cover
both irrigated and rainfed areas in 15 of 45 districts in the state. To carry
out this reorganization and to strengthen adaptive research will require the
provision and training of additional staff, housing, equipment and transport.
ii.       The five year project would:
(a) Provide additional staff, housing, offices, transportation
and training to consolidate the reorganization of the ex-
tension service.
(b) Develop and upgrade five existing commodity oriented regional
research stations and seven sub-stations by farm development,
provision of staff, equipment, laboratory facilities, housing
and vehicles.
(c) Provide staff, equipment and funds for studies to evaluate and
monitor project progress and impact.
iii.      Total project costs (inclusive of contingencies) are estimated at
Rs 187.75 million (US$20.86 million). The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 mil-
lion would finance 50% of project costs, net of duties and taxes, including
foreign exchange costs of US$1.2 million.
iv.       Items to be financed would include civil works, mainly construc-
tion of housing and offices, purchase of vehicles, including motorcycles,
bicycles and equipment and incremental staff costs. Civil works contracts
(US$3.6 million) would be small and widely dispersed, both geographically and
over time, and would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding following local advertising. There are numerous qualified local con-
tractors to carry out civil works. About 100 vehicles of various types
(US$1.1 million) would be required and would be purchased in small quantities
over three years. As adequate maintenance and availability of spares would be
of paramount importance, this would necessitate purchase of vehicles of types
already widely used by Government Departments and which are locally manufac-
tured. Procurement would be by local competitive bidding under existing pro-
cedures; motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.6 million) would be purchased by



- ii -
individual staff, according to their preference as they would be expected to
repay the purchase price. Scientific equipment (US$0.6 million) for research
stations would involve small contracts with different suppliers of specialized
items, and international competitive bidding would, therefore, not be practical.
GOMP's established local procurement procedures, utilizing competitive bidding
where appropriate, would be employed. Orders for purchase of minor equipment
and furniture (US$0.5 M) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased
following similar competitive bidding procedures, except where orders are
valued less than US$50,000 when they would be purchased by prudent shopping
through normal trade channels. The balance of project costs (US$14.5 million)
would consist of local training (US$0.5 million), incremental staff salaries
(US$9.3 million) and operating expenditures for research stations, offices
and vehicles (US$4.7 million). As bulk procurement is not involved, expendi-
ture would be according to existing GOMP procedures.
v.        Overall responsibility for implementation of the extension program
would be with the Director of Agriculture and that for research with the
Director of Research, Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University. An Additional
Director of Agriculture would be responsible for day to day administration of
agricultural extension, assisted by three Deputy Directors, one each respon-
sible for administration, extension and technical guidance. An Associate
Director of Research (ADR) located at each of five regional research stations,
would be responsible to Director of Research for carrying out an agreed pro-
gram of work at the station and on associated sub-stations. ADRs would also
supervise a research agronomist in each district who would be responsible for
carrying out field trials on 26 existing government seed farms and on farmer
fields.
vi.       Neither extension nor research can function effectively without close
coordination at all administrative levels. A Project Coordinating Committee,
chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner would ensure cooperation
between various government organizations and the University. A Central Plan-
ning Committee, chaired by the Director of Agriculture and comprising research
and extension staff from Divisional and District levels, would provide a mech-
anism to evaluate seasonal research results, define programs for further re-
search, approve detailed district programs for extension and propose annual
programs of farm level trials of already proven agricultural practices.
Regional Planning Committees would formulate and review extension and research
programs at local level for ratification by the Central Planning Committee.
Monitoring of the project would be the responsibility of a unit to be located
in the Department of Agriculture and an independent evaluation of project im-
pact would be carried out under the direction of the Agricultural Production
Commissioner with funds provided under the project.
vii.      Total project costs over the five year period, including physical
contingencies, amount to about US$20.9 M (US$9.9 per farm family assuming
2.1 M farm families in project districts). Incremental costs, following proj-
ect completion, would be about US$1.18 per farm family per annum, compared to
GOMP present annual budget expenditures on agriculture of about US$9.1 per
family (assuming 6.5 million farm families) and would be met without difficulty.



-iii -
viii.     The design of the project, its timing, scope, relative size of
project components and organizational arrangements are based on past expe-
rience with similar successful agricultural extension and research reorga-
nization in India. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of
project is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural
practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely
to extension and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in
Madhya Pradesh to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy.
However, there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency
of utilization of resources which would be brought about by the project,
would generate a high rate of return. The principal economic benefit of
the project would be an increase in agricultural production, particularly
foodgrains. Given the present cropping pattern (paddy 15%, wheat 20%, pulses
25% and other lower valued cereals 40%), it would be reasonable to expect
that by Year 7 crop yields, over at least 50% of all cropped land, would in-
crease by 25 kg per ha or by less than 4% over the "without project" situa-
tion, giving an economic rate of return of 50%. Given the performance of
the new extension service, elsewhere in India, there is little risk these
yield increases would not be attained, since the best farmers in Madhya
Pradesh already obtain nearly twice current average yields and, on research
stations substantially higher yield levels than these are achieved. This
high rate of return should, however, be treated with caution since, as im-
proved agricultural practices spread, further investments in infrastructure
and services would become necessary.
ix.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient orga-
nization and management of extension and research services as well as on
farmers' response. Experience with on-going projects has already demonstrated,
however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation and delivery
of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project is different
from ongoing activities in that it mainly concentrates on rainfed, rather
than irrigated areas and for this reason, there is a somewhat higher degree
of risk concerning achievement of yield increases. However, there are a
significant number of improved practices and research findings suitable for
dissemination which can substantially improve yields, even under rainfed
conditions.
x.        In the past, agricultural development strategy has been aimed at
achieving production increases mainly through investment in irrigation and
through use of 'optimal' packages of practices, involving HYV with substantial
doses of fertilizer and pesticides. The reorganized extension service would
focus first on improved cultural practices and better farm management and use
of low cost inputs; adoption of these recommendations would primarily involve
more labor -- an asset most small farmers have in abundance. Thus, aside from
generating high economic benefits, the project would have a beneficial impact
Dn marginal and small farmers, now living close to the poverty line.
xi.       The project is considered suitable for an IDA credit of US$10.0
million.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Madhya Pradesh (MP), the largest state in area in India has a pop-
ulation of some 45 million, comprising about 6.5 million farming families cul-
tivating 18.6 million hectares of land. Of this area cropped, only 9% is irri-
gated. Although yields are generally low and have stagnated over the past
twenty years, the state produces an agricultural surplus of about one to two
million tons in most years. But the surplus fluctuates widely from year to
year due to uncertain monsoon rains.
1.02      The Fifth State Plan gives high priority to increasing agricultural
productivity through low cost methods such as the wide use of improved varie-
ties (HYV) and adoption of better husbandry practices. It seeks to bring
about these changes through a more effective extension service and by re-
orientation of agricultural research to better meet the needs of farmers. In
line with this policy and as a result of the success of a new extension system
pioneered under the Chambal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 562-IN),
the Government of Madhya Pradesh set up a working group to prepare a project
under which extension services and agricultural research would be improved
in 15 of 45 districts of the State. The project was submitted to IDA in mid
1976 with a request for financial assistance in its implementation.
1.03      This appraisal report is based upon the findings of a mission which
visited Madhya Pradesh in October 1976, comprised of Messrs. C.P.R. Nottidge,
Y. Elkana, F. Schorosch and A. Sfeir-Younis (IDA) and Messrs. S. Freiberg and
G. Mathia (consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in Madhya Pradesh
2.01      General.  Madhya Pradesh, situated in the heart of India, has a
total area of 442, 841 km2. Population density is about 102 per km2, which
is relatively low compared to other Indian states. Agriculture dominates the
economy providing 56% of the net domestic product of the State and giving
employment to 80% of the working population.
2.02      Topography, Soil and Climate.  On the basis of physical features
Madhya Pradesh comprises six main topographic regions, ranging from the
northern low lying gangetic plains to the Bastar Plateau. Based on soil



-2-
type, rainfall and temperature conditions, there are fourteen main agro-
climatic regions each with specific cropping patterns. Details are given
in Annex 1. The distinctions between regions are important since extension
recommendations have to be carefully tailored to local conditions (para 3.11).
Annual rainfall varies from 1,500 mm in eastern districts to below 800 mm in
some northern areas, but year to year variations in total rainfall and its
distribution are considerable. Most rain falls in the monsoon months of June
to October, with about 10% in the remaining part of the year. Mean tempera-
tures vary from about 370C maximum in May to about 10°C minimum from December
to February.
2.03      Land Tenure and Distribution.  Besides the basic difficulties of
raising agricultural productivity under such variable rainfall conditions,
the presence of large numbers of small farms, complex tenancy arrangements
and a high percentage of tribal people in the population are additional major
challenges to modernizing the agricultural sector. "Marginal" farmers, with
less than 1 ha, operate 32% of all holdings using only 3.4% of the State's
cultivable land. "Small" farmers, with holdings between I and 2 hectares,
operate 17% of all holdings on 6.3% of the cultivable land. On the other
hand, sharecropping and tenancy arrangements are still widespread, despite
land tenure legislation, and further militate against production increases,
as sharecroppers and tenants generally have neither access to institutional
credit, nor the incentive to bring about permanent improvements on the land
they farm. Tribal people, representing about 20% of total population, live
mainly from forest products and engage only in a primitive, often shifting
type of agriculture. Further details are in Annex 1.
2.04      Agricultural Production.  Of the State's 44.3 M ha, 18.6 M ha are
cropped with an intensity of 111%, giving a total area under crops of 20.5 M
ha in 1974/75. Only 1.74 M ha are irrigated (9% of the net area sown). Of
foodgrains, (61% of cropped area) the most important are paddy, wheat and
sorghum. Pulses occupy 22% of the land, the rest growing oilseeds (linseed,
groundnut, sesamum and mustard) and sugarcane, cotton, fruit, vegetables and
spices. Due to good rainfall total food production reached 12.2 M tons in
1975/76 compared with an average production of 10.8 M tons over the preceeding
five years, but over the past 20 years production has increased only by 1%
p.a., with high year to year variations. Further details are given in Annex 1.
B. Administration and Infrastructure
2.05      Organization.  MP is divided into 45 Administrative Districts, each
headed by a Collector, and 457 Development Blocks, the local rural administra-
tive unit, each administered by a Block Development Officer (BDO). Local par-
ticipation in government sponsored development programs is ensured through
popularly elected local government bodies: Panchayats at village level, Pan-
chayat Samitis at the Block and the Zilla Parishad at district level which
are under the control of the Collector. The Department of Agriculture headed
by a Director, answerable to the Agricultural Production Commissioner, is



-3-
principally responsible for agricultural extension (Chart 16789). Further-
more, the Department, in coordination with those agencies providing farmers
with seed, fertilizer, pesticides, irrigation, electricity and credit, seeks
to ensure timely provision of these inputs by compiling, at field level, an-
ticipated demands. In addition to extension activities the Department under-
takes a statewide program of soil and water conservation and is responsible
for implementation of special development schemes. To carry out these pro-
grams the Director of Agriculture is assisted at headquarters by an Addi-
tional Director (ADA), nineteen Joint Directors (JDA) and several subject
matter specialists (SMS) of the rank of Deputy Director (DDA) and Assistant
Director (Asst. DA). Organizational arrangements are shown in Chart - World
Bank 16789. The 45 Agricultural Districts are grouped into 11 Divisions.
2.06      Agricultural programs are coordinated by eleven divisional JDA,
assisted by SMS and controlling a number of districts, each headed by a DDA.
At Block level, there is one Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) who super-
vises the work of some 10 Village Level Workers (VLW) each responsible for
some 1,500-2,000 families. Some districts are designated Intensive Agricul-
ture Development Districts when staffing levels are doubled and under cen-
trally sponsored development schemes (e.g. vegetable, sugarcane and Drought
Prone Area Projects) additional staff are also provided. VLW are responsible
for agricultural extension but their effect is small because of the large number
of farmers each worker is expected to reach and the considerable time spent on
regulatory and statistic gathering functions and collection of farm input and
credit requirements. In addition, poor supervision, training and technical
support and absence of communications contribute further to the VLW's in-
effectiveness. This has all resulted in few and sporadic farm level contacts
and low impact on yields, particularly of small farmers. Further details are
in Annex 2.
2.07      Training of Agricultural Staff.  AEO are usually direct recruits
from agricultural college who subsequently receive minimal in-service training.
VLW are generally secondary school leavers, recruited after completion of a
two-year pre-service course given at one of the Department of Agriculture's
five Gramsevak Training Centers. There is very limited subsequent in-service
training for VLW and many older AEO and VLW who received their basic training
before many of the more recent technological advances are now technically out
of date.
2.08      Agricultural Research.  For the past eleven years agricultural re-
search in MP has been the responsibility of the Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural
University (JNAU) which was inaugurated in October 1964, with headquarters at
Jabalpur. Six agricultural, two veterinary and one agricultural engineering
college are under the control of the University and located throughout the
State. Each of the institutions is involved in teaching and research and has
an adjacent research station with one or more sub-stations. There are 16 sub-
stations. Some 300 professional staff are engaged in research, though gener-
ally only part-time. Further details are at Annex 3.
2.09      Approximately half of funds for research come from the India Council
of Agricultural Research (ICAR) (which currently finances some 35 different
research projects), the rest is provided by the State. JNAU maintains



close ties with organizations such as ICRISAT, IRRI and US Department of Agri-
culture as well as national institutes. An Indo-British research project on
dryland farming has recently started at Indore. The research program is run
by a Director of Research, responsible to the Vice Chancellor. College re-
search programs are drawn up in agreement between the Director of Research
(JNAU) and Director of Agriculture at meetings held twice yearly and prior to
each cropping season. At these meetings the latest package of practices, based
on recent research findings, and priorities for future work are discussed.
2.10      Basic, applied and adaptive research is undertaken for all major
crops grown in MP with emphasis on cultivation practices, pest control, farm
implements and the breeding of improved varieties. Past work which has led
to the release of a number of improved varieties of wheat, rice, cotton, lin-
seed, maize and other crops has largely concentrated on producing recommenda-
tions for irrigated Rabi crops, using HYV and high levels of fertilizer appli-
cation. Insufficient attention has been paid to Kharif rainfed crops and to
providing small farmers with recommendations as to how they might maximize
yields given little or no access to credit (para 2.03). Centrally sponsored
crop research schemes, whilst responsible for the major research impact, are,
by virtue of their content, more oriented to national requirements than those
of State and regional needs. In addition, research workers, at the major re-
search stations, normally devote much of their time to teaching, resulting in
insufficient attention being given to the research program. In the past,
limited funds have been available from the State for research and most of
these have been devoted to the staffing and running of main research stations,
leaving substations under-staffed, under-developed and ill-equipped. This has
resulted in a lack of research to evaluate and adapt agronomic practices under
the different agroclimatic regions of the State. This major constraint to a
more comprehensive and effective program can be largely removed by the provision
of sufficient operating funds, equipment, laboratory facilities, staff and
housing.
2.11      Credit.  Most institutional credit comes from the cooperative move-
ment; the State Cooperative Bank for short and medium term and the State
Cooperative Land Development Bank for long term credit. Commercial banks also
provide all three types of credit but are still mainly urban oriented and have
made little impact on agricultural lending. Loans issued by State Cooperative
Bank have increased rapidly, from Rs 55 M in 1970 to Rs 1,850 M in 1976. Loans
issued by Land Development Banks have followed a similar pattern. The number
and membership of Primary Credit Societies (PCS) has stayed practically con-
stant; loans outstanding have increased, and percentage of overdues increased
from 39.5% in 1970 to 50.5% in 1975. Despite this rapid expansion, any con-
tinuing increase in credit, short, medium and long term, will depend largely
upon support for collection of overdues, upgrading of managerial capabilities
and streamlining of operational procedures. GOMP, the Agricultural Refinance
Development Corporation and Reserve Bank of India are aware of these needs
and taking steps to improve the position.



- 5 -
2.12      Fertilizer, Seeds and Pesticides.  Average consumption of fertil-
izer is 4.8 kg/ha of all nutrients (well below the national average of about
16 kg/ha), with a total consumption in 1975 of 99,000 nutrient tons. Distri-
bution of fertilizer is through Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Marketing
Federation, Agro-Industries Corporation, agro-service centers, marketing
cooperative societies, PCS and private dealers. HYV seeds availability and
distribution are generally well catered for and the situation should further
improve with the rationalization and expansion of the seed industry now taking
place under a Bank-assisted National Seed Project (1273-IN). Present input
storage is generally under-utilized and should meet requirements over the
project period, especially as extension efforts will be directed to the adop-
tion of improved husbandry practices requiring minimal increases in input use.
A major constraint to wider use of pesticides relates to the weakness of exten-
sion services and difficulty of application by farmers. Provision of plant
protection specialists under the proposed project should help remedy this.
However, while there should be no problem meeting input requirements in the
short run, problems could arise in the longer term requiring a careful exami-
nation and strengthening of the physical distribution system.
2.13      Crop Marketing.  State Marketing Board provides an institutional
and legal framework for regulated marketing and through which the majority of
agricultural produce marketed in the project area passes. These regulated
markets (mandis) are located either in large towns (secondary markets) or in
village areas (primary markets). At these markets all produce is sold by
auction, and the Board provides storage and other facilities such as canteens,
cattle layerage, etc. There are no major overall marketing problems, but in
some areas facilities are not adequate. The Board is actively engaged in im-
proving existing mandis and wherever needed providing new ones throughout the
State, using finance raised by a 1% levy on all produce auctioned, or through
state or centrally sponsored schemes.
C. Strategy for Agricultural Development
2.14      Production increases over the past decade have come largely from
irrigated crops, while yields from rainfed areas have remained stagnant. Em-
phasis has been placed on raising production through use of inputs, including
HYV, fertilizer, and irrigation, thus benefiting the larger farmer and bypass-
ing the majority of marginal and small farmers. To redress this balance and
to raise foodgrain production in the short run, emphasis will have to be placed
on raising yields largely through better agricultural practices such as timely
sowing, optimal plant populations and better weeding. The main priority for
increasing agricultural production thus lies in closing the gap between present
practices of the majority of farmers and existing technology used by the best
farmers, thus transferring to farmers the knowhow of already proven but simple
improvements. This can largely be achieved by improvements to present agri-
cutural extension methods. However, such improvement needs to be backed by
an effective and responsive adaptive research program, as a successful exten-
sion service will quickly generate demand for more sophisticated advice.



-6-
Existing technology will suffice for the next few years, but additional re-
search is needed to bring new technologies forward after that time. The
proposed project is aimed at building on these opportunities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project would reorganize and strengthen the agricultural exten-
sion service and upgrade and develop adaptive research in 15 administrative
districts of MP with the objective of achieving early and sustained improve-
ment in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. These improve-
ments in production would largely be brought about by the wide adoption of
low cost, labor intensive agricultural practices. The design of the proj-
ect, its timing, scope, relative size of project components and organizational
arrangements are based on past experience with similar successful agricultural
extension and research reorganization in India and is the fourth of its kind
to be supported by IDA.
3.02      The five year project would comprise:
(a) Reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension service. Provision of additional staff,
housing, offices, equipment, transportation and staff
training to consolidate the reorganization;
(b) Strengthening and re-orientation of applied and adaptive
agricultural research. Development and upgrading of
five existing regional research stations and seven
substations by farm development, provision of staff,
equipment, hostel accommodation, laboratory facilities
and vehicles; and
(c) Project monitoring and evaluation. Provision of staff,
equipment and funds for studies to evaluate and monitor
project progress.
B. Detailed Features
1. Agricultural Extension
3.03      Under the project agricultural extension would be reorganized and
intensified in 15 of 45 administrative districts of MP (see Map) following
the pattern successfully used in the Chambal Command Area Development Project
over the past three years. The project would provide farmers, on a regular and



-7-
systematic basis, with up to date advice on and demonstrations of farming
practices best suited to their specific conditions and capable of having an
immediate impact on production and income. This would be achieved by strictly
programmed visits from regularly trained field staff, supported by professional
advice from within the Department of Agriculture and from Research. To ensure
a timely flow to farmers of credit and input supplies, a small field staff of
one Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO) and three Village Level Workers (VLW)
would be located in each of 140 Blocks making up project districts. This staff
would provide information on demand for these services to those concerned and
would deal solely with these and other regulatory and administrative functions
of the Department of Agriculture.
3.04      Based on an average of one VLW to every 600 farm families, 3,500
VLW would be required to cover 2.1 million farm families located throughout
the project area. Actual number of farmers covered by each VLW would vary
from about 400 to 800 farmers depending on population density and communica-
tion network. Each main group (circle) would be divided into 8 smaller groups
(hars) of 50 to 100 farmers, each to be visited regularly on a given day
of the week. In rainfed areas and based on four visit days each week, each
har would be visited once in every two weeks. In fully irrigated areas weekly
visits might be required. VLW would work primarily through about 8-10 contact
farmers selected from amongst each har. The message communicated to farmers
would be simple, concentrating on the most important crops of the locality and
initially on improved cultural practices of immediate relevance. VLW would
receive the extension message at training sessions held one day in a two week
period by his supervisor, an Agricultural Extension Officer (AEO), supported by
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) (para 3.05). The three days remaining in the
two week period (one rest day per week), would be devoted to demonstrations,
field trials, making up missed visits and administrative work. Further de-
tails are in Annex 2. Fortnightly training of VLW by AEO and SMS would be
a major feature of the extension system. AEO and SMS would be trained for two
days each month at district level by district staff, backed up by staff from
research stations. Limited equipment and extension aids would be required for
staff training and this would be provided under the project together with a
mobile cinema van, public address system and letter press for each district.
Details are at Annex 4, Table 1, 2a, 2b and 3.
3.05      Technical Support and Supervision.  To ensure satisfactory super-
vision, training and control of field staff, the project's 16 districts 1/
would be further divided into 50 subdivisions, each headed by a Sub-Divisional
Officer (SDEO). These posts would be filled by upgrading existing AEO or
transferring district staff. Each subdivision (comprising about 3 Blocks)
would be staffed by 10-12 AEO and 70-80 VLW. To strengthen technical backup,
the project would provide three SMS at each of new subdivisions, one each in
agronomy, plant protection and training. At district level the project also
provides for specialists, one in information and training and four to give
technical support in such matters as water management, farm implements, ento-
mology, pathology, horticulture and tribal sociology. Farm management support
1/   One district, Bilaspur, because of its large size, would, for project
purposes, be divided into two, thus making 16 project districts.



- 8 -
would be provided by an Agricultural Economist seconded from the Project Moni-
toring Unit (para 3.15). SMS and specialists would spend their time about
equally between field visits (including guiding and supporting lower level
staff), research and training. Provision has also been made for additional
support staff. Details at Annex 4, Tables 2a and 2b.
3.06      Staffing and Project Phasing.  About two-thirds of 3,500 VLW and
one half of 740 AEO needed to achieve recommended staffing levels are already
in position and VLW concerned have, in the past, been administratively respon-
sible to the Department of Agriculture, which has not been the case in many
other States. As five districts would be covered by enhanced extension in
Project Year 1 and eleven in Project Year 2, no difficulty in recruiting and
training recommended levels of staff is envisaged. Fifty SDEO and 150 SMS
would be mainly recruited from within the Department of Agriculture but would
require additional training (para 3.09). Some SMS would also be seconded from
the University. Assurances were obtained that staff would be appointed in
accordance with the schedule in Annex 6, Table 1.
3.07      Housing, Subdivisional Offices and Transportation.  The proposed
extension methodology is based on regular and frequent farm visits by exten-
sion staff. It is essential, therefore, that field level staff and their
supervisors live near their work and that they are sufficiently mobile to
enable them to function effectively. At present, housing available for rent
in rural areas is limited and often far from their place of work and extension
workers rely on public transport, thus spending much of their time traveling.
Assurances were obtained that GOMP would ensure VLW would live in the area
assigned for their operations, and for this purpose GOMP would provide such
low-cost housing as necessary. Assurances were also obtained that GOMP
would furnish to the Association for its review the standard design and cost
estimates of buildings and these were reviewed at negotiations. The project
would provide modest housing for about 20% of field level staff and would
finance construction of 50 subdivisional offices cum training halls, their
equipment and furniture. Housing estimated to cost Rs 15,000 (US$1,700) for a
VLW house has, as yet, not been located and assurances were obtained that GOMP
would, by December 1978, complete a survey to locate sites for VLW housing and
offices. The project would also provide for additional equipment and vehicles
at headquarters, district and subdivisional levels and bicycles for VLW and
motorcycles for AEO. Motorcycles and bicycles would be sold to staff on
credit. Assurances were obtained that GOMP would provide credit to staff on
such terms and conditions as to create incentive for the purchase of motor-
cycles and bicycles and that travelling allowances would be of sufficient
magnitude to provide sufficient incentive to ensure purchase and utilization
of vehicles by field staff. Further details are at Annex 4 Table 2a.
3.08      Adaptive Trials and Demonstrations.  The constant development and
flow of locally adapted and proven farming recommendations are basic to the
intensive extension effort. In addition to adaptive research at regional
research centers and sub-stations, land and facilities would be made avail-
able at each of 26 Government owned seed farms, located throughout the project



area, for the purpose of carrying out field trials. Funds would also be pro-
vided under the project to enable trials to be conducted on farmer's fields.
One research agronomist would be seconded to each district from the University
to guide and supervise this work.
3.09      Staff Training.  At the start of the project new staff would have
to be trained and others upgraded and the project provides fellowships for
SMS training and the incremental costs of inservice and short term training.
Five existing training centers would be upgraded under the project to provide
pre-service training for future VLW, upgrading courses for older VLW and
short term training of other field staff. Buildings would be renovated, class-
rooms added and transportation and equipment provided. A limited number of
scholarships would also be provided to allow for career advancement of selected
VLW and AEO.
3.10      Soil Testing Laboratories.  Fertilizer recommendations to farmers
should be made on the basis of soil testing. Under the project three small
mobile and four stationary soil testing laboratories would be equipped and
staffed to supplement present district facilities and thus provide an adequate
service throughout the project area. Details of staff and equipment are in
Annex 4 (Tables 2a and 2B).
2. Adaptive Research
3.11      The project would strengthen applied and adaptive research so as to
provide practical answers to farmers' problems, particularly of rainfed crops
in all the main agroclimatic zones to be found in project districts. It would
focus on main crops, especially those grown under rainfed conditions and con-
centrate on developing improved cultural practices using early maturing and
high yielding varieties. Particular attention would be paid to soil and water
management, specifically those areas which are seasonally flooded, and to the
development of improved farm implements, farming systems and cropping patterns.
Research would be conducted through a multidisciplinary team approach.
3.12      The research effort would support the development of five existing
agricultural college research stations as Regional Research Stations and which
are presently located in different agroclimatic zones of the project area. For
location see Map. Each Regional Station would be responsible for principal
research on the main crop grown in the agroclimatic zone (Annex 3, Table 1).
In addition, seven research substations would be supported so that all major
agroclimatic variations found throughout the project area would be covered.
Adaptive field trials would be carried out on 26 government seeds farms and
farmers' fields. The seed farms are listed in Annex 3 Table 2.
3.13      The project would provide for civil works, including the construc-
tion of laboratory and office buildings, staff housing and a 25 bed hostel
at each Regional Station to facilitate Extension staff and farmer training.
The project would also provide fencing, land development, and construction of



- 10 -
greenhouses, nethouses, screen-houses and farm buildings at all stations.
Laboratory equipment, furniture, vehicles, incremental staff salaries and
research operating expenses would also be provided. Details are in Annex 3,
Tables 3-6.
3.14      Staff Training.  At full development professional staff at Regional
Research Stations would increase from 252 to 317, an increase of 65 and on
substations from 52 to 101. Support Staff would also be increased. Most
staff would be directly recruited by the University through well established
and satisfactory procedures and assurances were obtained that staff would be
appointed in accordance with the Schedule in Annex 6, Table 1. Five fellow-
ships would be provided annually for periods up to six months to permit
scientists to visit key institutions to gain additional specialized training.
Details are at Annex 3 Table 3.
3. Monitoring and Evaluation Units
3.15      An essential feature of the project would be the monitoring and
evaluation of project progress and its impact (details are at paras 5.12-5.15
and Annex 7). For this purpose, the project would provide staff, equipment
and transport to strengthen the Statistics and Planning Unit of the Department
of Agriculture and provide funds for separate evaluation studies. Monitoring
would consist of the continuous gathering of information on project inputs and
activities (timely provision of vehicles, staff, equipment and buildings) and
objectives (training of extension and research staff, development of new
agricultural recommendations). This information would alert project management
and policy makers to problems of implementation requiring corrective action
and would provide part of the data necessary for evaluation. Project evalu-
ation would analyze project outputs (the sum of activities of the trained
extension and research workers), effects (increased farmer income and its
distribution, increased production, higher utilization of labor) and de-
velopmental impact (transformation of the rural economy). It would provide
project management and policy-makers with the data necessary to assess and,
if required, adjust policies, objectives, institutional arrangements and
resources affecting the project during implementation.



- 11 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Detailed cost estimates, which include duties and taxes estimated
at about US$0.83 M, are given in Annex 4, and summarized below:
Thousand Rupees       Thousand US Dollar/a % Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total  Exchange
Extension
Civil Works                 16,586     -      16,586   1,843      -      1,843     -
Equipment                    4,412     237    4,649       490      27      517      5
Vehicles                     7,507   2,342    9,849       834     260   1,094    24
Soil Testing Facilities       877      293    1,170        97      33      130    25
Establishment /b            76,652   1,015   77,667   8,517       113   8,630      1
Sub-total            106,034   3,887  109,921  11,781        433  12,214      4
Training Centers
Civil Works                    525      -        525       58     -         58     -
Equipment and Vehicles         150      25       175       16       3       19    19
Establishment /b /c          1,921      10    1,931       213       1      214     1
Sub-total              2,596       35    2,631      287        4     291      1
Research
Civil Works                  7,468      -      7,468      830     -        830     -
Equipment and Vehicles       1,705   4,425    6,130       189    491       680    72
Establishment /b /c         25,321     538   25,859   2,813       60    2,873      2
Sub-total             34,494   4,963   39,457   3,832    551    4,383    13
Monitoring and Evaluation  3,740         22    3,762      416      2       418      1
Total Before
Contingencies            146,864   8,907  155,771  16,316    990   17,306        6
Contingencies
Physical                     5,431      472    5,903      604     53       657      8
Price                       24,770   1,304   26,074   2,752    145    2,897        5
Sub-total             30,201   1,776   31,977   3,356    198    3,554         6
Total Project Costs        177,065  10,683  187,748  19,672  1,188   20,860         6
/a   US$1 = Rs 9.0.
/b   Establishment costs include incremental operating cost, incremental
salaries and allowances and taxes.
/c   Includes cost of local training.



- 12 -
4.02      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal.  Physical
contingencies have been applied on: civil works (10%), equipment and furni-
ture (10%), and office and vehicle operating costs (5%) and average about
4% on total basic project cost. Price contingencies have been applied cumu-
latively as follows (Annex 4):
(a)  Locally procured equipment, vehicles and local train-
ing 1.5% for the remaining part of 1976, 6% in 1977
and 7% thereafter;
(b)  Civil works, 1.5% for the remaining part of 1976, 7%
in 1977, and 8% thereafter; and
(c)  Incremental establishment cost (salaries and allowances,
incremental extension and research operating cost), 4.5%
for the remaining part of 1976 and 6% per annum from
1977 onwards.
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Finance to cover total project costs of Rs 187.75 M (US$20.86 M),
including taxes, duties and contingencies would be provided as follows:
IDA         GOMP/GOI        Total
-------- US$ Million -----------
10.0         10.86          20.86
(48%)         (52%)         (100%)
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 M would be to GOI on standard terms and,
would finance about 50% of project costs, net of taxes and duties but including
foreign exchange costs of Rs 10.7 M (US$1.2 M). IDA funds would be chan-
nelled through GOI to GOMP Department of Agriculture and JNAU, in accordance
with GOI standard terms and arrangements for the financing of state development
projects. The balance of project financing would come from GOMP.
C. Procurement
4.04      The main items to be procured are:  civil works and vehicles, in-
cluding cinema vans, motorcycles and bicycles and equipment. Civil works
range from small houses for VLW and offices-cum residences for AEO to larger
research and training buildings. Civil works contracts estimated to cost in
total some US$3.6. M would be small and dispersed, both geographically and
over time and would not be suitable for international competitive bidding.
Contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding follow-
ing advertising, and assurances were sought accordingly. There are numerous



- 13 -
qualified local contractors to carry out civil works and GOMP tendering pro-
cedures are satisfactory. Both the Department of Agriculture and MP Housing
Board are competent to oversee construction.
4.05      About 100 motor vehicles (US$1.1 M) of various types would be re-
quired under the project. They would be purchased in small quantities over
years and would be widely dispersed in rural areas. As adequate maintenance
and availability of spares would be of paramount importance, this would
necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types already used by Govern-
ment Departments. Thus procurement would be by local competitive bidding under
existing GOMP procedures which are adequate. Motorcycles and cycles (US$0.56
M) would be purchased by individual staff according to their preference.
4.06      Scientific equipment for research stations (US$0.6 M) would involve
small contracts with various suppliers of specialized items. International
competitive bidding would, therefore, not be practical. As most of the
world's leading manufacturers of scientific equipment represented in
India, are competitive, and could offer local maintenance service, GOMP's
established local procurement procedures, utilizing competitive bidding where
appropriate, would be employed. Orders for purchase of minor equipment and
furniture (US$0.55 M) would be bulked wherever possible and purchased follow-
ing similar competitive bidding procedures, except where valued at less than
US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shopping through normal
trade channels. Assurances were obtained in accordance with the above.
4.07      The balance of project costs (US$14.5 M) would consist of local
training (US$0.5 M), incremental salaries and allowances (US$9.3 M) and
operating expenditures for research stations, offices and vehicles (US$4.7 M)
not involving procurement.
D. Disbursement and Audit
4.08      Disbursements under the Credit would extend over five years for:
(a) 80% of cost of civil works, local training and locally procured
equipment and vehicles; and
(b) 45% of incremental staff costs of extension and research personnel
engaged on the project.
4.09      There would be no disbursement against operating expenditures for
research stations, offices and vehicles because these would be difficult to
identify for purposes of disbursement documentation. Disbursements against
(a), would be fully documented with the following exceptions. Payments under
civil works contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding Rs 50,000
and expenditures for locally procured items of equipment and vehicles costing
Rs 20,000 or less would be made against certified statements of expenditure.
Disbursements against (b) would be made against a certified statement of



- 14 -
expenditure, the documentation of which would be retained by Department of Agri-
culture and Director of Research, JNAU and would be available for inspection
by IDA during the course of Project review missions. GOMP would have its
internal auditors audit all certificates of expenditure at least once in every
six months and furnish the audit report to the Association promptly thereafter.
A schedule of projected disbursements is in Annex 5. Any savings in the Credit
account would be reallocated by increasing the percentage disbursement for
incremental staff costs.
4.10       Assurances were obtained that the Department of Agriculture and
JNAU would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under the project and
which would be audited by an independent auditor in a manner acceptable to the
Association. Audited accounts would be submitted to IDA not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      Project Implementation.  Overall responsibility for implementation
of the extension program would be with the Director of Agriculture, MP Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and that for research with the Director of Research,
Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University. As neither extension nor research
can function effectively without close cooperation, the relationship between
the two services, already good, would be formalized through regular meetings
at state and divisional levels (para 5.07-5.08) and through close working
relations at district level (para 5.10).
5.02      Extension  An Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA) would be
responsible for day to day administration and control of the extension program
in the sixteen selected project districts. The ADA would be assisted by three
Deputy Directors of Agriculture (DDA) (one each for administration, extension
and technical guidance) and a small support staff. This directorate would be
responsible for monitoring (para 5.11), recruitment and training of staff,
construction, budgeting, procurement, disbursement of funds and submission of
periodic progress reports in a form acceptable to IDA and which were agreed
at negotiations.
5.03      The reorganized extension program would involve a single line of
command from the Director of Agriculture, through the Additional Director,
division, district, sub-division and AEO to the VLW. As the Department of
Agriculture is still largely responsible for providing information on the
demand for farm inputs and credit, an additional AEO and three VLW would be
provided at Block level to perform these functions and to carry out the
regulatory and administrative responsibilities of the Department. The AEO
concerned would report directly to DDA at district headquarters on these
matters.  For details see organizational chart.
5.04      Research  The Director of Research JNAU would be responsible for
execution of the research program, for preparation and submission of financial
estimates to the Director of Agriculture (as funds contributed by GOMP for



- 15 -
research are channeled through the Department of Agriculture), recruitment of
staff, construction, procurement, disbursement of and accounting for project
ftnds and submission of periodic research programs and progress reports in a
form acceptable to IDA and which were agreed at negotiations.
5.05      An Associate Director of Research (ADR) located at each of the five
regional research stations would be responsible for carrying out an agreed
program of work (para 5.08) at both the regional center and its associated
sub-stations (Annex 3). The University would second a research agronomist
tc each district to supervise field trials to be established on 26 existing
government seed farms and on farmers fields.
5.06      Cooperation between Agriculture, Research and related agencies.  Co-
ordination at State level would be ensured through establishment of a Project
Coordinating Committee and an already operating Central Planning Committee.
5.07      A Project Coordinating Committee chaired by the Agricultural Pro-
duction Commissioner would be set up to meet at least once a year and as re-
quired. It would review extension proposals and would be responsible for
ensuring cooperation among various government organizations and the University.
The Additional Director of Agriculture would act as secretary. It would en-
sure that problems of credit, marketing and input supplies that might arise
as a result of proposed extension programs, were given due attention. The
committee would include the Vice Chancellor of the University, Secretaries
for Agriculture and Finance, Secretary, Irrigation Department, Registrar of
Cooperative Societies, Director of Agriculture, Director of Research and re-
presentatives of the Apex Marketing Federation, State Cooperative Bank, State
Land Development Bank and Agro-Industries Development Corporation. Assurances
were obtained accordingly.
5.08      A Central Planning Committee, chaired by the Director of Agricul-
ture and comprising Director of Research, Additional Director of Agriculture,
divisional and district extension officers, ADR and head of the evaluation
unit, would continue to meet at least twice yearly and assurances to this
efEect were obtained. As at present, it would provide a formal mechanism for
review of seasonal extension and research results, particularly field trials
and demonstrations; approve future research and extension programs submitted
by regional committees (para 5.10), generally review overall progress and
assess input and credit supply requirements associated with any extension
recommendations.
5.09      Regional Planning Committees, chaired by the senior Divisional Joint
Director of Agriculture would be established at each regional research station.
The Associate Director of Research, District Deputy Directors of Agriculture
and Subject Mlatter Specialists would all meet at least twice yearly to re-
view and formulate extension and research programs and submit proposals for
ratification by the Central Planning Committee.
5.10      Cooperating Institutions - Research.  ICAR and other national agri-
cultural research institutions would continue to furnish materials and in-
formation to regional and research substations for screening, testing and



- 16 -
evaluation. Problems requiring basic and applied research would be relayed by
these stations to other universities and ICAR. Collaboration with inter-
national institutions (IRRI, CIMMYT, ICRISAT and other key institutions else-
where in the world) would continue. Provision has been included in the project
for local training of research and extension staff at national institutions.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11      The establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system would gene-
rate data with which to measure output, effects and impact of project actions,
thus providing management guidance to those responsible for project implement-
ation and permit in-depth studies enabling an evaluation to be made of longer
term effects brought about by the project.
-5.12      Responsibility for project monitoring would lie with the Joint
Director, Statistics and Planning Unit (SPU), Department of Agriculture. SPU
would be strengthened at headquarters by the provision of a Senior Agricultural
Economist, farm management and marketing specialists and a small supporting
staff comprising statisticians and programmers. For details see Annex 4,
Table 5.  An agricultural economist supported by statistical assistants,
would be located at each district headquarters and would be responsible for
data collection and providing farm management advice to extension staff (para
3.05). Details are at Annex 7.
5.13      Responsibility for project evaluation would lie with the Agricul-
tural Production Commissioner. In-depth and longer term studies covering the
economic, institutional and technical impact of the project would be carried
out by local consultants which could include the already established Evalua-
tion Unit located within the Department of Economics and Farm Management,
JNAU, with funds provided under the project. The outline of these studies
is given in Annex 7, Table 1 and 2. Assurances were obtained that GOMP would
undertake monitoring and evaluation along the lines set out in Annex 7. Be-
cause of the need for uniform procedures for monitoring and evaluation of the
project and of similar projects being undertaken in other States, GOI, con-
cerned States and IDA are currently working out detailed procedures and it is
expected that these would be completed by December 1977. Results of such
monitoring and evaluation would be sent to IDA at least once each year.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
6.01      Financial.  Total project costs over the five year project develop-
ment period, including physical contingencies, amount to about US$20.9 M or
US$9.9 per benefiting farm family. Incremental costs after the project de-
velopment period, to be met from GOMP budget sources would be about US$2.5 M
per annum or US$1.18 per farm family per annum. This requirement compares
with GOMP present budgetary allocation to agricultural development projects
of about US$22 M equivalent annually and a total current expenditure of
US$468 M (1975/76). Incremental costs would be partly recovered by GOMP
through market levies (presently 1%) on paddy and other agricultural produce



- 17 -
entering commercial markets.  Stimulation of demand for agricultural inputs
would also increase state revenues from sales taxes on these items.
6.02      Economic.  The design of the project, its timing, scope relative
size of project components and organizational arrangements are based on past
experience with similar successful agricultural extension and research reor-
ganization in India. Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type
of project is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural
practices, which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely
to extension and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in
Mladhya Pradesh to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. How-
ever, there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of
utilization of resources which would be brought about by the project, would
generate a high rate of return. The principal economic benefit of the proj-
ect would be an increase in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
CGiven the present cropping pattern (paddy 15%, wheat 20%, pulses 25% and other
lower valued cereals 40%), it would be reasonable to expect that by Year 7
crop yields, over at least 50% of all cropped land, would increase by 25 kg
per ha or by less than 4% over the "without project" situation, giving an
economic rate of return of 50%.  Details are in Annex 8.  Given the perform-
ance of the new extension service, elsewhere in India, there is little risk
these yield increases would not be attained, since the best farmers in
Madhya Pradesh already obtained nearly twice current average yields and, on
research stations substantially higher yield levels than these are achieved.
T'his high rate of return should, however, be treated with caution since, as
improved agricultural practices spread, further investments in infrastructure
and services would become necessary.
6.03      Social.  In the past, the agricultural development strategy has been
aimed at achieving production increases mainly through investment in irriga-
tion and through use of 'optimal' packages of practices, involving HYV with
substantial doses of fertilizer and pesticides. Adoption of these improve-
ments usually requires credit which, more often than not, is not available to
small farmers; consequently larger farmers have benefited most from past
programs. The reorganized extension service would focus first on improved
cultural practices and better farm management and use of low cost inputs;
adoption of these recommendations would primarily involve more labor -- an
asset most small farmers have in abundance. Thus the project provides a
unique opportunity for small and marginal farmers to benefit and therefore,
aside from generating high economic benefits, the project would have a bene-
ficial impact on marginal and small farmers, now living close to the poverty
line.
6.04      Project Risks.  The most  significant risk lies in the fact that the
effectiveness of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an effi-
cient organization and management of extension and research services as well
as on farmers' response. Experience with ongoing projects has already de-
monstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formulation
and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed project is
different from ongoing activities in that it mainly concentrates on rainfed,



- 18 -
rather than irrigated areas, and for this reason, there is a somewhat higher
degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increases. However, there are
a significant number of improved practices and research findings suitable for
dissemination which can substantially improve yields, even under rainfed
conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend to be less affluent
and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even though benefits may be
lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would still be considerable,
both in economic and social terms. A second generation risk would be faced
when the success of the new methodology generates demand for additional in-
puts. If this were not met, the resultant farmer frustration could adversely
affect the success of the extension effort. However, at this juncture and
for some time to come, the deficiencies in the existing network for supplying
farmers' inputs are related to the lack of demand and there is slack in the
network which can be taken up to meet additional demand. The Project Coor-
dination Committee, which is charged with overseeing the planning and exe-
cution of the extension effort, is also responsible for assessing seasonal
input requirements and should be able to ensure the development of arrange-
ments capable of coping with increased demand.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following
major points that:
(a) GOMP would ensure that VLW would live in the area assigned
for their operations and for this purpose would provide
such low-cost housing as necessary (para 3.07);
(b) GOMP would, by December 1978, complete the necessary survey
to locate sites for VLW housing and offices (para 3.07);
(c) GOMP would furnish to the Association for its review the
standard design and cost estimates of proposed housing
(para 3.07) 1/;
(d) GOMP would make available credit to staff on such terms
and conditions as to create incentive for the purchase
of motorcycles and bicycles (para 3.07);
(e) all incremental Extension and Research staff would be
appointed in accordance with the schedule (paras 3.06
and 3.14);
(f) civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding following local advertising (para 4.04);
1/   These were reviewed at negotiations.



- 19 -
(g)  the Additional Director of Agriculture, responsible for the
extension program, would submit periodic progress reports
in a form acceptable to the Association (paras 5.02 and 5.04);
(h)  the Director of Research, JNAU, would submit annual research
programs for research stations developed under the project and
periodic progress reports in a form acceptable to the
Association (para 5.04);
(i)  a Project Coordinating Committee would be set up and would
meet at least once a year (para 5.07);
(j)  the Central Planning Committee would continue to meet
at least twice a year (para 5.08); and
(k)  GOMP would carry out monitoring and evaluation of the project
in such form as shall be agreed with the Association by
December 1977 and the results of such monitoring and evalua-
tion would be sent to the Association at least once a year
(para 5.13).
7.02      With the above assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA credit
of US$10.0 million to GOI.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURE
A. Background
General
1.        Madhya P5adesh (NP), situated in the heart of India, with a total
area of 442,841 km is the biggest state in India. It is bordered by Uttar
Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Maharastra, Gujarat and Rajasthan
states. The state lies between latitudes 170 to 260 N and 740 to 840 E.
Administratively it is divided into 45 districts. For location see map.
2.        Madhya Pradesh has an estimated popelation of about 45 M (41.7 M at
1971 census) and a density of some 100 per km which is relatively low compared
with other states.2 With a rural population of about 37 M and a cultivable
area of 185,600 km (about 42% of t e total land area), rural population den-
sity is some 200 inhabitants per km . About 1.74 M ha are irrigated (only 9%
of the net cropped area of 18.5 M ha); mostly by canal (45%) and well irriga-
tion (40%). The gross cropped area is reported to be 20.5 M ha, giving a
cropping intensity of 111%.
3.        The agricultural sector employs 80% of the working population of
which two-thirds are cultivators, the rest being laborers. The percentage
share of agriculture and allied activities is 56% of net domestic product
of the state. Gross value of agricultural output in 1972/73 per ha of gross
cropped area was 695 Rs and gross value of agricultural output per capita
rural population was 406 Rs in the same year.
B. The Project Districts
4.        Fifteen districts out of a- total of 45 have been selected for the
project and would be covered by intensive agricultural extension over a 2 year
period (5 districts in the first year, 10 in the second). The 5 first year
districts are: Bhind, Morena, Sehore, Balaghat and Raisen and the 10 remaining
districts: Bilaspur, Narsinghpur, Khandwa, Chhatarpur, Mandsaur, Hoshangabad,
Satna, Sagar, Jhabua and Chhindwara (see map). The districts were selected
for their potential for agricultural development, presence of progressive
farmers, and as being representative of the main agroclimatic zones, different
cropping patterns and soil regions to be found throughout the State. In the



Annex I
Page 2
case of Bhind and Morena districts, the availability of canal irrigation was
the criterion of selection. Brief details of each district, indicating
numbers of villages, rural households, and agricultural holdings, and total
irrigated area and distribution of main crops are given in Table 1.
5.        Land Distribution and Tenure.  Since 1956 the law provides for only
one class of land ownership, those who have full ownership rights. Provisions
have been made to safeguard the interests of cultivators by restricting
transfer and mortgage of land. To protect Tribals (20% of the population)
from expropriation of land, the law provides that transfers cannot take place
without prior permission of the Collector, the highest government official in
the District. To discourage absentee landlords, exploitative subletting of
land has been severely curtailed. Table 2 shows land distribution. This
indicates that 32% of holdings, representing only 3.4% of the cultivable area,
are less than 1 ha; and 9% of holdings (comprising about 42% of the land area)
are more than 10 ha in size.
6.        Rainfall, Water Resources and Groundwater Potential.  Annual average
rainfall varies from about 1500mm in eastern districts to below 600mm in the
northwest. In many years rainfall falls much below normal. Most rain falls
in the monsoon months of June to October. About 10% of rain falls in the
remaining part of the year.
7.        Main rainfall areas can be classified as the north-western region
(500 to 635mm), southeastern region (1270 to 1525mm), central region (760 to
1300mm) and western region (635 to 1020mm). Major agricultural crops grown
are determined by rainfall patterns. In normal years the amount of rainfall
received in different parts of the state is adequate for most crops, and
in some parts even allows for the growing of sugarcane. For district details
see Table 3.
8.        Some of the major rivers of India originate in or flow through
Madhya Pradesh--Narmada, Yamuna, Mahanadi, Godavari, Ganga, Tapti and Mahi
are examples. The valley of the Narmada river has a cultivable area of
about 5 M ha. Present estimates indicates the potential for river irrigation
as being 50% of the total cultivable area of Madhya Pradesh and groundwater
surveys show an availability of sub-surface water in many areas. The pros-
pects of a changing agriculture based on irrigation are thus considerable
and deserve high priority.
9.        Soils.  No detailed soil survey has yet been undertaken for Madhya
Pradesh as a whole. However, surveys conducted in a few selected areas,
indicate that the main soil types are alluvial, deep to shallow black, mixed
red and black, and skeltal soils. Black cotton soils occupy almost half of
the state and cover the area of the Malwa Plateau, Narmada valley and the
Satpura Ridge, and grow crops of cotton, pulses, sorghum and wheat. Alluvial
soils are mostly found in Morena, Bhind and Gwalior regions with wheat and
sorghum as the main crops. Red and yellow soils are found on the Chattisgarh
plains, where rice is the main crop.



Annex 1
Page 3
10.       Crop Zones.  Madhya Pradesh can be divided into five major crop
zones: Rice, Rice-Wheat, Wheat, Wheat-Sorghum and Cotton-Sorghum zones.
Rice zone - this is mainly a monocrop zone with oilseeds and pulses as
subsidiary crops and which are established by sowing in the standing
paddy crop about 2 weeks before harvest.  Over 75% of the cultivated area
in kharif is under paddy.
Rice-Wheat zone - both crops are grown as monocrops under rainfed conditions.
About 53% of the area is under rabi crops, chiefly wheat and gram; and 47%
under kharif crops, chiefly paddy and millets.
Wheat zone - this is essentially a rabi crop zone. Kharif crops are not
planted due to difficulties of soil and water management on heavy clay soils
and severe infestation of weeds during the monsoon season.
Wheat-Sorghum zone - Three sub-zones can be distinguished, Gird region with
alluvial soils, the Bundelkhand region with mixed red and black soils and
the Satpura Plateau with shallow medium black soils. Here soils present
less drainage problems and permit, in areas of reasonable rainfall, double
cropping with wheat in winter and sorghum as the monsoon summer crop.
Cotton-Sorghum zone - this zone has 65% area under kharif crops and 35%
under rabi crops, with sorghum being planted early. The climate is well
suited to the growing of cotton.
C. Agricultural Production
11.       Performance.  Madhya Pradesh, due to its size, is one of the major
food grain producers. Since 1971 its share of total Indian foodgrain produc-
tion has been 11 percent, second only to Uttar Pradesh. Percentage contribu-
tion of the state to total production of different crops is: rice 8%, sorghum
17%, maize 9%, small millets 10%, wheat 11% and barley 7%. Pulses play an
important role in Madhya Pradesh's predominately rainfed agriculture with a
contribution of 17% to the total pulse production of India. In absolute
terms, total annual production of foodgrains has, over the last 5 years, been
about 10.8 M tons, 8.5 M tons of cereals and 2.2 M tons of pulses. Production
of cash crops, such as sugarcane and cotton, is presently unimportant com-
pared to Madhya Pradesh's role as a foodgrain producer.
12.       As impressive as Madhya Pradesh's overall contribution to agricul-
tural output is, its progress with regard to raising agricultural producti-
vity has been negligible. While the total area under foodgrains has increased
by about 20% over the last 20 years, total foodgrain production has increased
only 23% over the same period (Table 4). Average yields of major food crops
are: rice 705 kg/ha, sorghum 692 kg/ha, pearl millet 650 kg/ha, maize
855 kg/ha, wheat 733 kg/ha and gram 588 kg/ha. The yields of rice and wheat
are especially low in comparison to those of other Indian states and could
be improved substantially even under rainfed conditions (Table 5).



Annex 1
Page 4
13.       Crops.  Generally only where irrigation is available are two crops
grown each year (9% of the cultivated area); on the rest usually only one crop
is planted. Where farmers consider the rabi crop more rewarding, they leave
the land fallow during kharif in order to conserve moisture. A large propor-
tion of wheat cultivation follows this pattern. Of the acreage devoted to
cereals and pulses about 65% is planted in kharif season.
14.       Area, yields and production for the major crops of Madhya Pradesh
during kharif and rabi season in 1974/75 were as follows:
Total
Area             Yield   Production
('000 ha)         (kg/ha)  ('000 tons)
Kharif       Rabi
Rice                             4,526          -          565      2,421
Wheat                              -          2,788        880      2,351
Sorghum                          2,083           22       893       1,871
Lesser Millets                   1,352          -          189        254
Maize                              657          -          813        527
Pearl Millet                       181          -          492         89
Barley                             -            211        961        203
Pulses                           1,584        2,868        502      2,233
Groundnut                          448          -          668        299
Cotton /a                          612          -         361         401
/a   Lint.
15.       In order to resolve crop related problems and increase agricultural
production, research will have to be directed toward:
(a) Solving problems of soil and water conservation in heavy
soil regions receiving good rainfall and developing a
suitable technology under these conditions;
(b) Carrying out climatological studies to bring about sta-
bility in kharif crop production which depends mostly
on a well spread rainfall;
(c) Finding agronomic practices which give higher return
per unit input of fertilizers, pesticides, and irrigation,
with a view to reducing the cost of cultivation;
(d) Evolving crop varieties for low and medium fertilizer
inputs suited to farmers with poor economic conditions
and resources;
(e) Evolving agronomic practices which will help increase
yields under rainfed conditions;



Annex 1
Page 5
(f) Finding crops and varieties suited for summer sowings
so as to provide a wider choice to the farmer for mul-
tiple cropping;
(g) Improving the productivity of Uthera crop of paddy;
(h) Evolving crop varieties suited for early planting
under rabi conditions to utilize soil moisture
(under rainfed conditions) and for January-February
planting after cotton harvest when grown under
irrigated conditions;
(i) Assessing the needs of different tribal areas of the
State and developing a strategy for agriculture
development;
(j) Developing water management techniques and multiple
cropping in Paddy areas; and
(k)  Identifying reasons for low crop yields in certain
regions and in certain crops to narrow down the gap
between potential yield and actual levels attained.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
District Data 1/
NO. of     No  of Rural      No. of Agric .    -Area         Total Irrig      Paddy 2/       Wheat 2/      Jowar 2/3/   Total Area 234/  Total Area V51
DISTRICTS                Villages   Households         Holdings         ('000 ha)        Area           ('000  a)      ('000 ha)    ('000 ha)    Under Cereals       Under Pulses                 REMARKS
__________  ( '000)  ('000)                       ('000 ha)                                                  ('000 ha)          ('000 ha)
Balaghat                  1392         177               131               327            104             222            18             1             265                 58               Paddy District assured irrigation
potential for double cropping.
Mandsaur                  1802         141               146               515             82               1            54           189             317                141               Food and cash crops like mise,
groundnut, sugarcane, opio and
wheat.
Sehore                    1087          83                52               391             19               7            94            54             161                 86               Potential district --Good ground-
water avilability--agriculture
college campu. near State Headquarters.
Bilaspur                  3622         438               446               891            112             638            26             2             719                195               Paddy district--potential for
double cropping.
Sagar                     2090         152               156               562             17              15           220            28             278                121               Potential area for wheat, pilaes
in wheat belt of M.P.
Hoshangabad               1558         119                84               531             18              10           123            35             192                108               Highly potential district--for food
and cash crops, good groundwater
availability, Commnd Area of Tawe
project.
Narsinghpur               1077          86                76               309             16              16           38             16              86                171               Pertile area with imense potantial
high groundwater availabil ity- food
and cash crops.
Chhindvara                1996         154               137               585             29              22           63             74             269                148               Agriculture on intensive lines-food.
crops and cash crops-vegetables and
spices-intensive cultivation.
Rhandwa                   1206         122                80               491             26              30           23            112             189                 80               Potential for cash crops like cotton,
groundnut and bananna food crpop like
aurahuas wheat and pulses.
Satna                     2116         150               130               432             14              74          109             17             259                 73               Paddy and wheat crop area.
Chhatarpur                1208         124               107               458             63              15           67             37             198                 76               Cultivation on intensive lines-food
crops and pulses-intensive double
cropping.
Jhabua                    1366         100                64               342             12              24            6             23             185                101               Tribal area with potential for develop-
sont of food and cash cropa farmers
response encouraging.
Ehind                      950         122               138               343             70              14           73             20             161                131               Partly covered under Comand Area Develop-)
ment Project - high potential.
Morena                     1424         141               174               393            115               3           78             27             174                111                Partly covered under Cotaand Area Develop-
ment Project - high potential.
Raisen                      249          21                63               421             65               6          137            -12             158                168                Highly potential area due to groundwater
availability   S arna Cossmand Area.
Total Districts          23,143       2,130             1,984             6,991            762           1,097        1,129            647           3,611              1,768
% of M.P.                   30%         28%               37%               33%            45%             24%          40%            31%             30%                40%
Total Madhyn Pradesh    77,090        7,740             5,299            21,184          1,700           4,526        2,788          2,105          12,119              4,452
1/ Source: Agric. otatitica, Madhya Pradesh, 1975, Directorate of Agriculture
2/ 74-75 figures
3/ Total of Kharif and Rabi
4/ Includes maize, bojra (barley), kodonkutki and other cereals
5/ Includes gram, tur, -ungooth, wrad, kulthi, tents, peas, canor, .ny-bean and other pulses



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Number and Area of Operational Holdings 1970-71
Number in Thousand
Madhya Pradesh                                                        Area in Thousand Hect.
Size of                                           NUMBER                                                    AREA
Holdings      Independent         Joint                              Independent        Joint
in Ha         Holdings       %    Holdings   %      Total    %       Holdings     %    Holdings    x    Total        %
Below 0.5      816        21.2     208       14.4   1,024   19.3       191       1.4      50       0.6     240       1.1
0.5   1.0      509        13.2     150       10.4     659   12.5                 2.6     112       1.5     477       2.3
1.0   2.0      674        17.5     217       15.1     891   16.8       988       7.1     329       4.5   1,317       6.3
2.0   3.0      461        12.0     165       11.4     626   11.8    1,142        8.2     412       5.6   1,554       7.3
3.0   4.0      314         8.1     126        8.8     440    8.3    1,090        7.8     442       6.0   1,532       7.2
4.0   5.0      247         6.4     104        7.2     351    6.6    1,102        8.0     465       6.3   1,567       7.4
5.0   10.0     540        14.0     276       19.1     816   15.4    3,832       27.8   1,952      26.6   5,784      27.3
10.0  20.0     232         6.0     146       10.1     378    7.1    3,131       22.6   1,988      27.1   5,120      21.2
20.0  30.0      43         1.1      32        2.2      75    1.4    1,015        7.3     762      10.4   1,777       8.4
30.0  40.0      12         0.3      10        0.7      22    0.4       394       2.8     335       4.6      728      3.4
40.0  50.0       4         0.1       4        0.3       8    0.2       190       1.4     165       2.5      355      1.7
50.0  & above    5         0.1       4        0.3       9    0.2       414       3.0     330       4.5      743      3.5
Total M.P.   3,857       100.    1,442      100     5,299  100      13,852    100       7,342   100    21,194    100
Source: Agricultural Census 1970-71



AMIEX 1
Table3
INDIA.
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Rainfall Distribution With Rainy Days 1974-75
MADHYA PRADESH                                                                                          UNIT:m.m.
Oct.          Dec.
DISTRICT            June      Days      July      Days -  Aug.    Days    Sept.    Days    to    Days   to   Days   Total   Total
Nov.          Match         Rains    Days
Durg                79.4       5        153.4      10      267.8      12     71.7       4      33.9    3    16.5   1        924.5      35
Rajnandgaon        115.8       6        202.7      10      319.3      12     87.2        6    165.7    7    33.8   2        627.7      43
Bastar             191.4       7        164.0       9      345.9      16    132.1       8    142.7    8        8.3   1      984.4      49
DURG DN
RAIPUR DN          114.1       7        149.0       9      355.2      11     53.5       4      54.3    5    18.7   1        744.8      37
Bilaspur           121.6       5        372.2      15      433.5      13     61.8        4    105.7    5    17.4   3    1115.2         45
Raigarh             89.0       5        455.1      22      412.9      14     81.7        9     83.4    6    32.7   4    1154.8         60
SurguJa             84.0       5        373.5      19      328.2      15     89.3       7      94.9    5    23.4   2        993.3      53
BILASPUR DN
Jabalpur            82.7       3        287.2      15      241.7      16       9.2       2     42.5    4    24.3   4        687.6      44
Balaghat           110,2       5        322.6      15      477.2      17     43.9       4    217.5    8    63.4   5    1234.8          54
Chhindwara         103.2       7        242.3      16      364.2      13     63.8       6    141.7    6    72.9   6         988.1      54
Narsinghpur        158.9.      5        338.9      12      646.8      17      57.4      5      17.0    2    13.6   1    1232.6         42
Seoni              173.2       6        356.8      15      475.6     15      38.4       4    182.0    7    46.2   4    1228.9          51
Mandia             109.8       5        301.3      15      560.3      17      46,5       4     79.8    7    39.8   4    1137.0         52
JABALPUR DN
Sagar               94.3       3        431.2      13      636.7      18     54.6       4      26.1    2    16.7   3    1259.6         43
Damoh              116.5       5        266.3      14      479.7      17      -         -       -       -    10.2   2       872.7      38
Tikamgarh           32.2       3        560.0      16      289.0      13    107.1       5      34.2    2       6.4   1    1020.9       40
Chhattarpur         45.3       4        317.3      15      326.8      14      31.0       3     14.6    2    25.2   3        760.2      41
Panna               87.4       6        289.7      14      345.0      16     65.5       4      34.0    3    27.2   4        848.8      47
SAGAR DN
Rewa                71.2       4        243.6      13      275.1      13      49.8       3      5.0    1    13.5   1        658.2      35
Sidhi               88.3       6        312.5      19      249.8      13      81.3       5     42.3    3    47.3   7        821.5      53
Satna               50.6       5        351.1      19      344.4      15      97.2      4       -       -    21.4   2       864.7      45
Shahdol             92.4       4        182.1      14      316.4      15      29.7       5     46.6    2    24.1   3        691.3      43
REWA DN
Owalior             44.0       2        321.2      11      270.6      14      33.2       2     84.5    4    37.6   4        791.1      37
Shivpuri            33.6       2        315.7      11      241.0      12     41.6        3     20.0    1    18.5   3        670.4      32
Guna                40.0       2        344.4      16      312.3      13      77.3       5     41.4    3       0.8   -      824.2      39
Datia               18.3       2        316.6      12      244.8      11      33.8       3     52.0    4    12.8   1        678.3      33
GWALIOR DN
Morena               10.7      1        457.2      15      187.6      10      14.9       1    110.9    3    10.3   1        679.6      31
Bhind               11.7       1        442.5      15      276.7      11      31.8       2     96.0    4    24.0   3        882.7,  36
MORENA DN
Indore              33.3       3        195.9       8      291.0      10     55.1       6    130.8    5       1.8   -       707.9      32
Ratlao                -        --       187.0      13      341.0       9      66.5      4    187.9    6        0.2   -      732.6      32
Ujjain              15.5       1        232.9      11      452.6       9      92.9      5      82.4    4       1.8   -      878.1      30
Mandsaur             15.6       2       205.9      10      423.1      10      48.8       3    143.4    3       1.0   -      837.8      28
Dewas               49.8       4        244.6      11      460.4      13     97.9       6      91.0    5       -    -       943.7      39
Dhar                36.2       2        208.0      10      198.8      10     65.1       5      90.6    5       -    -       598.7      32
Jhabua               4.2       1        178.5       8     136.4       10     94.1       6    126.0    6        -    -      539.2      31
Khargone            23.2       2        172.3      11      201.8      16     38.7       6      86.4    5       -    -      522.4      40
Khandwa             22.5       2        234.7       8      331.1      14     75.3       5      32.4    5       -    -      746.0      34
INDORE DN
Bhopal              65.7       6        217.2      14      618.7      15     40.1       2      48.0    5      8.2   2      997.9      44
Sehore              44.2       3        577.2      25      609.4      16     90.0       6      77.4    6      8.5   1    1406.7       57
Raisen              82.5       3        290.7      13.    688.9       20     45.7       4      51.2    4    12.2   1    1171.2        45
Vidisha             54.0       3        342.8      14      469.7      14     56.8       4      44.3    2    16.8   1       984.4      38
Betul               62.0       6        287.2      15     280.4      15      74.5       5    145.5   10    25.7   2        875.3      53
Raigarh             29.7       4        309.2      15      412.9     10      48.4       3      62.3    4      0.7   -      863.2      36
Shajapur            36.8       3        213.0      12     553.9      11      83.6       4      67.6    4      0.6   -      955.5      34
BHOPAL DN
HOSHANGABAD DN      72.3       4         93.7       5      529.8     19    131.2        8      81.2    3    20.0   2       928.2      41
M.P. STATE          66.9                286.1              378.3             63.3              79.4          16.4          890.7
M.P. STATE
1973-74            61.2                482.0             445.5             228.2             73.9           10.5         1312.2
M.P. STATE
1972-73            78.6                194.2             461.9            117.6              32.7          47.3           934.0
M.P. STATE
1971-72           265.5               451.9              259.1            188.6              71.3          26.3         1282.0
Source: Commissioner of Land Records.



ANNEX 1
Table4
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Production of Cereals and Millets and Pulses
Madhya Pradesh                                                            Unit: Thousand Tone
Year    Rice  Sorghum  Pearl  Maize  Wheat  Barley  Lesser   Total Cereals & Millets    Pulses
Millet                         Millets  Kharif   Rabi   Total
1956-57   3316   1099.      90    191   1730    234         291     4968    1983    6965         1625
1957--58   2121   1405     111    188   1122       75       148     3965    1205    5170         1150
1958-59   3323   1262       85    468   1977    171         354     5508    2162    7670         1637
1959-60   3202   1156       91    307   2313    160         281     5011    2500    7511         1839
1960-61   3449   1476      115    534   1951    176         280     5834    2147    7981         1802
1961-62   3488   *878       66    434   2174    220         248     5135    2408    7543         1730
1962-63   2848   1521      135    464   2150    130         189     4671    2301    6972         1612
1963-64   3303   1327      148    602   1916    101         292     5711    2037    7748         1585
1964-65   3478   1725      141    549   1978    152         267     6210    2146    8356         1834
1965-66   1694   1312      167    478   1327    100        161      3857    1437    5294         1504
1966-67   1905   1380      182    455   1031    73          139     4108    1115    5223         1079
1967-68   3187   2080      149    671   1881    168         314     6491    2064    8555         1549
1968-69   2898   1579      115    335   1964    122         293     5288    2105    7393         1547
1969-70   3285   1391      140    393   2293    179         312     5545    2484    8029         1757
1970-71   3697   1836      120    627   2592    152         316     6174    2757    8931         1991
1971-72   3702   1244      119    484   3189    173         288     5907      375    9282        2353
1972-73   3083   1746      145    616   2285    161         270     5921    2455    8376         2255
1973-74   3647   1177       213    432   2589    163        315     5856    2716    8572         2074
1974-75   2421   1871        89    527   2351    203        254     5213    2574    7787         2233
Source: Commissioner of Land Records.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Yields of Principal Crops (statewide)l!
MADHYA PRADESH                                                                (kg/ha)
Rice                     Pearl                                                   Sugarcane      Cotton
YEARS             Half Polished   Sorghum    Millet        Maize      Wheat      Gram        Tur         (Gur)        (Kapes)    Groundnut
1965-66                427            730        855          925       577        530        520         2,371          221         446
1966-67                480            606        775          823       505        377        264         2,311          186         334
1967-68                805            830        525        1,135       737        550        651         2,549          219         831
1968-69                711            660        478          574       680        486        525         2,556          259         465
1969-70                784            605        603          685       714        552        658         2,511          254         703
1970-71                893            616        542       1,076        794        529        821         2,659          166         720
1971-72                866            806        602          822       907        682        855         2,771          289         602
1972-73                666            788        650          998       727        683        903         2,641          264         671
1973-74                849            581        976          700       809        571        568         2,668          154         480
1974-75                565            893        492          813       880        622        817         2,918          361         668
Average yields
over 10 years(R)      705            692        650          855       733        558        658         2,596          237         592
All India Average
1973-74             1,151            544        644         965      1,172        528        532         5,244           -          845
1974-75             1,061            644        540         966      1,338        567        716         5,165           _          696
F3 
1/ Source: Commissioner of Land Records                                                                                                          tn _



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING
A. Introduction
1.        While agricultural production in Madhya Pradesh, India's largest
state, has been steadily increasing and thereby maintaining annual foodgrain
surpluses, productivity levels of all major crops are low. The potential
for development of irrigation is great, but will take a long time to realize
and less than 10% of the cropped area is irrigated at present, farming being
almost completely dependent on the monsoon and its vagaries. However, a
potential exists for considerable increments in production in the short term,
but to achieve these increases, the development of appropriate technology and
an effective system for its delivery is essential. Limited technology for
increasing production is already available, and some farmers have adopted it.
Institutions carrying out research and providing agricultural extension are
contributing some to production, but in order to realize the full production
potential, they need to be reorganized, staff trained, efforts intensified
and new methods of work employed. To these ends the project is addressed.
(for details of research, see Annex 3).
2.        Two years successful experience with reorganized and intensified
agricultural extension in parts of Bhind and Morena districts (which are under
the IDA assisted Chambal Command Area Development Project), using methods
proposed by Mr. D. Benor, Agricultural Extension Consultant, prompted the
Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) to prepare a project for possible IDA
financing. Fifteen of 45 districts are to be covered under this project,
with the intent of expanding coverage in the future to the entire state.
B. Background
3.        Rural Administration.  Madhya Pradesh consists of 45 Revenue Dis-
tricts organized into 11 Divisions. All district development programs are
coordinated by a Collector, the senior government representative appointed by
GOI, and executed at the field level through 457 Development Block offices,
each headed by a Block Development Officer (BDO). Local participation is
ensured through popularly elected local Government bodies--Panchayats at
village level, Panchayat Samitis at Block level, and the Zilla Parishad at
district level--which are under the control of the Collector. Up to the end



ANNEX 2
Page 2
of 1965, extension workers at Block level were employed by Community Develop-
ment Department, the Village Level Worker (VLW) serving as a multipurpose
agent for several government departments and agenc4es. In December 1965,
GOMP, realizing the urgency for increasing agricultural production, made the
Department of Agriculture (DOA) directly responsible for some agricultural
development programs and for agricultural extension. Madhya Pradesh was among
the only states in India to do so. In spite of this administrative change, a
truly effective extension service has not developed (para 8).
The Present Extension Organization
4.        The Department of Agriculture (DOA) lies within the Ministry of
Agriculture which is headed by the Agricultural Production Commissioner. DOA
is administered by the Director of Agriculture (DA) assisted at headquarters
by an Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA), a number of Joint Directors
(JDA), and several subject matter specialists (SMS) of the rank of Deputy
Director (DDA) and Assistant Director (ASST. DA).
5.        Coordinating agricultural programs in the field are eleven JDA at
divisional level, each assisted by several specialists. Forty-five DDA head
district offices and are supported by SMS and administrative staff. DDA and
their staff provide the main executing arm for agricultural programs.
6.        At local level, each Block has one Agricultural Extension Officer
(AEO) who supervises the work of about 10 VLW. With 15-20,000 farm families
in each Block, each VLW is supposed to cover 1,500-2,000 families. In each
of the 109 Blocks covered by the Intensive Agriculture Development Program
there is double the complement of VLW and 3 AEO. Aside from increasing staff
intensity in these districts, however, the method and organization of work
has not changed. As new development programs are initiated, mainly from
centrally sponsored sources, additional staff are appointed at district and
block levels to serve the specialized needs of each program. Examples of such
schemes are vegetable and sugarcane development, and Drought Prone Areas
Project (DPAP), each of which may have its own Asst. DA, Agricultural Assis-
tants (AEO Level) and Fieldman Demonstrators (FMD). There is a large Soil
and Water Conservation Program in Madhya Pradesh, for which there is a large
staff functioning and administered independently of other staff of DOA.
Present Effectiveness of Extension
7.        Many factors contribute to the relatively low level of effectiveness
of the extension service in increasing agricultural productivity. VLW are
still required to perform varied tasks and devote much time and effort to
the coordination of input supply and farmer credit needs, and to data collec-
tion for statistical and regulatory purposes, which not only requires time,
but also cause a loss of credibility with farmers. VLW also has much report-
ing to do. Targets in various work areas are imposed, some of which are



ANNEX 2
Page 3
conflicting and generally related to fertilizer uptake, increasing areas
grown of certain crops and varieties (which may compete with each other) and
area covered by plant protection. These targets are often centrally deter-
mined and bear little relation to local conditions and priorities. Usually,
these work programs are more relevant to a small number of farmers, often the
more advanced ones. The number of farm families each VLW is expected to visit
is large, and there is no systematic plan by which he should communicate with
them. As a consequence, much of the work of the VLW is not in the fields but
in the village. Supervision by AEO is not intensive, and much time is spent
in data gathering and reporting. Little support is given by SMS, each being
concerned to see his program executed. Furthermore, insufficient attention is
given to the training of extension personnel once in service, even though
their initial training and selection had been satisfactorily carried out. In
general, the present extension system is heavily program- and target-oriented,
rather than being directed to the farmer himself.
8.        The past concentration of research and extension policy makers on
high cost inputs and on sophisticated technology (mainly appropriate to irri-
gated areas), was also an important factor limiting the effectiveness of
extension programs. The goal of high production and income was to be
achieved by the farmer instantly, through the adoption of an entire tech-
nology package, rather than progressing, step by step, from present
production levels. Thus, given the present level of resource and knowledge
constraints, the farmer, operating in rainfed areas, had but few relevant
messages delivered to him.
9.        Compounding these shortcomings, are factors inherent in Madhya
Pradesh and its state of development: large areas with poor communication;
a large tribal population living in difficult terrain; heavy dependency on
a short, erratic monsoon season; poorly developed irrigation; and vast areas
of unproductive soils, with serious cultivation problems. In addition, DOA
is forced to operate under budgetary constraints; transportation facilities
are extremely poor and much of rural housing for staff is below minimum
standard. All these factors place a heavy strain on staff and act as disin-
centives to their work. All considered, past achievements of the agricultural
sector of Madhya Pradesh are appreciable and only serve to underscore the
potential if some of the constraints are removed as a result of the project.
C. Intensive Agricultural Extension
10.       Agricultural extension would be reorganized and strengthened under
the project in 15 1/ of the 45 districts of Madhya Pradesh and based upon
experience gained in the Chambal Command Area. A well-trained, highly moti-
vated, and technically competent organization would be developed, making
optimal use of existing and additional staff. The organization would be
provided with the means to reach the majority of farmers with relevant and
1/   One district, Bilaspur, because of its large size would be split into
two for project purposes.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
practical technical guidance aimed at increasing production and income. All
staff engaged on special agricultural programs and schemes would be incor-
porated into the new extension organization.
11.       Because of the vast size of Madhya Pradesh and its limited finan-
cial resources, it is proposed that the project would initially involve 15
administrative (16 project) districts, 5 to be covered in the first project
year and the remaining 10 in the second year. At some time in the future, and
as a result of experience gained in implementation of this project, intensified
agricultural extension would be brought to the remaining 30 districts.
Initial districts were selected as having good potential for development and
representative of various agro-climatic zones and cropping patterns found
throughout the state, besides covering the main irrigated areas.
12.       The project would provide for:
(a) Reorganization of all existing extension staff and those
engaged on special schemes into a single line of command,
from the Director of Agriculture to the VLW and creation
of a special organization at Block level to handle input
supply and farmer credit needs, and to carry out regula-
tory functions of DOA.
(b) Establishment of one additional district office and 50
subdivisional offices, with supporting supervisory and
professional staff.
(c) Increases in field level staff to provide a ratio of I VLW:
600 farming families and 1 AEO: 6 VLW.
(d) Introduction of regular and systematic farm and village
visits to provide farmers with advice on farming practices
best suited to their specific conditions:
(e) Frequent and continuous training of all staff.
(f) Strengthening of gram sevak (VLW) training centers.
(g) Facilities and equipment to support extension and training
programs.
(h) Staff and facilities for adaptive field trials and demon-
strations.
(i) Vehicles and travel allowances to ensure greater mobility
of all staff.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(j) Offices and housing for field staff; and
(k) Coordination between research and extension services to
enable effective development and transfer of proven and
suitably adapted technology.
13.       Reorganization and Strengthening of Staff.  The extension method-
ology proposed is based on systematic and regular visits by full-time agricul-
tural extension workers (VLW) to farmers' fields, combined with regular and
frequent training of VLW. Strong technical guidance and supervision is also
required. Staffing patterns would be determined by the number of farm families
that can effectively be covered by each VLW; the number of VLW that can be
supervised by one AEO; and the number of AEO and VLW which can be effectively
supervised and trained by a supervisor with a small technical support team.
14.       Given the conditions of population density and present communications
in Madhya Pradesh, an average ratio of one VLW to 600 active farm families is
recommended. Based on an estimated 2.1 M families operating farms in the proj-
ect area, about 3,500 VLW would be needed and given a ratio of 1 AEO: 6 VLW,
580 AEO would be required. To ensure effective supervision, training and tech-
nical support of VLW and AEO, 50 subdivisional offices would be established,
each headed by a Subdivisional Extension Officer (SDEO) and staffed by one
Training Officer (TO), one Agronomy and one Plant Protection SMS. This team
would thus be responsible for the work and training of some 10-12 AEO and 70-80
VLW and covering an area of about 3 Development Blocks. Because of its size
and to ensure good management, Bilaspur District would be divided into two
project districts, thus making a total of 16 project districts.
15.       To be fully effective, extension staff should not be involved in
coordinating input supplies and credit requirements, nor in the normal admin-
istrative and regulatory duties of the Department of Agriculture. To handle
these tasks, a separate unit consisting of one senior AEO and 3 VLW would be
located in each Block and linked directly with the District Agricultural
Office.
16.       The New Extension Methodology.  Under the proposed agricultural
extension system, an intensive and regular program would be introduced. The
estimated 2.1 M project farm families would be divided into about 3,500 units
of 400-800 families to which one VLW would be allocated. Each unit would be
further divided into 8 groups or hars of 50-100 farm families each. Each of
these hars would be visited by the VLW, on a fixed day of the week, once every
two weeks. Thus the VLW would cover 4 groups in one week and 4 groups the
next. In irrigated areas, there may be need to organize weekly farm visits,
and in this case, the number of farmers covered by one VLW would not exceed
500; in such areas farmers would be divided into 4 hars of about 125 farmers,
again each to be visited on a fixed day in the week. VLW would spend the full
day with the scheduled har; during the morning hours would visit their fields
and, in the afternoon, hold an open meeting in the village at a predetermined
time or meet farmers in their homes, hold discussions, etc. One of the four
remaining working days each fortnight would be devoted to in-service training,



ANNEX 2
Page 6
where VLW learn recommended practices to be given to farmers during the
following fortnight, and where VLW have an opportunity to bring farmers'
problems to the attention of trainers (para 28). During the three remaining
days VLW would supervise field trials, arrange special extension activities,
make up visits missed because of illness or holidays and complete office work.
All VLW would maintain a chart showing days for visiting each har, as well as
the time and place of the group meeting. His Atipervisor, the AEO, would keep
such charts for all VLW supervised by him. A typical timetable for a VLW is
shown below:
MON  TUE  WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN    MON  TUE  WED  THU  FRI  SAT  SUN
EXT                               EXT  EXT
1    2    3    4   TRA  VIS   H        5    6    7    8   VIS VIS    H
1 - 8 = Farmers Groups visited
TRA    = Training once a fortnight.
EXT    = Extra visits for checking field trials, office work,
VIS      make up visits due to holidays, illness, etc.
H      = Holiday.
17.       It is not possible, nor effective to attempt to reach all farmers
in direct extension work in the field. Many are part-time others not accus-
tomed to contacts with outside agencies, and yet others are best influ-
enced by neighbors or relatives. Under the guidance of supervisors and
in consultation with the Panchayat and farmers themselves, VLW would select 10
contact farmers from each har. Contact farmers could be from all levels of
village society, including sharecroppers, and would be selected for their
potential influence and willingness to collaborate with extension in following
recommendations. Changes in contact farmers could be made, especially
between seasons, if shown to be ineffective or if they so desired. VLW,
during field visits, would make special efforts to reach at least all contact
farmers' fields, and they, in turn, would share the responsibility of organiz-
ing and attending afternoon meetings or any other village group activities.
Their fields could be used as demonstration plots and for carrying out field
trials.
18.       As extension efforts would be concentrated on selected farmers, so
also would VLW concentrate on the most important crops, focussing mainly on
those practices which bring the best economic results while making optimum use
of available resources. Initially, concentration would be on improving agri-
cultural practices and would include better land and seed bed preparation, im-
proved nursery maintenance, use of good seed, seed treatments, timely operations
such as weeding and proper spacing of plants, etc. Thus stress would be on
improved management practices rather than on increased use of purchased inputs
(such as fertilizer). In adopting better practices farmers face little risk,



ANNEX 2
Page 7
but will be required to work harder. Since most small farmers have surplus
labor but little cash this fits their financial status well. Finally, farmers
often cannot get full benefit from purchased inputs or more costly investments
(such as tubewells) until their farming practices have improved.
19.       Cultural practices requiring basic changes would often first be re-
commended for adoption on only a part of the land, and thus allow results to
be compared with traditional ones. Once farmers' yields and incomes increase
substantially so will confidence in the VLW grow and make farmers more re-
ceptive to further advice. Simple improvements in cultural practices can be
introduced into an extension service quickly and without requiring an elaborate,
time-consuming screening and trial process. Thus the extension service can
rapidly make that initial impact which will ensure its continued success.
Farmers, once convinced they are capable, with the help of the extension
workers, of increasing production and income by improved practices with
their traditional crops and cropping patterns, will be willing to adopt more
expensive (e.g. fertilizer, insecticides) and more sophisticated (e.g. new
varieties and crops) recommendations. Even then, economic considerations
will continue to be emphasized.
20.       Organization and Technical Support.  Each of 580 AEO would supervise
6 VLW and, at least once every two weeks, participate in part of VLW programs
of visits to farmers, as following such a pattern would enable him to reach
every farmers' group at least twice each season. He would check that VLW
visits and meetings were being carried out on schedule and would assist both
VLW and farmers in technical matters. He would also assist VLW in carrying
out demonstrations and simple trials. This close ongoing relationship between
AEO and VLW should relieve the latter of the need for formal reporting. He is
expected, however, to keep a dairy to be scrutinized and signed by any super-
vising officer visiting him.
21.       The AEO's supervisors, having access to VLW and AEO visit schedules,
would be able quickly and easily, by random check, to find out whether visits
are being made as planned, not only by making surprise visits to areas in
which VLW and AEO are scheduled on particular days, but also by questioning
farmers about visit days to their villages, names of the VLW and AEO, and
messages learned, etc. Experience elsewhere in India has shown that, once
farmers become aware of the fixed visit schedule, they themselves become
effective monitors by complaining if visits are not made regularly and in
a satisfactory manner.
22.       To ensure a continuous flow of timely, locally proven and adapted
farm recommendations, and adequate guidance, back-stopping and training of VLW
and AEO, it would be necessary to greatly strengthen technical support staff.
The establishment of subdivisional offices (para 15) would provide for such
support. In addition to the SDEO, one TO and two SMS (one specializing in
field crops and the other in plant protection) would be posted to each sub-
division. Thus two SMS would support about 70-80 VLW. They would spend much



ANNEX 2
Page 8
of their time on field visits with AEO and VLW, helping them solve technical
problems and conducting supervising field trials. Each SMS would also spend
one to two days a week in training sessions. Thus even with two SMS per
subdivision, the time spent with each VLW would be small. SMS would play a
central role in developing local recommendations and in passing them on to AEO
and VLW at training sessions (para 27-34) and would form the vital link
between research and extension. The TO would be responsible for the training
program at the subdivisional level, coordinating participation of the SDEO,
SMS and researchers in training activities.
23.       As it is not possible to provide more than minimum technical support
at subdivisional level, additional support would be provided at each of the
16 project districts in specialized fields, such as water management, farm
implements, entomology, plant pathology and tribal sociology. In addition,
there would be need for a research agronomist to carry out and supervise
trials on existing government-owned seed farms and on farmers' fields (paras
44-46), and for him to be closely connected with the extension program. The
project would therefore provide for at least four specialists (areas of
specialization dependent on local needs) and one research agronomist in each
district.
24.       Staffing, Salaries and Incentives.  Much of the professional staff
required under the project is presently working in DOA. The numbers of
existing professional staff, total project requirements and additional staff
that need to be recruited are summarized below (for detailed staff require-
ments see Annex 6 Table 2):
Project Staff Requirements
Additional No.
Post                      Total No. Required    No. Existing       Needed
VLW                           3530(+420) a/      2280(+420) a/      1250
AEO                            590(+140) b/       285(+140) b/       305
SMS & TO (SD Level)            150                 65                 85
SDEO                            50                 25                 25
Specialists (Dist. Level)       80                 27                 53
MYDA, (Dist & Hqtrs.)           19 c/              15                   4
ADA c/                           1                  -                  1
a/   Three VLW per block for input and credit guidance and coordination works
(para 16).
b/   One AEO per block for input and credit coordination (para 16).
c/   One ADA and three DDA to head the project (Chapter V, para 5.02).
Assurance has been given that suitably qualified persons can be found for all
positions. However, there is need for quick selection and recruitment pro-
cedures coupled with immediate training, especially for SMS and specialists
who would have a key role in training and supporting other field staff re-
quired at the start of the project. Furthermore, once trained, having gained



ANNEX 2
Page 9
some experience, and becoming truly specialized in their respective fields,
ways should be sought to enable them to advance within their professional and
speciality areas.
25.       Extension work as required under the project, would be carried
out under difficult conditions. Experience in similar projects has shown that
the entire staff would have to work much harder than in the past. Provision
of some housing, motorcycles and bicycles (para 48) would provide incentive to
field staff. To open an avenue for advancement of VLW and AEO, funds would be
provided under the project to enable a number of VLW and AEO, who have achieved
outstanding performance in the field, to study at the Agricultural University
in order to obtain either degree level or graduate training and thus qualify
for subsequent promotion. Individuals given these scholarships would be bonded
to the Directorate of Agriculture for a period of four years after completion
of training. As has been done in the past, some exceptionally capable VLW
would be promoted on the job to AEO, and similarly, some AEO would be promoted
to the position of SMS, after receiving appropriate training. Total project
staff requirements would be about 1,250 VLW, 300 AEO and 175 higher level
professional staff to be recruited over a two year period. Of this additional
staff, about 250 VLW, 150 AEO and 35 professionals would be needed during the
first project year. Since the fortnightly training of VLW and AEO is essential
from the start of the intensive extension program, district level specialists
would have to aid in this training until all subdivisional SMS have been
appointed.
26.       In-Service Training.  The proposed intensive extension approach is
based primarily on a visit to each of 8 farmers' groups one day every two
weeks by their VLW, who, in turn, receives one day training every two weeks.
The entire system, including that of adaptive research is geared to support
this rigid schedule; so that the VLW receives timely, relevant and valuable
messages for his farmers, and that he is able to deliver them effectively.
The system must moreover be equipped to adapt itself and give answers to
problems as they arise. It is mainly through in-service training that these
goals would be achieved.
(a) VLW TraininR
27.       The basic training unit would be the Block, with its 20-30 extension
VLW and 3 input VLW. They would meet on a regular day, Friday or Saturday,
once in two weeks, together with their AEO, and receive instruction from Sub-
divisional staff (SDEO, TO and SMS), supported, if needed by district staff
and research workers. At least every other training session should be held
where there are means for practical application of lessons taught--a seed farm,
an experiment station, or a training center. With 3-4 Blocks to a Subdivision,
the entire subdivisional team would devote 6-8 days in each four-week period to
training of VLW and AEO.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
28.       Training would be practically oriented and cover those farm oper-
ations most likely to arise over the next two-week period. Time would be
allowed for VLW to actually carry out field operations. Subjects and practices
taught would be of immediate importance to farmers. At these training sessions
VLW would have a chance to raise and discuss problems which they had encountered
during the preceding weeks. BDO, representatives of cooperatives, banks, and
agro-service centers, irrigation engineers and all other staff participating
in agricultural activities would be invited to attend these sessions to ensure
coordination of related activities. Experience elsewhere has shown that these
fortnightly training sessions assist greatly in inter-departmental coordination.
29.       Once in every three months a two-day training session would be held
for all VLW of a subdivision at which, besides reviewing overall project pro-
gress, they would have the opportunity of being exposed directly to research
staff and district specialists of various disciplines. Such meetings are
especially important in building morale, and would place emphasis on extension
methodology and organization.
30.       Prior to each of the two main agricultural seasons, rabi and kharif,
VLW would receive a 4-5 day course covering the main crops grown during the
season and the practices recommended for them. Also, one special topic would
be included, such as water management new methods in plant protection, or field
trial methodology. Although difficult to organize, these courses would be held
at district level, for about 250 VLW and AEO at a time using the facilities
of training centers, colleges or schools located within the district.   Train-
ing would be orientated toward the theoretical, giving the background needed
for a better understanding and broader overview of the entire cropping season
to come. Representatives from State Headquarters of DOA and from the project
directorate would attend, as would divisional JDA and several research workers
from regional stations. These courses would initiate the extension campaign
for the coming season.
31.       (b)  AEO and Senior Staff Training.  AEO would attend all training
sessions of their VLW at Block, Subdivision and District level (para 27-30).
At the fortnightly sessions held at Block level, they would be expected to
play an active role, helping SMS and TO with the training. In time, as they
gain experience, they would be expected to train VLW themselves once every
four weeks, thus taking the load off subdivisional staff.
32.       Once every four weeks the district DDA would hold a 2-day meeting
for his staff together with Subdivisional SDEO, SMS and TO and including the
AEO responsible for input supply and at least one AEO from each of the dis-
trict blocks. The trainers would be research workers from the regional
stations, district specialists and occasionally subdivisional SMS themselves.
These meetings would be held, like the VLW training meetings, on regular pre-
determined days, usually in the middle of the week. They would, in fact,
become organizational and professional seminars for district staff, in which
progress would be reviewed and the coming four-week program planned and pre-
pared. The first day would be devoted mainly to technical subjects--lectures,



ANNEX 2
Page 11
discussions, review of research and field trials, determining recommendations
and trying to solve problems which have arisen. During at least part of the
second day, the staff from each subdivision would work separately, planning
in detail the coming month's program of work. These working meetings would
form the most vital link between research and extension, and between field
and headquarters. As at block meetings, all those from agencies involved in
agricultural development work at the district level would be encouraged to
participate.
33.       AEO and all subdivisional staff would participate with VLW in the
subdivisional tri-monthly sessions. Since the subdivision is the basic
extension unit, these meetings have special importance for ensuring exten-
sion methodology and organization; senior staff should therefore utilize these
occasions for improving extension work.
34.       Each agro-climatic zone (on divisional basis) would hold prior to
each crop season a 3-4 day seminar for staff of the rank of SMS, TO and above.
These seminars would be so timed that they would enable a summary of research
results to be discussed, and at the same time finalize crop recommendations
and adaptive research plans. The seminars would be held at regional research
stations, and would thus serve as a working session of the Regional Planning
Committee. Members of the Central Planning Committee would join the seminar
on its last day to review and sanction plans. District courses for VLW and
AEO (para 30) would be planned and carried out following these intensive
seminars.
35.       Special training opportunities would be provided for staff at all
levels, in addition to the regular on-going activities. Short courses, rang-
ing from one to several weeks duration, would be organized at the JNAU and
its 5 campuses and at research stations and substations, and would cover a
variety of subjects and crops. An extension training specialist would be
appointed at each of the colleges to organize and coordinate the courses.
Courses for VLW would be held at gram sevak training centers. The Project
Directorate would plan overall training needs; division JDA and district DDA
would propose specific courses and would recommend candidates for participa-
tion. Examples of such courses would be: "Economic Use of Fertilizers," for
VLW, duration 2 weeks; "Making Local Farm Implements More Effective," for
subdivisional agronomists, duration one week; "Paddy Nurseries," for AEO,
duration 10 days; "Insect Control in Cotton," for plant protection SMS from
cotton growing subdivision, duration 4 weeks. Some specialized courses can be
organized to better advantage on an all-India basis, utilizing the best
institutions in the country. It is expected that the Commissioner for Exten-
sion in GOI would plan and coordinate such training.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
36.       The proposed training program is presented below in summary form.
Proposed In-Service Training Program
Trainees                                     Training Sessions
VLW:                    - twice a year, a pre-season course at district
for 4-5 days.
- once in 3 months at subdivision for 2 days.
- every 2 weeks at block level for 1 day.
AEO:                    - twice a year, a pre-season course with VLW as
above.
- once in 3 months at subdivision with VLW as
above.
- once in 4 weeks at district for 2 days to pre-
pare for coming month.
- special short courses.
Subdivision and        - twice a year a pre-season seminar at division
District Staff:           for 3-4 days.
- once in 4 weeks with AEO as above.
- special short courses.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Thus the following training activities would be scheduled:
No. Part.
Where Held                                           Per
The Activity and Number   Frequency  Duration  Participants  Activity Trainers
Pre-season   Division      2 x year   3-4 days  SDEO,SMS,TO        50    JDA,
5                                                      Researchers,
Specialists
Pre-season   District      2 x year   4-5 days  VLW,AEO           280    DDA,SMS,
16                                                      Specialists,
Researchers
Tri-monthly  Subdivision  4 x year   2 days    VLW,AEO             90    SDEO,SMS
Monthly Pre- District      I x 4 wks  2 days    AEO,SMS,TO,        35    DDA,Specs.
paration       16                              SDEO                    Researchers
Ongoing      Block         1 x 2 wks  1 day      VLW            20-30    SMS,AEO
Special      State as      as needed  6-30       AEO & above   20-30    University
Courses     needed                  days                               Staff
Special      All India    as needed  1/2-3       SMS & above      as    Institutions
Training   as needed                 mons                     needed  Staff
Preservice and Induction Training
37.       VLW Gramsevak Training Centers.  Five of the six Gramsevak
training centers of Madhya Pradesh are located in the project area. They
presently offer a 1-1/2 year course for matriculates (10th graders) in
integrated agriculture, preparing youth with a rural background for work
as VLW, farm demonstrators, etc. They also offer a refresher course of
5-1/2 months for staff who have been in service for ten years or more.
Practically all VLW employed are graduates of these centers. The combined
capacity of the five centers is close to 800.
38.       It is envisaged that these gramsevak training centers would con-
tinue to train VLW needed for the project. However, to be effective in
meeting the needs of the intensive extension program, their facilities would
have to be improved. Many of the buildings are run-down and equipment ob-
solete. Transportation is poor. The project would provide for building
and dormitory renovation, some new equipment, furniture, additional class-
rooms, and a minibus for each center. Since in-service training would be
greatly strengthened, the basic course could probably be shortened to one
year, of which nine months would be at the center and three months gaining



ANNEX 2
Page 14
practical field experience. The refresher course would be discontinued, and
in its place short courses of the nature described above (para 35) would be
provided. The centers wold thus be able to produce some 500-600 new VLW a
year (some space must be retained for farmers' courses), and also provide
facilities during 3 months a year for short courses. Existing staff needs
no strengthening, since teaching duties would be shared by SMS of the ex-
tension staff. The requirements of project districts call for 1,250 new VLW
in two years. Taking into account that some of them would be recruited from
other posts, the centers would be able to supply project needs, as well as
future needs for VLW as intensive extension spreads throughout the entire state.
39.       AEO and Other Staff.  There is no shortage of college graduates and
agricultural colleges are capable of a much higher throughput than at present.
Post-graduates, to fill specialist posts, are also available from within and
outside Madhya Pradesh. The problem is one of proper selection and appropriate
additional training. Special efforts would have to be made at the start of the
project to upgrade AEO to fill the new posts of SMS and SDEO through intensive
training programs. The project directorate, together with the university, would
plan courses of several weeks' duration for the entire professional staff, prior
to.the start of intensified extension work in the field. Once work is started,
the regular training pattern would be employed (Para 31-36).
40.       Orientation Training.  The entire extension staff, at all levels,
would undergo orientation training so that the new organization and metho-
dology can be fully understood and effectively implemented.
41.       Equipment and Facilities Supporting Extension and Training.  Equip-
ment, some staff, and operating costs would be provided to allow for prepara-
tion of publications, audio-visual aids, photographic work and demonstration
materials needed for effective extension work with farmers. Each district
would have a letter press and photographic facilities. At each sub-division
there would be a cyclo-styling machine, a slide projector, and other training
aids. Materials and equipment needed by AEO and VLW in their ongoing training
and extension work, such as diaries, flip charts and blackboards, would also be
provided.
42.       Since heavy emphasis is to be placed on the ongoing training of all
field staff, funds would be provided for incremental operating costs involved,
and would cover the preparation of materials and aids for training sessions,
honoraria for outside lecturers and transporting extension workers on field
visits.
43.       A fully equipped cinema van with film projector, generator, micro-
phone, screen, public address unit, taperecorder, plant protection equipment,
etc. would be provided for each of the 16 project districts. This van would
be utilized for presenting film and slide shows, demonstrations, assisting at
group meetings in villages, and for special extension campaigns (particularly
plant protection). The information and training specialist at the district
would be responsible for the effective utilization of the van, as well as for
preparing publications and other training material.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
44.       Demonstrations and Field Trials.  Field demonstrations in India's
extension work have, in the past, been widely used but with varying results.
It is therefore proposed not to place special emphasis on a program of field
demonstrations, but rather to utilize the demonstration effect of fields of
contact farmers, where improved practices would be employed, new varieties
used, and cropping patterns changed. Simple field trials, to be carried out
on both seed farms and farmers' fields would also serve as demonstrations.
This would form part of the ongoing work of VLW, AEO and SMS. Thus all
demonstrations, "minikit" trials and other field trials presently carried out
under various schemes (and which often cause confusion to extension field
staff and cultivators alike) would be integrated within the project into one
coordinated program.
45.       A broad range of simple experiments and field trials would be
carried out on about 8 ha of each of 26 government seed farms located through-
out the project area. Together with trials on farmers' field, they would form
an integrated system for the final proving of recommendations coming from
regional stations and sub-stations. A research agronomist would be seconded
to each of the 16 project districts from the University, in order to guide and
supervise district programs. He would be responsible directly to district DDA
and, working closely with SMS and other technical field staff, would form an
all important link between research and extension. Recommendations would be
tried out on a large enough scale before being delivered to the farmers to
ensure their validity under local conditions and through this work extension
workers would receive practical training and gain confidence in the validity
of recommendations to be made to farmers. Research staff from central and
regional research stations, through association with district adaptive re-
search programs, would be in close contact with farmers' actual problems and
with field level extension staff. Help in analyzing and compiling field trial
results would come from research stations and from district evaluation units.
46.       An assistant, of the rank of AEO, would be placed on each of the 26
seed farms. With this help, existing staff would be sufficient to carry out
the work on field trials. Incremental operating costs and some basic equip-
ment for crop cutting, planting and threshing would be provided under the
project.
47.       Soil-Testing Laboratories.  Soil Testing laboratories supply extremely
useful information in formulating recommendations for fertilizer use. Even
when only a small percentage of plots can be sampled for nutrient deficiencies,
if these are well-distributed and carefully analyzed, they can have widespread
application. Eight project districts already have soil-testing facilities.
The project would provide four stationary and three mobile laboratories in the
remaining seven districts. Details of staff facilities, equipment and costs
are in Annex 6.
48.       Transportation and Mobility.  A key feature of the new extension
methodology is a requirement that all staff spend most of their time in the
field. Each week VLW would spend four days on pre-planned visits and a fifth
day on field trials, demonstrations and special duties. AEO would spend four
days a week with VLW. SMS would be expected to devote two days to field



ANNEX 2
Page 16
visits and two days to field trials and research visits each week. DDA and
SDEO would spend at least three days a week in the field. Transportation is
thus crucial to the success of the program, and is presently a serious con-
straint. The project would provide 1 car at headquarters; 1 minibus and 1
mobile cinema van (all diesel) for each district; 1 diesel 4-wheel drive
vehicles at each sub-division; a motorcycle for each AEO; and a bicycle for
all new VLW. In addition each of 5 gramsevak training centers would have a
4-wheel drive vehicle and a minibus. Total numbers of vehicles provided for
extension and training staff under the project is as follows:
1 car
76 4-wheel drive diesel vehicles
16 minibus (diesel)
16 cinema vans
729 motorcycles
1500 bicycles
Since similar vehicles are in operation in Madhya Pradesh and within the DOA,
their operation and maintenance should not pose a problem.
49.       Incremental vehicle operating and maintenance costs for the project
period (5 years) are provided for, based on present average mileage travelled
for cars, 4-wheel drive vehicles, and minibuses and vans. Basic travel allow-
ance for all incremental staff is provided for and is included in the salary
calculation. However, since motorcycles and bicycles would be bought by AEO
and VLW on credit, a special travel allowance (based on mileage) of sufficient
magnitude to provide an incentive to ensure purchase of the vehicles must be
provided. This is important in the case of motorcycles in particular. GOMP
is presently reviewing its travel allowance policies.
50.       Offices and Staff Housing.  Efficient management and administration
of the extension service requires some office facilities in districts as well
as in headquarters. Existing division and district offices, many of which are
rented, are considered adequate, though some additional equipment and incremen-
tal operating costs would be provided (the functions of district offices would
increase considerably). Two new district offices would be established in
Bilaspur district and in Barna Command Area. Fifty new sub-divisions would
be established. An office cum-training hall would be constructed in each
subdivision. The project would provide each of these offices with equipment
and furniture, support staff and ensure operating costs over the project
period.
51.       It is essential under the new extension system that field staff
live where they carry out their work. In Madhya Pradesh, as in most of
rural India, present housing conditions and availability are poor. There
are great difficulties, due to lack of housing, in posting and keeping quality
staff in these rural areas. The project therefore provides for what should
be considered minimum housing needs--for less than 20% of the staff; 700
houses for VLW of very simple, village style construction and 100 houses cum
offices for AEO. Deductions would be made from salaries in lieu of rent.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Background
11.       Agricultural Research Institutions.  For the past 11 years, agricul-
tural research in Madhya Pradesh has been the responsibility of the Jawaharlal
Nehru Agriculture University (JNAU) which was inaugurated in October 1964,
with headquarters at Jabalpur. Six agricultural colleges in different regions
of the state are under the control of the University and are located at
Jabalpur, Raipur, Indore, Gwalior, Rewa and Sehore. There are also two
veterinary colleges at Jabalpur and Mhow and one agricultural engineering
college located at Jabalpur. Each of these institutions is involved in
teaching, research and extension. For location see Map.
2.        The major agricultural college is located at Jabalpur and all
departments offer Masters degrees whereas only 2-3 departments at the other
colleges offer M. Sc. degrees. The Doctoral degree (Ph.D.) is only awarded
by the Departments of Agronomy, Soil Science and Plant Breeding at Jabalpur.
The University has a total of 26 Professors, 132 Associate Professors, and
382 Lecturers and Research Assistants of whom 113 have Ph.D degrees.
3.        Research at the University is under a Director of Research who
reports to the Vice Chancellor. He is responsible for coordination and
evaluation of research and administrative direction of research stations.
Since Madhya Pradesh is the largest state in India, it requires extensive
travel by Director of Research to various stations in order to remain cur-
rent with research activities.   Research programs are formulated at each
college with Heads of Departments and the Director of Research.
4.        Major discussions of research results occur twice a year at the
University at Jabalpur prior to Kharif and Rabi growing seasons. These
are usually three day meetings in which the latest package of practices is
presented and based on recent research findings. Meetings are usually
attended by the Directors of Agriculture and Extension as well as other
faculty staff. There are also divisional workshops held biannually.
5.        Good relationships exist between University researchers and Depart-
ment of Agriculture extension staff. Nevertheless, the research effort
of the University appears too centralized, with most extension workers having
to look to Jabalpur for answers, which are often insufficiently oriented
to meet the needs of the particular agroclimatic regions of the state.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        Research Stations.  Each of the six colleges of JNAU has a research
station adjacent to it. There are also 16 substations associated with main
stations. Most of these 16 substations have between 2 and 4 professional
staff, but the station at Powarkheda has 13 and the one at Chindwara 12
professionals since they are the main state research centers for wheat,
maize and potatoes. For location see Map.
7.        Of the six college research stations the largest and most active
is the one at Jabalpur. It has a 1,100-acre farm of which almost half is
irrigated. It is well equipped and has an active research staff conducting
meaningful research in improved crop varieties, cultivation practices, land
utilization (especially of flat land flooded during Kharif), mixed farming
systems including livestock and fisheries, improved farm implements and pest
control measures. It has a professional staff of 133 of which a number have
teaching responsibilities. Research stations at other colleges are smaller
in size and have less staff and facilities although stations such as those
at Indore and Sehore operate effectively with limited resources available.
Professional staff involved in research at these other colleges range from 66
at Indore to 15 each at Sehore and Gwalior.
8.        Approximately half of funds for research at the University
comes from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) which finances
35 different projects/schemes. At some of the stations, it is clear that
little research would be conducted without ICAR funding. Research staff
regularly and actively participate in seminars, workshops and conferences
organized by ICAR and its associate institutions.
9.        The University has received support from international organiza-
tions and through which close ties with the University of Illinois were
established. It also has close links with U. S. Department of Agricul-
ture and there is an exchange program of material and information with
ICRISAT at Hyderabad and IRRI in Manila. An Indo-British research project
on dryland agriculture has recently started operating at Indore.
B. Research Accomplishments
10. JNAU Improved Varieties. A large number of improved varieties have
been released either by the State or the Central Variety Release Committee.
These include three each in wheat, cotton and linseed; two each in rice,
groundnut and maize and one each in soybeans, sorghum, mung, gram, pigeon
pea, sesamum, and millet. There are also a number of promising varieties
approved for pre-release multiplications and large-scale testing.
11. Cultivation Practices. Soil surveys have shown areas deficient
in zinc and sulfur which have been corrected and have produced 20% increases
in yield of wheat and rice by zinc sulfate amendments and a 33% increase in
soybean yield by sulfur applications.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
12.       Soil water management in heavy clay soils during the Kharif season
is needed since much of this area cannot grow a crop. Work done at Jabalpur
and Indore has shown that drainage and land shaping can permit crops to be
grown on raised ridges with lower areas used as water catchments or for grow-
ing rice.
13.       The addition of gypsum has been found to be beneficial in treating
alkaline soils of which over 17,000 hectares are present in the State.
14.       A detailed package of practices has also been developed for growing
wheat which can produce 3 tons/ha, using early maturing varieties, appro-
priate seed rates, irrigation and fertilization practices.
15.       Horticulture.  A package of practices has been developed for a
number of vegetable crops which include beans, eggplant, chillies, tomatoes,
potatoes and gourds. Also, three improved varieties of peas have been released
which have found much favor with farmers. Pineapples have been introduced in
Jabalpur and Bilaspur and a variety of mango was judged one of the best in the
All-India show in 1971.
16.       Pest Control.  Chemical control schedules have been prepared for
various crop pests and diseases.
17.       Dryland Agriculture Research.  Since over 90 percent of the cropped
area of Madhya Pradesh is unirrigated, the need to increase crop production in
rainfed areas is vital. Therefore, the University has worked on finding early
maturing varieties of suitable Kharif crops and has recommended two varieties
each of mung, soybean, maize, and one each for groundnut, sorghum, and cotton.
18.       Different soil preparation techniques are being evaluated to maxi-
mize soil moisture retention and fertilizer placement of nitrogen and phos-
phorous has been found to be beneficial under rainfed conditions.
19.       Mixed cropping combinations, such as sorghum and pigeon pea or
soybeans or Kharif pulses are being evaluated for increasing productivity.
A promising crop for rabi season in rainfed regions is a safflower variety
which has been found to be drought resistant.
20.       Farm Implements.  A number of promising tractor and bullock-drawn
farm implements have been developed but which require manufacture in suffi-
cient quantity (40 to 50) to test out in farmers' fields.
21.       Constraints.  Despite the accomplishments outlined above much more
effective applied and adaptive research is needed to overcome present con-
straints to increased crop production in Madhya Pradesh.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
22.       More emphasis needs to be given to applied and adaptive research
based on needs of farmers and less effort devoted to basic research.
23.       Furthermore, there is a need for more research on Kharif crops
in rainfed areas since only about 9% of the cropped area in the State is
irrigated.
24.       Major constraints preventing JNAU from improving its research
activities have been a lack of sufficient operating funds for materials,
supplies and equipment, lack of adequate facilities at a number of stations
(with the exception of Jabalpur) and insufficient research staff to take
care of the needs of the varied agroclimatic regions. In addition, teaching
responsibilities at some colleges are high and affect the time which can be
spent on research so that little is accomplished, except on schemes financed
by ICAR.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROGRAM
A. General Description
Program Goals
25.       The project would strengthen applied and adaptive agricultural
research to provide practical answers to farmers' problems so that agricul-
tural productivity, particularly of Kharif crops, is increased throughout
the project area. Efforts would focus on principal crops grown and concen-
trate on developing improved cultivation practices with early maturing, high
yielding varieties acceptable to farmers and grown under different agrocli-
matic conditions. It would pay particular attention to research on dryland
farming, soil-water management, improved utilization of lands flooded in
Kharif season, improved farm implements, and farming systems and cropping
patterns designed to increase farmers' income. Research would be conducted
on a multidisciplinary team approach with staff devoting full time to research
with only incidental teaching duties.
26.       The research effort would be decentralized by designating five of
the six college stations as Regional Research Stations located in different
agroclimatic areas of the State. Each station would have prime responsibility
for principal research on specific crops (See Table 1). In addition, seven
substations would also be supported so that all major agroclimatic variations
found in the 16 districts of the project area would be covered.
27.       Adaptive field trials would also be conducted on 26 government farms
located throughout the sixteen districts to permit larger scale evaluation
of research findings. (See Table 2).



ANNEX 3
Page 5
28.       The program would strengthen coordination between extension and
research at local, regional and state levels in order to assure ready access
to improved technology by cultivators.
29.       Program Components.  In order to achieve the goals outlined above,
the project would provide:
(a) civil works, at five regional stations and seven substations
and which would include laboratories, offices, staff quarters,
and dormitories;
(b) farm development at all research stations;
(c) equipment, furniture and vehicles;
(d) increases in professional and support staff;
(e) training fellowships; and
(f) incremental operating costs over the five year period.
Details of investment are in Tables 3-6.
B. Detailed Features
Regional and Substations
30.       As shown in Table 1, each regional station would have prime respon-
sibility for specific commodities with other stations testing findings under
the differing agroclimatic conditions. Two substations, Powarkheda and
Chhindwara, would have main research responsibility for wheat (Powarkheda) and
maize, potato and water management (Chhindwara). Research on rice is not
included at any station since the State plans to develop a semi-autonomous
Rice Research Insitute. In addition to commodity research the project would
support research on mixed farming, improved utilization of land flooded in the
Kharif season, farm implements and dryland farming. Major areas of research
would be:
(a) Cultivation Practices
Techniques which improve crop productivity would be emphasized.
These would include land preparation, time of planting in relation to rain-
fall patterns, spacing, alternative farming and cropping patterns, soil amend-
ments (organic and inorganic) and use of pesticides. Improved water manage-
ment practices and more effective utilization of rainfed areas would be
emphasized. Mixed farming practices which involve livestock and fisheries
would be evaluated to determine means of increasing farmer incomes.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(b) Varietal Improvement
Plant breeding, screening, identification and selection of varieties
useful to farmers would be continued and strengthened for factors relevant to
differing agro-climatic regions, seasons, water levels, soil types and resist-
ance to various pests and diseases.
(c) Pest and Disease Control
Studies would be strengthened on pest and disease control of the
main crops of Madhya Pradesh. The epidemiology, prophylactic measures of
control, chemical control where required, and screening for resistant and
tolerant varieties would be undertaken in joint programs involving ento-
mologists, plant pathologists and plant breeders located at stations.
(d) Farm Implements
Testing, modification and development of improved farm implements
which benefit cultivators would be an important component of the program.
Fabrication of 40-50 units of promising implements would be undertaken by
Department of Agriculture workshops so that University research staff could
evaluate them in farmers' fields.
(e) Farm Management Studies
Farm management specialists and statisticians located at each
regional research station would evalute various cultivation practices,
alternative farming systems and cropping patterns developed as a result
of the program outlined above. The economic impact of recommendations would
be further assessed in larger scale adaptive trials at seed farms (para 27).
C. Organization and Management
31.       The research program outlined above would be the responsibility
of the Director of Research, JNAU. He would also be Head of the Regional
Research Station at Jabalpur. At each of the other four regional research
stations, an Associate Director of Research would primarily be responsible
for formulating research programs that cater to the needs of cultivators of
the region.
32.       Technical programs for each station would be formulated for Kharif
and Rabi seasons in consultation with participating scientists, university
administrators and Department of Agriculture personnel.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
33.       Coordination
Coordination of agricultural research programs with agricultural
extension would be accomplished at three levels. At State level, there
would be a Central Planning Committee, headed by the Director of Agriculture
with the Director of Research, Associate Directors of Research from the four
regional stations, and the Dean of Agriculture as members and which would meet
at least biannually to formulate detailed plans for each regional station.
Research results would be presented and programs finalized for the coming
season.
34.       Prior to the Central Planning Committee, Regional Planning Committee
meetings would be held at Regional Research Stations with representatives of
research and extension in the region and including any substations of the
region. Mutual exchange of information and formulation of seasonal programs
would be made for presentation to the Central Planning Committee. In this way
the Joint Director of Agriculture for the region would look to the regional
station and its substations in his area for answers to cultivators problems
rather than to Jabalpur as has been the case in the past.
35.       At district level, biannual meetings would also be held between
extension staff, the research agronomist seconded by the University to the
District as well as research staff from stations located within the the
district. They would dicuss findings from trials located at seed farms
and cultivators fields and formulate plans for the next growing season.
36.       Research workers at regional and sub-stations would also be asso-
ciated with training session held at state, regional and district levels and
would actively participate in training of extension workers. Seven stations,
including the five regional stations, would have a 25 bed dormitory to permit
training of extension personnel, more particularly subject matter specialists,
and to foster closer working relationships between the two organizations.
37.       Collaborating Institutions
All research stations would continue close collaboration with
national research organizations, such as ICAR and on-going research programs
of insitutions in other parts of India. Collaboration with international
research institutions located in countries where information is developed and
which could be useful in promoting crop production would also be encouraged.
D. Staffing
38.       At full development the staff at the five regional research stations
would compromise 317 professionals, of which 65 would be additional staff.
Staff at the seven substations would total 101 professionals of which 49 would
be additional. (Details are at Table 6.)



ANNEX 3
Page 8
E. Fellowships and Short Term Consultants
39.       Five fellowships will be awarded annually, for periods up to six
months, to permit scientists to visit key institutions in India, to gain
information which could be useful in the development of their programs.
III. COST ESTIMATES
40.       Estimated projects costs would be Rs 41.84 M (US$4.65 M) summarized
as follows:
I.  Capital Costs                       Thousand Rupees
A.  Buildings                           8,215
B.  Equipment                           6,270
C.  Vehicles                              420
D.  Fellowships                         1,890
Subtotal              15,795
II. Operating Costs
A.  Salaries and allowances            13,219
B.  Operating Expenses                 11,825
Subtotal              25,044
Grand Total           41,839
Details of these costs are in Table 3.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
,-AIN RESEARCH CENTERS AND PRINCIPAL RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
Commodity or Program                           Research Station
Soybeans, Pulses, Vegetables,
Small Farm Implements, Mixed Farming,
Land Utilization on flooded lands in              Jabalpur
Kharif Season.
Sorghum, Cotton, Dryland Farming.                 Indore
Peorl Millet, Kharif Pulses.                      Gwalior
Smaller Millets, Linseed.                         Rewa
Sugarcane, Bengal Gram.                           Sehore
Wheat.                                            Powarkheda
Maize, Potato, Water Management.                  Chhindwara



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Location of Seed Multiplication Farms selected
for Adaptive Research Trials
S.No.  District        Location of             Principal Crops
Farms
1.     Balaghat        Kinhi                   Paddy - Arhar
Garhi                   Paddy - Kodo - Wheat - Gram
2.     Narsimhapur    Narsimhapur              Paddy - Soyabean - Wheat - Gram
3.     Chhindwara      Delakhedi               Paddy-  Soyabean - Wheat - Gram
4.     Mandsaur        Malhargarh              Maize - Jowar - G'Nut - Wheat - Gram
5.     Khandwa         Burhanpur               Jowar - Cotton - Wheat
Harsud                  Jowar - Cotton - Wheat - Gram
6.     Jhabua          Jobat                   Paddy - Maize - Urd - Wheat
Khajuri                 Maize - Jowar - Bajra - Wheat - Gram
7.     Sehore          Amlaha                  Jowar - Wheat - Gram
Rehti                   Sunflower - Soyabean - Wheat
8.     Raisen          No farm in Command Area of Barna Project
9.     Bilaspur        Khiksa                  Paddy - Wheat
Lakhanpur               Paddy - Maize
Dharampura              Paddy
Ragja                   Paddy - Maize - Millets
10.    Sagar           Bijora                  Wheat - Soyabean
11.    Satna           Reora                   Paddy - Urd - Wheat
Kharnsali               Paddy   Moong - Urd - Wheat - Gram
12.    Chhatarpur     Nowgong                  Moong - Soyabean - Wheat
Bijawar                 Paddy - Moong - Arhar - Wheat - Gram
13.    Bhind           Bhind                   Paddy - Bajre - Mustard - Wheat
Gohad                   Paddy - Bajre - Mustard - Wheat
14.    Morena         Morena                   Bajra - Urd - Wheat - Mustard - Gram
Sheopurkalan            Paddy - Moong - Urd - Wheat - Gram
15.    Hoshangabad    Babai                    Paddy - Soyabean - Moong - Wheat
Seoni - Malwa           Paddy - Cotton - Linseed - Wheat - Gram
(26 Farms)



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICIULTURAL EXTENSION AND) RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research
(Rupees Thousand)
COST/   ----__                             _-        3     4-                           - ----5 ----I-N EXCNASiO
IOT  --------      -----2----      -       -- 3----- ~~ ~~~4 ~                     -------- P4 OREIGN EXCHANGE
I. CAPITAL COSTS                     UNIT      UNIT    NO.    COST        NO.     COST          NO.      COST        NO.    COST         NO.      COST       TOTAL         COMPONENT (%)
A. BUILDINGS
Laboratories                       1      174.0      -       -        12    2,088            -       -            -      -            -       -       2,088
Glasobouses, Field Labs,
Cold Storage, Insectories 1/  1           -        -      500       -    1,950            -        -           -       -           -        -       2,450
Domitories                         1      190.0      3      570        4      760            -       -            -      -            -        -      1,330
Staff Quarters                     1       40.0    30   1,200         10      400            -       -            -       -           -       -       1,600
Sub-Total                          _        -        -   2,270         -    5,198              -     -            -       -           -       -       7,468
Physical Contingencies (107.)    -          -        -      227               520           -        -            -      -            -       -          747
TOTAL                                                -   2,497         -    5,718            -       -            -      -            -       -       8,215                     _
B. EOUIPNENT
Laboratory Equipoent               -        -        -   1,000         -    1,400            -    1,500           -      -            -       -       3,900                    80
Power Stabilizers                  -        -        -      600        -       -             -        -           -       -           -        -         600                   50
Nucleus Seed Production Equip.  -           -        -      500        -      500            -       -            -       -           -        -      1,000                    80
Photocopier and other office
equipeent                       -         -        -      100       -       100                    -           -       -           -        -         200                    50
Sub-Total                          -         -       -   2,200         -    2,000            -    1,500           -       -           -        -      5,700
Physical Contingencies (10%)    -           -        -      220        -      200            -      150           -      -            -       -          570
TOTAL                              -        -        -   2,420         -    2,200            -    1,650           -       -           -        -      6,270
C. VEHICLES
4-theel Drive & Trailer            1       60        7      420        -        -            -        -           -       -           -        -         420                   25
GRAMD TOTAL                        -        -        -   5,337              7,918            _    1,650           -       -           -        -     14,905
II. OPERATING COSTS
A. SALARIES  AND  ALtOWANCES
5 Regional Assoc. Dir. of
Research                        -         -               120.0      -      120.0          -      120.0         -     120.0         -       120.0      600
Professional Research Staff
and Assistants - Res.
Stations                        -         _        -   2,183         -    2,183            -    2,183           -   2,183           -    2,183     10,915
Nucleus Seed Production Staff   -           -        -       88.0      -       88.0          -        88.0        -       88.0        -        88.0      440
Research Agrono ists at
District Level - 16              -        -        -      252.8     -       252.8          -      252.8         -     252.8         -       252.8   1,264
Sub-Total                          -        _        _   2,643.8       -    2,643.8          -    2,643.8         -   2,643.8         -    2,643.8  13,219
B. STATION EXPENSES
Operating of Research
Stations 2/                     -         -        -   2,150         -    2,150            -    2,150           -   2,150           -    2,150    10,750                      5
Contingencies (107.)               -        -        -      215        -       215           -       215          -      215          -       215      1.075                    5
TOTAL                              -        -        -   2,365         -    2,365            -    2,365           -   2,365           _    2,365    11,825
GRAND TOTAL                        -        -        -   5,008.8       -    5,008.8          -    5,008.8         -   5,008.8         -    5,008.8  25,044
III. TRAINING COSTS
PELILWSHIPS
2/Yr. 3 Months each                1       54        _      108        -       108                   108          -      108          -       108        540
3/Yr.  6Months each                1      135        -      270        -       270           -       270          -      270          -       270      1.350
TOTAL                              -        -        -      378        -       378           _       378          -      378          -       378      1,890
IV. TOTAL RESEARCH COSTS               -         -        -  10,723.8      -   13,304.8          _    7,036.8          -   5,386.8         -    5,386.8  41,839.0                             s la
1/ Includes funds for 1 cold store (Rs 500.0), 5 glass houses (Rs 150.0), 12 field laboratories (Rs 100.0);
2/ Includes Rs 1,750.0 for cost. of district trials.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Building Requirements
Research                                                         Cold       Glass      Field      Staff
Station                          Laboratory       Dormitory      Store      House      Labs       Quarters
Jabalpur                                              1            -          -           1           -
Sehore                                 1              1            -          1          1            -
Indore                                 1              1            1          1          1            -
Gwalior                                1              1            -          1           1           -
Rewa                                   1              1            -          1          1            -
Powarkheda                             2              1            -          1          1           12
Chindwara                              1              1            -          -          1            8
Mandsaur                               1              -            -          -           1           4
Khandura                               1              -             -          -          1           4
Bilaspur                               1              -            -          -          1            4
Warasconi                              1              -             -          -          1           4
Sogar                                  1              -            -          -           1           4
Total                            12               7            1          5         12          40
m X



ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Vehicle Requirements
Four-Wheel
Research Station                     Drive Vehicle
Jabalpur                                  1
Sehore                                    1
Indore                                    1
Gwalior                                   1
Rewa                                      1
Powarkheda                                1
Mansaur                                   1



ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Existing and New Staff To Be Provided
Under Project
Assoc. Dir.  Senior         Junior        Senior
Research Station              of        Research      Research      Research    Support
Station                  Research       Staff         Staff         Assistant   Staff
Exist.  New  Exist.  New  Exist.  New  Exist. New  Exist_ __ew
Jabalpur                    1            30      5    28        9    70      1     -      9
Indore                      -      1    18       2    17        4    31      3     -      5
Rewa                        -      1      3       2     8       3    12      4     -      4
Sehore                      -      1      1       3     7       3     4      6     -      5
Gwalior                     -      1      2       5     3       5    10      7     -      6
Chhindwara                  -      -      2      1      5      -      7      3     -      4
Powarkheda                  -      -      3       3     7       2    13      3     -      4
Khandura                    -      -      -       1     2       3     -      4     -      1
Mandsaur                    -      -      -       1     3       3     -      4     -     -
Bilaspur                    -      -      -      1      3       3     -     3      --    1
Warosconi                                        1      3       3     -      3     -     1
Sogar                       -      -      -      1      1      3      -     3      -     1
Total                       1      4    59      26    87      41   147    44       -    41
1/ Figures not available.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs-
(Rs '000)
1       2        3        4        5     Total   Foreign
--   -                     -                    Exchange
EXTENSION
Capital Costs
Offices and Housing                     912   4,530  11,144        -       -      16,586      -
Equipment                             1,245   3,404       -        -       -       4,649    237
Vehicles                              2,665   5,842   1,342        -       -       9,849  2,342
Soil Testing Facilities                 510      660      -                        1,170    293
Operating Costs
Incremental Staff                     2,879  12,894  12,894  12,894  12,893   54,454          -
Office Operating Cost                   655   2,430   2,430   2,430   2,430   10,375          -
Vehicle Operating Cost                  650   2,006   2,498   2,499   2,499   10,152  1,015
Operation of Soil Testing Labs.         268      605      604      605     604    2,686       -
Total Extension                       9,784  32,371  50,912  18,428  18,426  109,921  3,887
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
Capital Costs
Gram Sevak Center                       210      315      -        -       -         525      -
Transportation, Equipment               150       25      -       -        -         175      25
Operating Costs
Training Costs                          261      410      363      274     273    1,581       -
Gram Sevak Center                        70       70       70       70      70       350      10
Total Agricultural Training            -691      820      433      344      343    2,631      35
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Capital Costs
Buildings                             2,270   5,198        -        -       -      7,468      -
Equipment                             2,200   2,000   1,500         -       -      5,700  4,320
Vehicles                                420       -        -        -       -        420    105
Fellowships                             378      378      378-    378       378    1,890      -
Operating Costs
Salaries and Allowances               2X644   2,644   2,644   2,644   2,643   13,219          -
Station Expenses                      2,150   2,150   2,150   2,150   2,150   10,750    538
Total Agricultural Research          10,062  12,370   6,672   5,172   5,171   39,457  4,963
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Capital Costs
Buildings, Office Equipment             112       96       -        -       -        208      22
and Transportation
Operating Costs
Salaries, Allowances, Offices,          261      573      573     573      574    2,554       -
Vehicles
External Project Evaluation             200      200      200     200      200    1,000
Total Monitoring and Evaluation         573      869      773     773      774    3,762       22
TOTAL (without contingencies)          21,110  46,430  38,800  24,717  24,717  155,771          -
Physical Contingencies                  1,034   2,059   1,798        528     484    5,903    472
Price Contingencies                       841   5,073   7,058   5,543   7,559   26,074  1,304
Sub-Total Contingencies                 1,875   7,132   8,856   6,071   8,043   31,977  1,776
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     22,985  53,562  47,656  30,788  32,757  187,748 10,683
1/ For details see Cost Tables 2 through 6.



INDIA
MADh-A PRADESg
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricul teral Exten; ion
COST/   ---1      -           -2-              ----3     -        ----4            -       -5-                       FOREIGN EXCHANGE
I. CAPITAL COSTS                    UNIT      UNIT    NO.   COST       NO.    COST         _NO       COST       NO,   COST         NO.      COST      TOTAL          CONPONENT
A. OFFICES AND HOUSING
(i) Offices
District Offices               1     87.0      -      -          2      174.0        -        -          -       -                    -        174.0
Sub-District Offices           1     62.0      -      -         20   1,240.0        30   1,860.0         -        _          _        -      3,100.0               -
(ii) Housing
District                       1     53.0      -      -          4      212.0        -        -          -        -          -        -        212.0               -
A.E.O. (cum Office)            1     26.0    12    312.0        54   1,404.0        34      884.0        _        _          _        _      2,600.0               -
VLW                            1     15.0   40    600.0        100   1.500.0       560   8.400.0         -                                  10.500.0               -
Sub-Total                      -      -        -    912.0        -   4,530.0         -  11,144.0         -        -          -        -     16,586.0               -
Physical Contingencies (107.)  -      -              91.2        -      453.0        -   1.114.4         -        _          _               1.658.6
TOTAL                          -      -        -  1,003.2        -      498.0        -  12,258.4         -       _           _        -     18,244.6
B. EOUIPMENT
(i) Office Equiprsent and
Furniture
District Offices    1/         1     15.0      5     75.0       11      165.0        -        -          -        -          -        -        240.0
Sub-District Offices           1     15.4    12    184.8        38      585.2                                                                  770.0                -
AEO Office                     1      0.35   48      16.8       152      53.2         -       -          -        -          -        -         70.0               0
VLW                            1      0.1   888      88.8    2,643      264.3         -       -          _        _          _        -        353.1
Headquarters                   1     22.0      1     22.0         -       -           -       -           -       -           -       -          22.0
(ii) Training Eq.ipment
District Offices 2/            1     70.0      5    350.0       11      770.0         -       -           -       _          _        -      1,120.0               10
Sub-District Offices 3/        1     25.0    12    300.0        38      950.0         -       -           -       -          -        -      1,250.0               10
AEO                            1      0.2   148      29.6      441       88.2         -       -           -       -           -       -         117.8               -
VLW                            1      0.2   888    177.6    2.643       528.6        -        -          -        -           -       -         706.2               _
Sub-Total                      -      -        -  1,244.6        -   3,404.5          -       -          -        -           -       -      4,649.1
Physical Contingencies (10%)  -        -       -    124.0         -     340.0         -       -           -       -           -       -         464.0
TOTAL                          -      -        - 1,368.6         -   3,744.5         -        -          -        -           -       -      5,113.1                -
C. VEHICLES
(i) Headquarters
Car                            1     35.0      1     35.0         -       -           -       -           -       -           -       -          35.0              25
(ii) District Level
4-Wheel Drive                  1     50.0      1     50.0         1      50.0         -       -           _       _           _       -         100.0              25
Cinema Vans                    1     75.0      5    375.0        11     825.0         -       -           -       -           -       -       1,200.0              25
Diesel  Station Wagon          1     65.0      5    325.0        11     715.0         -       -           -       -           -       -       1,040.0              25
(iii) Sub-District Level
4-Wheel Drive (1 Vehicle
with trailer)                1     50.0    12    600.0         38   1,900.0         -       -           -       -           -       -       2,500.0              25
(iv) Field Level
Motorcycles                    1       6.0   148    888.0       286   1,716.0       155     930.0         -       -           -        -      3,534.0              25
Bicycles                       1      0.4   500    200.0        600     240.0       400     160.0         -       _           _       _         600.0               5
Motorcycles (Inputs)           1       6.0    32    192.0        66     396.0        42     252.0         -                                     840.0              25
-      -       -  2,665.0         -   5,842.0         -   1,342.0         -        --                  -      9,849.0                -
D. SOIL TESTING FACILITIES
Mobile Laboratories            1    150.0      1    150.0         2     300.0         -       -           -       -           -        -        450.0              25
Soil Laboratories              1    180.0      2    360.0         2     360.0         -       -           -       -           -        -        720.0              25
TOTAL                          -      -        -    510.0         -     660.0         -       -           -       -           -       -       1,170.0                -
GRAND TOTAL                    _      _        - 5,546.8          -  15,229.5         -  13,600.4         -       _           _        -     34,376.7
SM
1/ Includes Office Furniture,  Carpets, Lamps, Duplicating Machines and Typewriters;
2/ Includes Letter Press,  Tape Recorder, P.A. System, Projector,  Generator, Exhibit and Training Materials;
3/ Includes Crop Cutting Sets, Camera Training Equipment.



INDIA
MADIYA PRADESd
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIUN5 AND RESEARCh PROJ2CT
Agriculturl Scltec-ul.
(Rupees Theuso,d)
- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -YEAR- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -----
COST/   ----1----           ---------           -----3 ------        -----4 ------       -----------                      FOREIGN  EXCHANGE
II OPERATING COSTS                    UNIT    UNIT    NC.    COST         NO.      CODS        NO.     COST        NO.      COST   N     O.      COST      TOTA L          COMPONENT (7)
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF
Agricultural Dept. Readqu-rte.t
Add. Director of Agriculture        1     17.0      1      17.0        1       17.0         4      17.0         1       17.0         1       17.0       85.0
Dy. Diroctor of Agriculture         1     11.5      3      34.5        3       34.5         3      34.5         3       34.5         3       34.5       172.5
Research Accictont                  1      7.2      1       7.2        1        7.2         1        7.2        1        7.2         1        7.2        36.0
st.cegrapher                        1      6.0      1       6.0        1        6.0         1       6.0         1        6.0         1        6.0        30.0
Stenotypists                        1      4.0      2       8.0        2        6.0         2       8.0         2        0.0         2        8.0        40.0
Disttiot Level
Dy. Director of Agriculture         1     11.5      -       -          1       11.5         1      11.5         1       11.5         1       11.5        46.0
Specialists VI                      1      9.5    14    133.0         53      503.5        53     503.5        53      503.5        53      503.5    2,147.0
Icfor-otioe and Training Ucits /  1        5.7    25    142.5         850     456.0        80     456.0        80      456.0        80     456.0    1,966.5
Driver                              1      4.0    15       60.0       48      192.0        48     192.0        48      192.0        48      192.0      828.0
Helper                              1       2.4    10      24.0       32       76.8        32       76.8       32       76.8        32       76.8       331.2
Field Trial AEO                     1      7.2    26    187.2         26      187.2        26     187.2        26      187.2        26      187.2      936.0
Sub-Dictrict Level
SD Ectencion Officer                1      9.5      6     57.0        25      237.5        25     237.5        25      237.5        25      237.5    1,007.0
Subject Molter Specialist acd
Troining Officer                  1      9.0    15    135.0         85      765.0        85     765.0        85      765.0        85      765.0    3,195.0
Statistic-l Acsistat                1      6.5    12       78.0       S0      325.0        50     325.0        50      325.0        50      325.0    1,378.0
Typist-_um-Clerk                    1      4.0    36    144.0        150      600.0       150     600.0       150      600.0       150      600.0    2,544.0
Driver                              1      4.0    24       96.0      100      400.0       100     400.0       100      400.0       100      400.0    1,696.0
Peon                                1      2.4    36       86.4      150      360.0       150     360.0       150      360.0       150      360.0    1,526.4
Field Level
Extension Officer                   1       7.2    49    352.8       305   2,196.0        305   2,196.0       305   2,196.0        305   2,196.0    9,136.8
VLWs                                1      5.2   252  1.310.4    1.252   6.510.4    1.252   6.510.4    1.252   6,510.4    1.252   6.510.4   27,352.0
Sub-Totld                                          2,879.0   12,       12,893.6            12,893.6             12,893.6            12,893.6   54,453.4
3/
B. OFFICE OPERATING COSTS
headquarters                        I       -       -      20.0                30.0                 30.0                30.0                 30.0       140.0
District                            1     40.0      5    200.0        16      640.0        16     640.0         16     640.0        16      640.0    2,760.0
Sub-District                        1     17.5    12    210.0         50      875.0        50     875.0        50      875.0        50      875.0    3,710.0
AEO                                         1.5   150    225.0       590      885.0       590     885.0       590      885.0       590    805.0    3.765.0
Sob-Total                                            655.0              2,430.0             2,430.0              2,430.0             2,430.0   10,375.0
Co-tinenccies (5%)                                    33.0                121.0               122.0                121.0                122.0       519.0
Total                                                608.0              2,551.0             2,552.0               2,551.0            2,552.0   10,894.0
4/
C. VEHICLE OPERATING COST-
Core                                1      12.0     1      12.0         1      12.0         1       12.0         1      12.0         1       12.0        60.0               10
4-Wheel Drice                       1       6.0    13      70.0       52      312.0        52      312.0        52     312.0        52      312.0    1,326.0               10
Ciceca Vace                         1      12.0     5      60.0        16     192.0        16      192.0        16     192.0        16      192.0       028.0               10
Statioc W.agon                      1     10.0      5      50.0       16      160.0        16      160.0        16     160.0        16      160.0       690.0               10
Motorcyclec                         1       2.5   150    450.0       532   1,332.0        729   1.822.5        729   1.822.5       729   1,022.5    7.247.5                 10
Sub-Total                                            650.0              2,006.0             2,490.5              2,490.5              2,498.5   10,151.5
Cootiegeocios (0%)                                    32.5                100.3               124.9                124.9                124.9       507.5
Total                                                602.5              2,106.3             2,623.4              2,623.4              2,623.4   10,659.0
D. OPERATION OF SOIL TESTING
LABORATORIES
I. Mobile Vfnts
Staff Cosrs 5/                   1     37.5      1      37.5         3     112.5         3      112.5         3     112.5         3      112.5       407.5
Operoting Costs                  1     30.0      1      30.0         3      90.0         3       90.0         3      90.0         3       90.0       390.0
2. Slalionary UVits
Staff Costs 6/                   1     60.5      2    121.0          4     242.0         4     242.0          4     242.0         4      242.0    1,089.0
Operatiig Costs                  1     40.0      2      60.0         4     160.0         4      160.0         4     160.0         4      160.0       720.0
Sob-Totl1                                             260.5               604.5                604.5               604.5                604.5    2,686.5
GRAND TOTAL                                        4,510.0             10,155.4            18,673.5             18,672.5             18,673.5   78,692.9
III. CAPITAL AND OPERATING COST                            10,064.0             33,384.9            32,273.9             18,672.5            18,673.5  113,069.6
1/ Ioclode Reesearuh Agrono-ist, valet ssaoguect, tociologisi, specialist,  etc.
2/ Each ucit coopris-s a photographer, p0100  operator, compo-it-o, 0100a - oe operator, arOti.st
3/ Includes  local  -rainiog coLs.,  purchase of ceoeion aids, field days  acd you field kits.                                                                                                             .m
/ Inclades repairs and spare,.
5/ Iocludes 4 agriculLural .scistante. 2 loboraiory assistants cod I dri-es,
6/ Includec coil testing officer, 5 research ac.islacts a-d 4 helpero.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Training
(Rs '000)
For.Exch.
I.  CAPITAL COSTS                     UNIT    COST/UNIT    YEAR I    YEAR II    YEAR III    YEAR IV           YEAR V   TOTAL   Component
No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.   Cost  No.  Cost   No. Cost                 %
A. GRAM SEVAK CENTER
Hotel, Furniture, Equipment         1        30.0       2   60.0   3   90.0   -       -     -    -                  150.0     -
Classroom Furniture                 1        15.0       2   30.0   3   45.0   -       -     -    -        -   -      75.0     -
Renovations                         1        75.0       2  150.0   3  225.0   -       -     -    -        -   -    375.0      -
Sub-Total                                                  240.0       360.0   -      -     -    -       -   -    600.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                24.0        36.0   -      -     -    -        _   _      60.0
TOTAL                                                      264.0       396.0   -      -     -    -        -   -    660.0
B. TRANSPORT
4-Wheel Drive                       1        50.0     2   100.0   -    -       -      -     -    -       -   -    100.0    25
Sub-Total                                                  100.0   -    -      -      -     -    -       -   -    100.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                364.0       396.0   -      -     -    -        -   -    760.0
II. OPERATING COSTS
A. TRAINING COSTS
Senior Staff 1/                     4 days   0.1    60       6.0 100   10.0  160   16.0  160  16.0   160 16.0   64.0          -
University Updating Courses 2/   14 days   0.25   50    12.5 100   25.0  200   50.0  200  50.0   200 50.0  187.5               -
University Specialized Courses   30 days   0.5    25    12.5  50   25.0   75   37.5   75  37.5    75 37.5  150.0              -
Univ. Upgrading Courses AEOs 3/  Man/Yr.   5.0         5    25.0  10   50.0   10   50.0   10  50.0    10 50.0  225.0           -
University Upgrading VLWs 4/       Man/Yr.   4.0    10    40.0  20   80.0   30  120.0   40 120.0    40 120.0 480.0             -
Institutional SMS Upgrading 5/   3 Man/Mos.3.0    30    90.0  30   90.0   30   90.0    -   -               -  -    270.0      -
Induction Training AEO             Man/Month 0.5   150    75.0 260  130.0    -    -          -   -         -  -    205.0      -
Sub-Total                                                  261.0       410.0        363.5       273.5       2i73.5 1,581.5     -
B. GRAM SEVAK CENTERS
Training Costs                      1        10.0      5    50.0   5   50.0    5   50.0    5  50.0         5  50.0 250.0       -
Vehicle Operating Costs             1        10.0      2    20.0   2   20.0    2   20.0    2  20.0         2  20.0 100.0    10
Sub-Total                                                   70,0        70.0         70.0        70.0         70.0 350.0
TOTAL                                                      331.0       480.0        433.5       343.5        343.51,931.5    -
Contingencies (5%)                                          17.0        24_0         21.7        17.2         17.2   97.0    -
GRAND TOTAL                                                348.0       504.0        455.2       360.7        360.7 2,028.5    -
III.CAPITAL AND OPERATING COSTS                                712.0       900.0        455.2       360.7        360.7 2,788.5       |
1/  Includes Headquarters, District and Sub-District staff.                                                                         X X
2/  For SMS and AEOs.                                                                                                                  4
3/- MSc Courses - 2 years training for 5 persons.
4/ BSc Courses - 4 years training for 10 persons.
5/ On All India basis.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
(Rs '000)
For.Exch.
I. CAPITAL COSTS                       Unit    Cost/Unit   Year I       Year II   Year III   Year IV          Year V  Total  Component
No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost  No.  Cost    No. Cost                 %
A. BUILDING & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
Office Equipment 2/                 1         28.8      1   28.0   1   28.0   -                                     56.0       5
B. TRANSPORTATION
4-Wheel Drive                       1         50.0     1   50.0   -       -                                         50.0     25
Motorcycles                         1          6.0      5   30.0  10   60.0   -       -    -       -    -    -    90.0        25
Bicycles                            1          0.4    10    4.0  20    8.0   -        -    -       -    -    -    12.0         5
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                                        112.0        96.0                                       208.0
II. OPERATING COSTS
A. STAFF AT HEADQUARTERS
Senior Agricultural Economist       1         11.5      1   11.5   1.  11.5   1       11.5  1   11.5.   1  11.5  57.5          -
Senior Statistician                 1         11.5      1   11.5   1   11.5   1       11.5  1   11.5    1  11.5  57.5          -
Marketing Specialist                1          9.5      -     -    1    9.5   1        9.5  1    9.5    1.  9.5  38.0          -
Farm Management Specialist          1          9.5      1    9.5   1    9.5   1        9.5  1    9.5    1   9.5  47.5
Statistician                        1          9.5      1    9.5   2   19.0   2       19.0  2   19.0    2  19.0  85.5          -
Programmer   l/                     1          7.2      1    7.2   1    7.2   1        7.2  1    7.2    1   7.2  36.0          -
Support Staff-                      1          5.0      3   15.0   6   30.0   6       30.0  6   30.0    6  30.0 135.0          -
B.  STAFF AT DIVISION
Agricultural Economist              1          9.5      6   57.0  15  142.5  15    142.5 15  142.5   15 142.5 627.0
Support Staff                       1          7.0    12   84.0  30  210.0  30    210.0 30  210.0   30 210.0 924.0             -
C.  OFFICES
Headquarters Office                 1         12.5      1   12.5   2   25.0   2        25.0  2   25.0    2  25.0 112.5         -
District Offices                    1          3.0      6   18.0  15   45.0  15       45.0 15   45.0   15  45.0 198.0          -
D. VEHICLES
4-Wheel Drive                       1         12.0      1   12.0   1   12.0   1        12.0  1   12.0    1  12.0  60.0        10
Motocycles                          1          2.5      5   12.5  15   37.5  15        37.5 15   37.5   15  37.5 162.5        10  
Bicycles                            1          0.1    10    1.0  30    3.0  30          3.0 30    3.0   30   3.0  13.0         -
E.  EXTERNAL PROJECT EVALUATION                                200.0       200.0          200.0      200.0       200.0 1,000.0       m 4'
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                      461.2       773.2         773.2      773.2        773.2 3,554.0
III.CAPITAL & OPERATING COSTS                                  573.2       869.2          773.2      773.2       773.2 3,762.0
ncludes Stenographers, Typist and Key Punch Operators.
2/ Includes 2 typewriters, 2 desk calculators, furniture and minor appliances.



ANNEX 4
INDIA                         Table
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Price Contingencies (Thousand Rupees)
-__-------------------YEAR-
1           2            3            4             5            Total
Civil Works-      2/    4,161       11,493       12,258          --            --         27,912
Price Contingency-         208       1,494        2,697          --            --          4,399
Total                 4,369       12,987       14,955          --           --         32,311
Equipment, Vehicles-/  7,283        12,234        2,992          --            --         22,509
Price Contingency 3/       364       1,346          568          --            --          2,278
Total                 7,647       13,580        3,560          --           --         24,787
Establishment Cost-/  10,756        24,819       25,289       25,195       25,194        111,253
Price Contingency 4/       269       2,233        3,793        5,543         7,559        19,397
Total                11,025       27,052       29,082       30,738       32,753       130,650
Total (with Physical
Contingency)         22,200       48,546       40,539       25,195       25,194       161,674
Price Contingencies        841       5,073        7,058        5,543         7,559        26,074
TOTAL PROJECT COST    23,041        53,619       47,597       30,738       32,753       187,748
1/ Includes Physical Contingencies;
2/ 1.5% for the second half of 1976, 7% in 1977 and 8% thereafter.  Compounded, this is
equivalent to 5%, 13%, 22% 32% and 42% in years 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively;
3/ 1.5% for the second half of 1976, 6% in 1977 and 7% thereafter. Compounded, this is
equivalent to 5% in year 1, 11%, 19%, 27% and 36% for years 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively;
4/ 6% from 1977 onwards, equivalent to 2.5% in year 1, 9%, 15%, 22% and 30% in years 2, 3, 4
and 5 respectively.



ANNEX 5
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements-1/
(US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                                      ------ Disbursement ------
and Quarter                                          In Quarter       Cumulative
FY 1978
3rd-2                                                  0.3             o.3
4th                                                    0.3             0.6
FY 1979
1st                                                    0.4             1.0
2nd                                                    0.5             1.5
3rd                                                    0.8             2.3
4th                                                    1.0             3.3
FY 1980
1st                                                    1.1             4.4
2nd                                                    1.2             5.6
3rd                                                    0.6             6.2
4th                                                    0.5             6.7
FY 1981
1st                                                    0.5             7.2
2nd                                                    0.5             7.7
3rd                                                    0.5             8.2
4th                                                    0.5             8.7
FY 1982
1st                                                    0.5             9.2
2nd                                                    0.3             9.5
3rd                                                    0.3             9.8
4th                                                    0.2            10.0
1/ Calculations based on Annex 6, assuming 1-2 quarter lags in disbursements.
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness September 1, 1977.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Cumulative Schedule of Staff Appointments-/
EXTENSIO 2
 ----------------  Years   ---
1         2           3          4        5
Headquarters
Add. Director of Agriculture          1          1          1          1         1
Deputy Director of Agriculture        3          3          3          3         3
Support Staff                         4         4           4          4        4
District Level
Deputy Director of Agriculture        -          1          1          1         1
Specialists (SMS)                    14        53          53         53       53
Information and Training Unit        25        80          80         80       80
Support Staff                        51       106         106        106      106
Sub-District Level
SD Extension Officer                  6        25          25         25       25
SMS (incl. Training Officer)         15        85          85         85       85
Support Staff                       108       450         450        450      450
Field Level
AEO                                  49        305        305        305      305
VLW                                 252     1,252       1,252      1,252    1,252
3'
RESEARCH STATIONS-/
Assoc. Director of Research           4         4           4          4        4
Asst. Director of Research            1         1           1          1        1
Senior Research Staff                26        26          26        26        26
Junior Research Staff                41        41          41        41        41
District Research Agronomist         16        16          16        16        16
Research Assistants                  44        44          44        44        44
Support Staff                       41         41          41        41        41
1/  Full staff strength in case of extension would be reached after Year 2
of operation and in case of research after Year 1.
2/ For details see Annex 2 and Annex 6.
3/ For details see Annex 3.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Initial Imolementation Schedule
ITEM                                   Pre-Board          Pre-                        1    2    3    4    5    6    7    a    9    10    II   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24
Presentation       Effectiveness
EXTENSION AND TRAINING
Buildings and Equipment
Site Selection
Land Purchase
Prepare Tenders
Start Construction
Prepare Tenders For:
Vehicles
Equipment
Purchase Vehicles
Purchase Equipment
Prepare Plans For:
Renovation of
Training Centers
Start Renovations
Staff
Appoint ADA
Posting of 51                                                                                              -
Selection of AEO
Selection of VLW
Staff Training
RESEARCH
Buildings and EsuiPment
Prepare Building
Specifications
Prepare Tenders
Start Construction
Prepare Tenders For
Equipment
Vehicles
Purchase Equipment
Purchase Vehicles
Staff
Select Staff
Appint Staff
Pro1ect MonzitorinlR
Select Staff
Appoint Staff
ProJect Evaluation
Initiate Design of Base
Surveys
Finalize Details with Univefsity
Data Collection



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION-/
1.        The project seeks to reorganize and strengthen agricultural exten-
sion and supportive research services in 15 districts of Madhya Pradesh, to
generate and to bring proven agricultural practices to a large number of
farmers thereby increasing their productivity and income.
To successfully assess outputs, effects and impacts of this kind
of institution building project, it is necessary to distinguish between
various levels of objectives. Three levels of objectives can be distin-
guished:
(a) Project Outputs. These are the outcome of project
activities.
(b) Project Effects. These are the outcome of increased
use made of project outputs.
(c) Project Impact. This is the change in the standard of
living of people living in the project area.
2.        The concepts for measuring the degree of achievement of the various
objectives as used here are:
(a) Monitoring. Is the continuous gathering of information
on project inputs and objectives, and on conditions and com-
plementary activities that are critical to the success of
the project. It utilizes benchmar' information collected
during the design/preparation phase, and continues through-
out the project's lifetime when it includes the comparison
of this information against original objectives and standards;
it alerts project management and policy-makers to implementa-
tion problems requiring corrective action; and it may provide
the necessary information for the instigation and preparation
of ongoing evaluation.
(b) Ongoing Evaluation. It is the continual analysis during project
implementation of project outputs, effects and developmental
1/   The concepts and definitions used in this Annex are based on Guide Deboeck:
"Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation of Rural Development Projects,"
Agriculture and Rural Development Department, IBRD, Wahsington, D.C.,
January 1977.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
impact. The purpose of ongoing evaluation is to provide pro-
ject management and policy-makers with analytical support
that might be necessary to enable them to assess and, if re-
quired, adjust policies, objectives, institutional arrangements
and resources affecting the project during implementation.
Ongoing evaluation studies may also feed into the preparation
of projects in other regions.
3.        A framework for analyzing systematically the performance of this
project and a method for collecting the information necessary to identify
short and long-term problems are presented in Table 1 of this Annex.
4.        It is necessary that a benchmark study, establishing data on the
socio-economic conditions of farmers living in the project area, the agri-
cultural practices they use and the types of agricultural packages the
extension system is recommending would be undertaken. Details of this study,
its survey design, questionnaire, sample design, data analysis and management
and reporting would be mutually agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
5.        Equally, it would be necessary that data collection, with regards
to the information indicated above, would continue throughout the project's
lifetime. Information on critical factors affecting the various linkages,
as indicated in Table 1, would equally have to be collected and analyzed.
6.        A project unit would be established under the Joint Director in
charge of the Statistics and Planning Unit of the Department of Agriculture.
At headquarters the unit would consist of one senior Agricultural Economist
assisted by a Senior Statistician, two agricultural economists (one special-
ized in marketing and the other in farm management) and a supporting staff
of statisticians, programmers and clerks. Details are at Annex 4, Table 5.
Details of senior staff qualifications are given in Appendix 1.
7.        Small supporting units would also be established in each project
district, headed by an agricultural economists and supported by a small
clerical and statistical unit. This unit would collate and compile rele-
vant district data for onward transmission to headquarters and the agri-
cultural economist would also provide farm management advice and guidance
to district staff. In the event that local field work is required and
which might required sizeable numbers of staff for short periods of time,
then assistance would be sought from the presently existing staff of the
Statistics and Planning Unit of the Department of Agriculture.
8.        To provide an independent assessment in greater depth of the
economic and social effects and impact of the project, funds would be
provided for the Agricultural Production Commissioner to commission such
surveys and studies as might be necessary.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
Page 1
Staff Qualifications-Project Monitoring Unit
1.   Senior Agricultural Economist (SAE)
Qualifications. The candidate should have a M.Sc. degree in Agri-
cultural Economics with at least six years of experience in positions of
responsibility and involving experience of extension farm management, and
related fields in agricultural development and planning. SAE must have an
understanding of the social and institutional background to agricultural
development and be able to implement and manage the project unit and control
and direct district level staff.
Responsibilities. SAE would have full responsibility for adminis-
tration of the project unit and would report directly to the Joint Director
of Agriculture on all findings and on the design, implementation, and recom-
mendations for periodic studies. SAE would maintain close liaison with
extension and research units and other organizations that may directly or
indirectly influence the performance of the project. He would be responsible
for compiling all reports.
2.   Senior Statistician (SS)
Qualifications. A M.Sc. degree in statistics and with at least six
years of experience in the field of applied statistics, and especially with
regard to agriculture. SS, under the guidance of the Senior Agricultural
Economist, would design information systems and analyze results from surveys.
Responsibility. SS would guide Agricultural Economists at district
level offices in their work of evaluating farm practices, extension recom-
mendations, and the like.
3.   Other Staff
At headquarters there would be two economists with M.Sc. degrees
in Agricultural Economics, one specialized in farm management and the other
in marketing and who would be responsible for coordinating field work in
districts. Support staff in statistical analysis and computer programming
would support the unit's activities. District level staff would comprise an
Agricultural Economist with M.Sc. degree.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Design Summary and Monitoring and Evaluation Framework
HIERARCHY OF OBJECTIVES                                              INDICATORS                                       MEANS OF VERIFICATION                                 CRITICAL FACTORS
I.  Project Impact                                                Measures of Achievement of Project                 Monitoring and Evaluation Design                 Affecting Long-Term Value of Project
Impact and Effects
1.  To modernize agriculture in the State and to con-   - Percentage of people employed in different  Sector.0 Studies                                          - Choice  ,f agricultural technology
tribute to the regional and rural development              sectors of the economy.                                                                             (labor versus capital intensive).
through higher factory productivity in agriculture
leading in the medium term to a higher degree of    - Value of purchased farm inputs to value
interlinkages between agricultural and industrial          of agricultural output.
production.
II.  Project Effects                                              Conditions Indicating Achievements of              I. Ongoing Evaluation of Micro-Trends            Critical Factors Affecting Output- to-Effect
Project Effects                                       Selected Farmer's Income, Production         Linkages
and Employment
A.  Increased farmer income either in form of higher    A. Household's ownership cf producer (ploughs,   Purpose:                                                1. Availability of complementary inputs to farmers
home consumption or through sales of produce.               farm equipment, etc.) or consumer assets   1. To provide GOMP with information on the               to implement recommended practices:
tloVing into account family size and com-         socio-economic effects of the project.           - credit
B.  Increased production of major foodgrains.                   position, hired labor, off-farm  employ-    2. To adjust the design of future extension    - fertilizer
ment, land ownership and hence rental             projacts.                                         - seed
C. Higher utilization of labor (family and/or hired).           obligations or receipts to arrive at               Meciudology:                                     - pesticides
final estimate of household income.            1. Baseline survey including household           2. Prices of inputs and output.
D.  Increasing demand for agricultural inputs and                                                                  surveys and surveys of agricultural           3. Storage and marketing arrangements.
storage and marketing facilities.                       B. Yields over 5 years of foodgrains                   practices (farm budgets).                    4. Natural factors affecting agricultural produc-
according to:                                     Details of survey design, questionnaire,    tion (rainfall, temperature, etc.)
- irrigated or unirrigated areas;                  sample design, data analysis and
- different size of holdings.                     management and reporting will be worked
C. No indicator has been specified.                   out by 
Responsibility:
D. Sales of agricultural iniputs (fertilizer,         Joint Director, Statistics and Planning(SPU)
seed, pesticides, insecticides, credit).          and Agricultural Production Commissioner.
Market arrivals of produce (turnover at   II. Ongoing Evaluation of Macro Trends
mandis.)                                           (Production, consumption of farm inputs) on
a District and State basis).
Responsibility:
Joint Director, Statistics and Planning (SFU)
/Continused --



HIERARCIHY OF OBJECTIVES                                              INDICATORS                                 MEANS OF VERIFICATION                       CRITICAL FACTORS
Detailed Monitoring and Micro-Evaluation    Critical Factors Affecting Input-To-
III. Project Outputs                                            Magnitude of Outputs                             of Project Progress                            Output Link
Purpose:
1. Reliable and effective professional extension           Number of adaptive field trials carried         l. To generate reliable base data on:          - Close working relationship between
and supportive research system.                         out with different crops, cropping                  (a) the stock of agricultural -              extension and research staff focusing
2. Applied and adaptive research would focus on            patterns and farming systems in what                production knowledge within the               on practical problems faced by farmers.
main crops and on developing cultural practices,        intervals and with what results.   New              research system that could be rele-           The danger to extension and research will
using early maturing and high yielding varieties.    varieties, new packages of agronomic                   vant for farmers; and (b) agricultural        always be "irrelevamce".
Particular attention would be paid to:                  practices for main crops, farm                      practices currently used by farmers
- dryland farming practices including soil and         management studies and testing modification          and to collect these data in sub-
water management;                                     and development of improved farm implements.        sequent years.
- improved farming system and cropping patterns;                                                        2. To develop the institutional capa-
- development of farm implements.                                                                           bility required to carry out this
3. Extension system would provide farmers, on a            Numbers of extension staff trained (VLW,            task.
re,pular and systematic basis, with up-to-date          AEO, SMS) and their spatial distribution.       Methodology:
advice on and demonstration of farming practices        Numbers of farmers directly and in-             In case of research:
best suited to their specific conditions and            directly reached in what time intervals.         - deie  t           co
having an imsmediate impact on production and           Number of field trials and demonstrations          crops, cropping patterns, farming
income.                                                 performed.  Types of agricultural practices        systems;
4. Monitoring and evaluation results.                      recommended.                                     - data collection from research
Quarterly reports and input into Work Plans.    stations.
In case of farming practices used
by farmers:
- define sampling procedures;
- pre-testing of surveys;
- data collection.
Organization and Staffing
See Statistics and Planning Unit.
IV. Project Inputs/Activities                                   Quality of Inputs/Resources                      Accounting and Auditing                        Assumptions for Obtaining Proiect Outputs
1. Provide additional staff, housing, offices,             1.  Annex 4, Table 2a/2b                         - Department of Agriculture and Univ.          l. Survey to locate sites for VLW, AEO and SDEO
transportation and training to consolidate the        2. Annex 4, Table 4                                of Udaipur keep separate project                 housing within six months of credit signing.
reorganization of the extension service.               3.  Annex 4, Table 5                                accounts;                                   2. Appointment of all incremental Extension and
2. Develop and upgrade six existing commodity                                                               - yearly independent audit ng of                  ; esearch Staff in accordance with schedule
oriented regional research stations and five                                                              of accounting records;                          (paras 3.06 and 3.14).
sub-stations by farm development, provision                                                            - quarterly reporting of project                3. Setting up of Project Coordination Committee,
of staff, equipment, laboratory facilities,                                                               activities by Additional Director               State and Regional Research Coordination
housing and vehicles.                                                                                     of Agriculture, heading the Extension           Committees.
3. Provide fellowships and short term consultancy.                                                            Implementation Unit, and the Director
4. Provide staff, equipment and funds for                                                                     of Research, University of Udaipur.
monitoring and evaluation of project outputs,
effects Ind impact.
M ju



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
ECONOMIC IMPACT AND RATE OF RETURN
1.        Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project
is difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not sufficient experience in Madhya
Pradesh to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However,
there is no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of
utilization of existing resources, which would be brought about by the
project, would generate a high rate of return. Yield increases necessary
to generate a 50% economic rate of return have been calculated. It has
been assumed that by Year 7 only 50% of all cropped land would have bene-
fited from improved farming practices and, that the present cropping pat-
tern of 15% paddy, 20% wheat, 25% pulses and 40% lower valued cereals
(sorghum, maize, barley, millets) would continue.
2.        Table 1 shows that to realize a 50% economic rate of return,
annual incremental production value by Year 7, at 1976 prices, would need
to reah about Rs 91 M (US$10e 1 M). This could be achieved with annual
yield increases of about 9,300 tons paddy, 8,800 tons wheat, 30,800 tons
pulses and 47,900 tons of other lower valued cereals, coming from 3.5 M
ha of the 7.0 M of annually cropped land to be found in the project area.
These increases would amount to 25 kg per ha of all crops grown. Experience
with reorganized extension services in other states of India suggests that
there would be little risk that yields would not increase by an average
of at least 25 kg per ha. The following shows yields now obtained on best
farmers' fields and present average yields:
Present Yields -
Crop          Area           Yield Averages            Best Farmers
(M Ha)            kg/ha                     kg.ha
Paddy          1.1                 750                    1,600
Wheat          1.3                 730                    2,000
Pulses         1.8                 690                    1,600
Other
cereals 1/   2.8                  720                    1,800
1/   Sorghum, Barley, Maize, Millets and Barley.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Assumptions
3.        The life of the project is assumed to be 20 years and no residual
value is attributed after that period.
4.        In deriving the cost stream, extension, training and research crops
have been aggregated (Table 1). No scrap values have been placed on buildings
and equipment. Financial prices have been used on all cost items. The sha-
dow exchange component is small; shadow pricing of foreign exchange cost would
have a negligible effect of the result.
5.        The benefit stream and conversion to a yield figure has been derived
on the following assumptions:
(a)  that all benefits derived come from 7.0 M ha cropped land,
cropped as follows:
Paddy 1.1 M ha
Wheat 1.3 M ha
Pulses 1.8 M ha
Other cereals 2.8 M ha
(b)  the economic price of crops is based on Bank Commodity Price
forecasts June, 1976 and calculated to be paddy Rs 1,530 per
ton, wheat Rs 1,920 per ton and other crops Rs 760 per ton;
(c) benefits would accrue as-follows:
Year                 Percentage
1                     Nil
2                      10
3                      30
4                      60
5                      80
6                      90
7 onwards             100
6.        Project Risks:  The most significant risk lies in the fact that
the effectiveness of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an
efficient organization and management of extension and research services as
well as farmers' response. Experience with ongoing projects has already
demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in formula-
tion and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed
project is different from the ongoing activities in that it mainly concen-
trates on rainfed, rather than irrigated, areas and for this reason there
is a somewhat higher degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increase.
However, there are a significant number of improved practices and research
findings suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve yields,



ANNEX 8
Page 3
even under rainfed conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend
to be less affluent and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even
though benefits may be lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would
still be considerable, both in economic and social terms. A second genera-
tion risk would be faced when the success of the new methodology generates
demand for additional inputs. If this were not met, the resultant farmer
frustration could adversely affect the success of the extension effort. How-
ever, at this juncture and for some time to come, the deficiencies in the
existing network for supplying farmers' inputs are related to the lack of
demand and there is slack in the network which can be taken up to meet addi-
tional demand. The Project Coordination Committee, which is charged with over-
seeing the planning and execution and extension effort, is also responsible
for assessing seasonal input requirements and should be able to ensure the
development of arrangements capable of coping with increased demand.



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH
AGRI-CULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECTS
Economic Analysis
-------------Costs (Rs '000)                                               Benefits  ----     -
Incremental  Jpgrading  Incremental   Total       Total Cost  % UltT                     Present
Extension    Training   Research        Total    Discounted   Benefit       Discount    Value of
Year                   Costs        Centers     Costs        Cost       at 50%       Achieved    Factor       Benefits
1                    9,784          691      10,062       20,537       13,678         -         0.666            -
2                   32,371         820       12,370       45,561       20,229        10         0.444        0.044
3                   30,912         433        6,672       38,017       11,253        30         0.296        0.088
4                   18,428          344       5,172       23,944        4,717        60         0.197        0.118
5                   18,426          343       5,171       23,940        3,136        80         0.131        0.105
6                   18,426          343       5,171       23,940        2,083        90          0.087       0 .078
7                   18,426          343       5,171       23,940        1,388      100          0.058        0.058
55,096                                 0.607
The annual incremental value of crops (1976 prices) required from Year 7 onwards to achieve a 50% rate of return
is Rs 55.10 M or Rs 91 M
0.607
Present Yearly        Price                 Present Yearly VaLue
Area                Present Yields          Production                                      pf Crpps
M Ha                  Tons/Ha                M Tons                 Rs/Ton                      Rs M
Paddy               1.1                     0.7                   0.77                  1,53 3d                    1,178
Wheat               1.3                     0.73                  0.95                  1,9201/                    1,824
Other Crops         4.6                     0.65                   3.0                    760-'/                   2x280
5,282
To obtain Rs 91 M all yields must increase by 91   or 1.8% on all cropped land or 4% on 50% of cropped area.  Yield
increases required would thus be:               5282
Paddy     24 kg/ha
Wheat     25 kg/ha
Other Crops  22 kg/ha
H >c
April 11, 1977
1/ See Tables 2a and 2b.
2/ Government support price has been used as these crops are not traded.



ANNEX 8
Table 2a
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
Economic Price for Paddy
1. Milled Rice - Bombay
US$
Price milled rice 25-35% brokens                     1/
fob Bangkok                                     234-1
Add cif to Bombay and handling
to wholesale outlet                              42
276 ton in Bombay
wholesale market
2.  Cost of Milling and Handling Rice from Madhya Pradesh (Farmgate to Bombay)
Paddy - farm to mill, transport, in-store handling and storage charge
Rs/ton
Transport                                 17.50 2/
Milling and handling                      30.00 -'
47.50/ton paddy
- 71.97/ton milled rice
Milled Rice - transport, storage and handling to wholesale market
Rs/ton
Transport, mill to railhead-/             20.70
Rail to Bombay               5/           30.00
Handling to wholesale market-             40.80
91.50/ton milled rice
3.   Economic Price Paddy at Farmgate
Imported rice Bombay wholesale market
(US$276/ton) less milling and handling
charges Madhya Pradesh to Bombay, converted from rupees to dollars @Rs9=US$1;
(Rs 71.97 + 91.50 = US$18.2/ton milled rice)
9
6/
= US$(276-18) x 0.66-
US$170 or Rs 1,530/ton paddy
1/ From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, June 1976. 1985 forecast for milled
rice 5% brokens at US$359.4/ton x 0.65 for price of 25-35% brokens.
2/ Transport farm to millhead Rs 1.50/qtl or Rs 1.75 qtl to railhead.
3/ Miller paid Rs 20/ton for milling + Rs 10/ton commission and other charges
for 66% outturn.
4/ Say 50 km haul at Rs 0.67/qtl for 15 km plus Rs 0.04/qtl/km over.
5/ Handling charges and commission.
6/ Milling percentage.
December 10, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 2b
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Economic Impact and Rate of Return
Economic Price for Wheat
1.  Wheat - Bombay                                   US$
Price of Wheat fob Canada                        172-'
Add cif to Bombay and
handling to wholesale outlet                     52
224/ton in Bombay
wholesale market
2. Cost of Handling Wheat from Madhya Pradesh (Farmgate to Bombay)
Transport2 nd handling up to           Rs/ton
railhead-                             25.00
Rail to Bombay               3/        30.00
Handling to wholesale market-          40.80
95.80
3.  Economic Price of Wheat at Farmgate
Imported wheat Bombay wholesale market
(US$224/ton less handling charges from
Madhya Pradesh to Bombay, converted from rupees to dollars @Rs9=US$1);
= US$213 or Rsl,920/ton wheat.
1/ From Bank Commodity Price Forecast, Report No.814, June 1976;
1985 forecast for Canadian wheat.
2/ Transport and handling from farms-to railhead Rs 2.50/qtl.
3/ Handling charges and commission.
not".Tmhir 10n 1 97f



INDIA
MADHYA PRODESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
COORDINATIVE                                                                                                                         LEVEL OF
RESEARCH                         BODIES                                                              EXTENSION                                                   ADMINISTRATION
VICE CHANC LLOR          ------------        PROJECT      --------------------------------                   AGRICULTURAL                                                       STATE
AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY                     COORD COMMITTEE                                               PRODUCTION COMISOE
DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH                                                  -         -DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE                                                             STATE
~ CENTRAL' --                                                                                 IDA's & DDA's
PLANNING
COMMITTEE, S------------------                                    ADDITIONALSTATE
__ _ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE (EXT) .............STE
HEAD DEPT OF
ECONOMICS AND                                                                                                                                  (ADMIN)    DDAIEXT)        DDA
FARM MANAGEMENT
(HALUAI'O  G )ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR5)  |  ; CONAL           (MONITORING UNIT)                                    T             TRAININGA N                             DIVISION
(EVALUATION STUDIS                  OF RESEARCH 15)       ----PLANNING-----DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE                                                          ETS5)DVIO
(REGIONAL RESEARCH STATIONS)      /                        -
DISTRICT 16) DEPUTY                                                                                                                                        DISTRICT
/                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE                                 DSRC
RESEARCH SUB-STATIONS (7)__...
RESEARCH        SEED          ECONONOMIST
AGRONOMIST    SPECIALIST            (16)                         SUBDIVISIONAL (50)                                                    SUB-DIVISION
EXTENSION OFFICER                                                    SBDVSO
AGRICUTURALEXTENION    1 (AGRONOMY) p(PLANtT
AED (BLOCI
*                                                                                              r                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(INP JTS)
l   VILLAGE LEVEL EXTENSION    l                                        VILLAGE
l  WORKER (3530) (VLW)   <VW40
8 FARMER UNITS PER VLW                                                  FIELD
ADAPTIVE                                                   10 CONTACT FARMERS PER UNIT
TRIALS
(FARMERS FIELDS)
World Bank-1 6789






IBRD 12539
G WA L IOR
DAT T I A
T   T   A   R         p   R
s
S H I V P U R
y
AP            ^je
411AIGIRH
REWA
L      G U N A                                                         S  T N 'A
MA N1 0 A I 1
P A N N                 f y         S I D H
-24-                        r f
V I D I S H A
DAMOH C,
_;T L A AA-,§AJAPUR ,                  I   ___
RAJGARH
SHAHDOL                            SURGUA
U J J AN
-,-J A B A L P U R
V,
A ------
I N D 0 R E",*
M A N D L A                 f t L A S P L)R
D EWAS
S F 0 N                                    s p U R  z
D H A R
L    P U R
---- ------- --
A                                                                                                      21
KHARGO                                                                                                   HA,         o
1                                                                                                           As 8.1.W
R A I P U R
A    S  H    T   R   A
D U R G
INDIA                                                                                                0
MADHYA  PRADESH                                                                                                                     2-
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
M- R--h 5w,-
A    R--h                                                                  I A I T A R
A   G-- 5 ... k T--g C.-,
D                                                                            ......
s'- c.p 1
T.-
II I At ,                                             --------
-1,
B A                                                                                                                                                         c  m
9 e 6
v 6A I



