Document of
FILE COPY                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2011-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
AND RESEARCH.PROJECT
May 2, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at April 28, 1977)
Rs 1.00           =         Paise 100
Rs 1.00           =         US$0.1145
US$1.00           =         Rs 8.73
Rs 1 million      =         US$114,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been offi-
cially valued relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As these currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/
Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in the Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 9.00).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA       -    Additional Director/s of Agriculture
AEO       -    Agricultural Extension Officer/s
GOI       -    Government of India
GOMP      -    Government of Madhya Pradesh
JDA       -    Joint Director/s of Agriculture
JNAU      -    Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University
SMS       -    Suject Matter Specialist
VLW       -    Village Level Worker/s
CROP SEASON
Kharif    -    Summer Rainy Season
Rabi      -    Winter Dry Season



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$10 million on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a project for the strengthening and expansion of
agricultural extension services and upgrading of adaptive research facilities
in the State of Madhya Pradesh. The proceeds of this credit would be channelled
to the Government of Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Government of India's
standard terms and arrangements for financing of state development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), will be distributed to the Executive Directors
about May 4, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 640 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investible resources: the net transfer of resources
from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as 0.8%
between 1969/70 and 1973/74; similarly, while India's domestic savings ef-
fort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP. The investment rate puts India
in the lower third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is
the fact that in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10%
in the early 1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP
growth has remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the
efficiency of capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization,
long project gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive
projects and sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum (converted at the official exchange rate) and US$250 on a purchasing
power parity basis.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change. Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. Undoubtedly, changes in economic policies
and emphasis will be formulated in the course of the next few months. The
state of the economy was not a prominent election issue; in fact the economy
was generally stronger than at any time in the last six years. Although the
growth of GDP in 1967/77 is not expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top
of the very good growth of 8.8% in 1975/76. Agricultural production is ex-
pected to have fallen by about 3%, but only because of the return to a more
normal harvest of 110-114 million tons of foodgrains after the record 121
million tons of the previous year. Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77,
which is significantly above the rates achieved in the late 1960's and early
1970's. Exports continued their bright performance, rising by 18% in US dol-
lars and 12% in volume terms. The overall resource position, with record
foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exceptionally strong, and gives
the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September, 1974 through March 1976,



rose 11% from the end of March to December, 1976 and continued rising into
1977. It is not yet clear whether this upsurge indicates a new inflationary
trend or merely a correction of the previous sharp decline in the relative
prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign ex-
change reserves, to a level of US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the trade deficit
is estimated to have fallen by US$1,080 million, due to a rise of US$845
million in exports and also to a fall of US$235 million in imports, primarily
because of lower prices and volumes of foodgrains and fertilizer imports. The
decreased trade deficit, along with a further increase in the net inflow of
miscellaneous capital and invisibles from abroad of US$540 million, more than
offset the fall of US$350 million in net aid and the substantial repurchases
of currency from the IMF, and allowed a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves,
which reached a level of US$3.7 billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the new Government the op-
portunity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task
is to raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%.
In the long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But
it will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptablly low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With
regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.



- 4 -
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for rapid growth, as the most serious
constraints on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation
with respect to power, coal and imported raw materials and components. There
has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77 Central
Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In many
cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in their
markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain chemicals,
some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and vehicles.
But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand will grow
only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If the higher
growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize,
it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to
specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share that agri-
culture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for agricul-
tural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced
inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand signi-
ficantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       Improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for India's
ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organization-
al and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been over-
come, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable, and
the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export demand.
Supply of electricity continues to be a concern, because of the vulnerability
of hydro power to variations in the monsoon and the continued existence of
local shortages, even when the overall power situation is satisfactory. But
the severe power supply constraints of the past have been relaxed for the
moment at least, and several institutional improvements promise to reduce
the future incidence of shortages: underutilization of capacity has been
virtually eliminated in well-established power stations; progress has been
made in the organized exchange of power between states thus relieving local-
ized power shortages; and the problems of slow implementation of power invest-
ment due to delayed delivery of materials and equipment have virtually dis-
appeared. In addition, the delays caused by the inability of State Electricity



-5-
Boards to finance projects expeditiously have been eased by their improved
financial position following tariff increases, and by increased Plan outlays
by the Central Government. The medium term prospects for the oil and gas
sector have been further improved by major new finds of oil and gas near the
large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was brought to
shore for the first time in May 1976; production reached an annual rate of 2
million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million tons by
1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat above
the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising
imports will be avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are
also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of
exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.   Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 49 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,751 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$808 million has been
repaid, and US$1,524 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$12.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$31.5 million, US$25.0 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted



- 7 -
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
March 31, 1977, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$968 mil-
lion, of which US$512 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount
outstanding of US$456 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12Z of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN INDIA AND MADHYA PRADESH
23.       Agriculture is India's most important sector.   It provides employ-
ment for approximately 70% of the population, contributes about 45% to GNP,
and provides a major share of exports. GOI's emphasis in the agricultural
sector has been on increasing foodgrain output through improved yields
resulting from more intensive use of seed of high yielding varieties (HYV),
fertilizer, pesticides and irrigation. With self-sufficiency in food as a
national objective, investments in foodgrain production have been given top
priority by Government and will continue to be the focus of national atten-
tion for the foreseeable future.



- 8 -
24.       Since independence, the overall growth of agricultural production
has averaged 3% per annum. This rate has been very much affected by serious
droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1973 and obscures considerable
variations over shorter periods, between crops and between regions. The
success of high yielding varieties produced increases in wheat production of
about 20% per annum between 1967 and 1971. This "green revolution" primarily
affected wheat, and was concentrated in north western India, very largely on
account of the advanced state of agriculture in that area and the availability
of irrigation. Efforts to spread the high yielding technology have been
hampered by limited irrigation facilities and farm service, and supply insti-
tutions operating at low levels of effectiveness. But the under-utilization of
modern inputs is first a demand problem rather than one of sheer availability.
In much of India, where yields are low, farmers are caught in a cycle of low
productivity, low income and low investment; they are poorly placed to take on
the risks associated with the new technology which is costly, particularly as
it tends to yield low returns when applied under traditional cultural practices.
25.       A way to help break this cycle is to raise standards of cultural
practices, using resources already available to farmers, in particular abund-
ant labor. The key to this approach is a strengthening and reorganization
of existing agricultural research and extension services along the lines first
tried on a limited area in three Bank Group assisted irrigation projects in
Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (Ln. 1011-IN, Cr. 502-IN and CR. 562-IN). These
projects showed dramatic production increases are possible by widespread
improvement in such basic cultural practices as seedbed preparation, control
of plant population and weeding. This advice is carried by a reorganized
extension service which puts great emphasis on concentration of efforts,
systematic and regular training, close supervision of staff at all levels,
and a fixed schedule of visits to farmers' groups. Coupled with an expanded
program of adaptive research, the system has the capacity to transmit appro-
priate recommendations from researcher to the farmer quickly and effectively
at little extra cost to Government. Once farmers increase their production
and their confidence in the extension service grows, they can be expected to
adopt the higher yielding and more costly technology based on purchased inputs
and on-farm investments.
26.       Present plans envisage that this approach to improving extension
services will be introduced over a wide area of India in Bank Group assisted
projects in 1976/77 and 1977/78. This project would extend the improved system
to a large part of Madhya Pradesh.
27.       Madhya Pradesh.  Madhya Pradesh (MP), situated in the heart of India,
is the largest state in land area, sixth in population and second largest in
foodgrain production. Agriculture is the dominant economic activity, employing
80% of the population and contributing over half of the state's gross domestic
product. The state has diverse agroclimatic regions and a diverse cropping
pattern with significant production of rice, wheat, sorghum, millets, pulses
and oilseeds. Over 80% of total cropped areas is under some form of foodgrain,



- 9 -
most of which is rainfed. Irrigation is available only to 9% of net sown area.
Tubewells account for less than 1% of the area irrigated. Cropping intensity
is low, at 111%. A striking feature of agriculture in Madhya Pradesh is the
low crop yields not only for pulses and coarse grains, but for rice and wheat
as well, which in 1973/74 were under 0.8 tons per hectare, compared to the
All-India average of over 1.1 tons per hectare for both crops.
28.       Yields are not only low but have been slow to improve.   While the
total area under foodgrains has increased by about 20% over the last 20 years,
total foodgrain production has increased only 23%. Even this small yield
increase has been derived largely from irrigated land; rainfed yields have
stagnated. Fertilizer consumption per cropped hectare is a tenth of that in
the Punjab and 30% of the All-India average.
29.       Madhya Pradesh shares with the rest of India the basic structural
problems associated with variable rainfall patterns, a large proportion of
small and fragmented holdings and a skewed distribution of land ownership.
About half of all holdings are under 2 hectares each, representing only 10% of
the area; 10% of holdings are above 10 hectares each accounting for 38% of the
area. Land tenure arrangements are complex with tenancy and sharecropping
prevalent. In addition, Madhya Pradesh has a high percentage of tribal people
in the population. But these structural problems, which exist to a greater or
lesser extent elsewhere, do not account fully for the low yields. Standards of
cultural practices are low; the low yields under these practices make investing
in modern inputs of questionable profitability; the resulting low incomes make
even profitable investments difficult to finance and increase the reluctance of
farmers to take the associated risks.
30.       In the past, the strategy to raise productivity has been to encour-
age the use of modern inputs--HYV seeds, fertilizer and irrigation. Although
some farmers have adopted the use of these inputs, many have not, and overall
yields have remained low. To redress this situation and to raise foodgrain
production in the short run, emphasis needs to be placed on raising yields by
transferring to farmers the knowhow of proven low cost, simple improvements.
This can be achieved by improvements in agricultural extension methods.
However, such improvement needs to be backed by an effective and responsive
adaptive research program. The Government of Madhya Pradesh has recognized
the advantages of this approach and has decided to reorganize and improve the
extension service and the adaptive research program in a larger area of the
State. The proposed project is aimed at assisting the Government in this
task.
Previous Bank Group Operations in Madhya Pradesh
31.       The Bank Group has been involved in the agricultural sector in
Madhya Pradesh through four previous IDA credits. Credit 391-IN (US$33.0
million), approved in June 1973, was to assist in financing on-farm invest-
ments in minor irrigation and land levelling. Although there were initial
delays in implementing the project, its progress has been satisfactory over-
all. The credit was originally designed to provide US$31.5 million for minor



- 10 -
irrigation investment and US$1.5 million for land levelling. However, credit
demand for land levelling under the project was slow and most farmers carried
out these activities with family labor. Consequently, US$1.2 million of
unutilized funds were transferred to minor irrigation where demand was strong
and the credit was subsequently completely disbursed. Credit 522-IN (US$16.4
million), approved in December 1974, supports development of dairy cooperatives
in rural areas involving some 160,000 farm families throughout the State.
Following initial delays in staff training at the National Dairy Development
Board, which was also training staff under similar projects in Rajasthan and
Karnataka, good progress is being made. At last supervision of this project,
110 new cooperatives had been established; design studies for plant construc-
tion completed; contracts for livestock had been placed; and technical service
improvements were in progress. Credit 562-IN (US$24 million), which was
approved in June 1975, is designed to improve the efficiency of water util-
ization in the command area of the Chambal river and bring additional areas
under irrigation. The project also includes an extension component which has
been successfully implemented and which has pioneered the way for this and a
series of other extension oriented projects aimed at increasing yields through
improving farmers' basic cultural practices. Finally, Credit 609-IN (US$4
million), approved in February 1976, is a technical assistance credit to
assist in laying the groundwork for developing Madhya Pradesh's forestry
resources. It includes studies to identify a sound resource base for pulp
and paper manufacture and related industries, to develop suitable logging
systems and to determine the optimal use of existing wood resources in the
southern region of the State. Implementation of this project is satisfactoryO
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The project was prepared by a Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP)
working group assisted by Bank staff during 1975. It was appraised by IDA in
October 1976. The Appraisal Report No. 1442a-IN, dated May 2, 1977, is being
distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 29
to April 4, 1977. The negotiating delegation for India was headed by Mr. V.
Nayyar, Director, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India.      A
credit and project summary is attached as Annex III, and a supplementary
project data sheet is attached as Annex IV.
33.       The proposed project is directed towards achieving, in the short
term, sustained growth in agricultural output, particularly foodgrains, in
15 1/ of the 45 administrative districts in the State of Madhya Pradesh,
covering approximately 7 million hectares of cropped land. Project emphasis
would be on reorganizing and strengthening the State's extension services and
reorienting research to provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis,
with advice on farming practices having an immediate impact on yields.
1/   There would in effect be 16 project districts as one administrative
district would be divided into two project districts because of its
large size.



- ii -
34.       Tlhc proposed project would be executed over a five-year period.   It
includes:
-    reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension
through the provision of additional staff, training facilities,
housing, offices, equipment and transportation;
-    upgrading and reorienting agricultural research, including
adaptive research in five regional research stations and seven
sub-stations through the provision of staff, housing, laboratory
facilities, equipment and vehicles; and
-    provision of staff and equipment to evaluate and monitor project
progress.
Project Implementation
35.       The Agricultural Production Commissioner has overall responsibility
for agriculture in lladhya Pradesh. Under him the Department of Agriculture,
headed by the Director, is responsible for agricultural extension. It would
therefore, not be necessary to establish any new organization for project
implementation. Similarly, the overall responsibility for agricultural
research in Madhya Pradesh lies with the Vice-Chancellor of the Jawaharlal
Nehru Agricultural University (JNAU). Under him the Director of Research of
JNAU would be responsible for implementing the research component of the
project. He would be assisted in this task by Associate Directors of Research
located at each of the five regional research stations.
36.       Coordination between extension and research would be ensured
through a Project Coordinating Committee, as well as a Central Planning
Committee to be established under the project (see Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement). The Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the Agricultural
Production Commissioner, would meet as often as necessary to review extension
proposals and would be responsible for ensuring co-operation among various
government organizations and JNAU. It would include the Project Director, as
well as the relevant officials at the Secretary and Director level concerned
with agricultural development, including the Vice-Chancellor of the JNAU.
The Project Director would act as the Committee's Secretary. At the
operational level, the Central. Planning Committee chaired by the Director
of Agriculture and comprising the Director of Research, Project Director, head
of the evaluation unit and other divisional and district extension and research
officers concerned would be responsible for reviewing seasonal extension and
research results including, in particular, field trials and demonstrations. It
would also review and approve future research and extension programs as approved
by regional planning committees (see para 37), assess input and credit supply
requirements of extension programs and generally review overall progress. The
Project Director, who is a member of the Central Planning Committee, would be
responsible for bringing to the attention of the Project Coordinating Committee
the detailed implications of future credit and input requirements.



- 12 -
37.       Regional Planning Committees, chaired by Senior Divisional Joint
Directors of Agriculture, would be established at each of the existing regional
research stations within the project area (see para 40). The committees would
meet as often as necessary with regional staff concerned to review and formu-
late qxtension and research programs and submit proposals for approval of the
Central Planning Committee (see Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement).
Agricultural Extension
38.       Under the project, the state's agricultural extension system would
be strengthened to ensure maintenance of the existing single line of command
from the Director of Agriculture down to the village level extension worker
and the farmer in the field. Such a line of command is an essential prere-
quisite for the successful transfer of the new extension methodology to
ultimate beneficiaries.   To ensure efficient and speedy delivery of extension
advice to farmers, each of the 15 administrative districts under the proposed
project would be organized into 50 subdivisions, headed by newly appointed
Sub-Divisional Extension Officers. Each subdivision would be staffed by 10-12
Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO) and 70-80 village level extension
workers (VLW). Based on an average of one VLW to every 600 farm families,
3,500 VLW would be required to cover 2.1 million farm families located through-
out the 15 districts covered by this project. However, the actual number
of farmers covered by a VLW would range from 400 to 800 farmers depending on
population density and distances involved. Presently, approximately 3,250 of a
total staff of about 5,000 necessary for extension work in the project area are
in position. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that incremental
extension staff required under the project would be appointed according to a
schedule agreed with the Association (see Section 2.08 of the Project Agree-
ment).
39.       VLW engaged in extension work would be specifically trained to pro-
vide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with up-to-date advice on
improved farming practices suited to their specific conditions. In order to
operate more efficiently, each VLW would divide the group of 400-800 farmers
he covers into eight smaller groups of 50 to 100 farmers, the actual number
varying according to population density and distances involved. From within
each group, VLW would select 8-10 contact farmers in consultation with the
farmers themselves. Selection would be from among farmers of all categories
who are willing to adopt the new extension methodology. The VLW would visit
each group once every fortnight on a fixed day of the week. At each location,
he would work primarily through the contact farmers. In the morning he would
tour the farmers' fields and in the afternoon he would hold a meeting in the
village at a predetermined hour. The VLW in turn would meet with his super-
visor, the AEO, once every fortnight to learn the recommended practices to be
transmitted to farmers during the next two weeks and to bring the AEO's atten-
tion to special problems encountered by farmers. At these meetings the AEO
would be supported by the SMS and by the staff of research stations.



- 13 -
Agricultural Research
40.       The extension service would be kept up to date through a reoriented
and expanded research effort. Research results would be transmitted to the
extension system through central planning and regional coordinating committees,
as well as through staff training programs (see para 42). Equally important,
there would also be a reverse flow from the extension service to the research
organizations of information about practical problems encountered by farmers.
The Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University (JNAU) at Jabalpur is the princi-
pal institution responsible for research in Madhya Pradesh. Under it, six
agricultural colleges, located in different regions of the State, also carry
out adaptive research on the principal food crops grown within their agro-
climatic zones. The project would strengthen the University's research cap-
ability with emphasis on finding practical answers to farmers' problems,
particularly of rainfed crops. It would focus on the principal crops and
concentrate on developing improved cultural practices. Attention would be
paid to soil and water management, especially in those areas which are sea-
sonally flooded, and to the development of improved farm implements, farming
systems and cropping patterns. JNAU would be required to submit its annual
research programs to IDA for review and comment (see Section 2.09 of the
Project Agreement).
41.       Under the proJect the research effort would be decentralized. Five
existing agricultural college research stations presently located in different
agroclimatic zones would be developed as Regional Research Stations. Each
Regional Station would be responsible for research on the main crops grown in
its agroclimatic zone. In addition, seven out of 16 existing substations
currently associated with the agricultural colleges, would also be strengthen-
ed with additional staff and facilities to carry out work in different agro-
climatic zones. Under this arrangement all the main agroclimatic zones in
the project area would be covered. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the incremental research staff required would be appointed according to
a schedule agreed to with the Association (see Section 2.08 of the Project
Agreement). Furthermore, land and facilities would be made available to each
of 26 Government-owned seed farms located throughout the project area for the
purpose of carrying out adaptive field trials. Funds would also be provided
under the project to enable trials to be conducted on farmers fields. One
research agronomist would be seconded to each district from the University to
guide and supervise this work. The project would provide the necessary
infrastructure, equipment and incremental operating costs of establishing and
strengthening research stations and experimental farms.
Staff Training
42.       The project would emphasize training to upgrade the quality
of extension and research staff. AEO are usually direct recruits from col-
leges. VLW are generally secondary school leavers, recruited after a two
year pre-service course at one of the Agriculture Department's five training
centers. There is very limited in-service training for VLW and AEO to keep



- 14 -
them abreast of more recent technological advances. The project would upgrade
.he five existing training centers to provide pre-service training for future
VLW, upgrading courses for old VLW and short-term training courses for field
staff. Fortnightly training on the job of VLW by AEO and SMS, and training of
AEO and SMS two days each month by district and research station staff, would
also be provided. In addition, once every three months, a two-day training
session would be provided for all VLW and AEO at sub-division level at which
overall project progress would be reviewed and during which participants would
be exposed directly to research and subject matter specialists of various
disciplines.
43.       Furthermore, prior to each of the two main agricultural seasons,
rabi and kharif, a 3-4 day seminar for SMS, training officers and senior
extension staff would be held in each agroclimatic zone. The seminars, held
at Regional Research Stations, would discuss research results affecting crops
grown within the division, finalize crop recommendations and adaptive research
plans. Members of the Central Planning Committee would join the seminars on
the last day to review and sanction these plans.
44.       The project would also provide fellowships, short-term training
courses and scholarships for career advancement training of a few SMS, AEO and
VLW. Research staff would benefit through the provision of five fellowships
annually, for periods of up to six months, to permit scientists to visit key
institutions in India to keep abreast of developments that would be useful to
their disciplines.
Housing and Transportation
45.       The proposed extension methodology is based on regular and frequent
farm visits by extension staff. It is, therefore, essential that field staff
of all grades live near their place of work and are sufficiently mobile to
function efficiently. At present, housing available for rent in rural areas
is either limited, or inconveniently located, necessitating reliance on public
transport. Consequently, extension workers spend much of their time travel-
ling. The proposed project would provide for construction of low-cost housing
for about 20% of field staff, and finance the construction of 50 sub-divisional
offices cum training halls, including their equipment and furniture. Assurances
were obtained that by December 31, 1978 GOMP would undertake and complete a
survey to locate sites for offices to be constructed and for housing VLW
(see Section 2.07 (b)) of the Project Agreement). Similarly, to enable field
staff to cover large stretches of rural areas on a given time schedule, it is
essential that they be sufficiently mobile. The project would therefore
provide motor vehicles for supervisory staff at headquarters, district and
sub-divisional levels. Credit would be provided to enable AEO and VLW to
purchase motorcycles and bicycles, respectively. Travelling allowances would
be revised to ensure adequate incentive for the purchase and utilization of
motorcycles and bicycles by field staff (see Section 2.11 of the Project
Agreement).



- 15 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
46.       An essential feature would be the monitoring and evaluation of the
progress and impact of this project. At headquarters level, responsibility
for monitoring would lie with the Agriculture Department's Statistics and
Planning Unit which would be adequately strengthened by the provision of a
Senior Agricultural Economist, farm management and marketing specialists,
and other supporting staff. At district level, an agricultural economist,
supported by statistical assistants, would be located at each district head-
quarters with responsibility for data collection and providing farm manage-
ment advice to extension staff.
47.       The Agricultural Production Commissioner would be responsible for
project evaluation. He would be assisted by local consultants to carry out in-
depth studies on the economic and institutional impact of the project. Because
of the need for uniform procedures for monitoring and evaluation of this pro-
ject, as well as of other extension and research projects, detailed procedures
are currently being worked out by GOI and the Association. These are expected
to be mutually agreed between GOMP and the Association by December 31, 1977.
Thereafter, the results of monitoring and evaluation would be submitted to the
Association for review at least once a year (see Section 2.10 of the Project
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$20.9 million,
including about US$0.8 million of duties and taxes. The principal components
net of contingencies are: strengthening of extension services (US$12.2 mil-
lion), upgrading training centers (US$0.3 million), adaptive research (US$4.4
million) and monitoring and evaluation (US$0.4 million). Physical contingen-
cies average about 3.5% for all items (US$0.7 million), and price contingencies
account for 17% (US$2.9 million). The latter is due primarily to the civil
works component (US$3.6 million) for which the annual price escalation has
been estimated at around 7% for the year 1977 and 8% for the period thereafter.
49.       The civil works component of the project (US$3.6 million) covers
the provision of new housing for VLW and limited housing for district level
staff, as well as buildings required for offices, training and research
work. The employment of additional extension and research staff, as well as
the upgrading of existing cadre, would involve incremental salaries which
together with travelling allowances for extension work account for US$9.3
million. Incremental operating expenditures for research stations, offices and
vehicles account for US$4.7 million and local training for US$0.5 million. The
balance of total project costs of US$20.9 million would be taken up by motor
vehicles (US$1.1 million), motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.5 million), scientific
equipment (US$0.6 million) and other equipment and furniture (US$0.6 million).
50.       The proposed credit of US$10.0 million would cover about 50% of
project costs net of duties and taxes. The credit would cover all foreign
exchange costs (approximately US$1.2 million), plus US$8.8 million of



- 16 -
local costs. The remaining local costs would be financed by the Government
of Madhya Pradesh. The proceeds of the credit would be channelled through
GOI to GOMP on standard terms as part of central assistance provided to
State Governments for development purposes. Details of cost estimates and
financing are given in Annex Ill.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Contracts for civil works (US$3.6 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association. Civil works contracts would be small and spread geograph-
ically and over time, and would not be suitable for international competitive
bidding. There are numerous qualified local contractors to ensure satisfactory
execution of this component of the project. About 100 motor vehicles of var-
ious types (US$1.1 million) would be required under the project. These would
be purchased in small quantities as required over five years.     In the interest
of ensuring adequate maintenance and spares, they would be procured by Local
competitive bidding under procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
Scientific equipment (US$0.6 million) ior research stations would involve many
small contracts from various supplieLS of specialized items. International
competitive bidding would, therefore, ti,'t- be practical.  As most of the world's
leading manufacturers of scientific equLipment are rl:;resented in India, are
competitive, and could offer local maintenance service. these items would be
obtained under the GOMP's normal procurement procedures w,ich are satisfactory,
utilizing local competitive bidding where appropriate. OtJ-ers for purchase of
other equipment and furniture (US$0.6 million) would be bulked wherever possi-
ble and purchased following satisfactory local uormpetirLve Lidding procedures,
except where valued at less than US$50,000, when they would b. urchased by
prudent shopping.   Motorcycles and bicycles (US$0.5 million) '1.1wlLd be locally
purchased by individual staff, according to their nreference-;.
52.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 80% of the
cost of local staff training, locally procured equipment, vehicles and civil
works; and 45% of incremental staff costs for extension and research. No dis-
bursements would be made against operating expenditures for research stations,
offices, and vehicles as these would be difficult to identify for purposes of
disbursements documentation. To help expedite disbursements, disbursements
against expenditures for locally procured items costing Rs 20,000 or less,
against civil works contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding
Rs 50,000, and against incremental staff costs for extension and research,
and local staff training would be on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
The supporting documentation would not be submitted for review but would be
retained for inspection by review missions. There is provision for periodic
local auditing of these certificates of expenditure. Disbursements against
all other items would be fully documented.
Economic Benefits and Risks
53.       The main project benefit would be an increase in yields as a conse-
quence of the impact of the new extension and research system. Small farmers
with limited financial resources but excess labor would be the primary bene-
ficiaries of the project's emphasis on efficient use of existing resources.



- 1 7 -
54.       Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is
difficult since the expected benefits of improved agricultural practices,
which also require additional inputs, cannot be attributed solely to exten-
sion and research. Moreover, there is not enough experience in Madhya Pradesh
to estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is
no doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization
of resources which would be brought about by the project, would generate a
high rate of return. The principal economic benefit of the project would
be an increase in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains. Given
the present cropping pattern (paddy 15%, wheat 20%, pulses 25% and other
lower valued cereals 40%), it would be reasonable to expect that by Year 7
crop yields over at least 50% of all cropped land, would increase by 25 kg per
hectare or by less than 4% over the "without project" situation giving an
economic rate of return of 50%. Given the performance of the new extension
service elsewhere in India, there is little risk these yield increases would
not be attained, since the best farmers in Madhya Pradesh already obtain
nearly twice current average yields, while on research stations substantially
higher yield levels than these are achieved. This high rate of return should,
however, be treated with caution since, as improved agricultural practices
spread, further investments in infrastructure and services would become
necessary.
55.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient organi-
zation and management of extension and research services, as well as on
farmers' response. Experience with ongoing projects (see paragraph 25) has
already demonstrated, however, that the new system can work efficiently in
formulation and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. The proposed
project is different from the ongoing activities in that it mainly concentrates
on rainfed, rather than irrigated, areas and for this reason there is a some-
what higher degree of risk concerning achievement of yield increases. However,
there are a significant number of improved practices and research findings
suitable for dissemination which can substantially improve yields, even under
rainfed conditions. Furthermore, farmers in rainfed areas tend to be less
affluent and in greater need of technical advice. Thus, even though benefits
may be lower in rainfed than in irrigated areas, these would still be consider-
able, both in economic and social terms. A second generation risk would be
faced when the success of the new methodology generates demand for additional
inputs. If this were not met, the resultant farmer frustration could adversely
affect the success of the extension effort. However, at this juncture and for
some time to come, the deficiencies in the existing network for supplying
farmers' inputs are related to the lack of demand and there is slack in the
network which can be taken up to meet additional demand. The Project Co-
ordination Committee, which is charged with overseeing the planning and exe-
cution of the extension effort, is also responsible for assessing seasonal
input requirements and should be able to ensure the development of arrangements
capable of coping with increased demand.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Inter-
national Development Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the State of Madhya Pradesh, the Recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed
Development Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV.
58.       An additional condition of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be the execution of the Project
Agreement.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
May 2, 1977



o   aa
o  -e-eWisa-
- 
*  S S ~ ~ ~ ~ - 
to  C  COO  Cit  CC                                     0  C  C  C~~~~~~~W
_a I I0                                                      cIA                                  I
o  7s                        a.                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m m ~ 74  ZA   DO
2  0-I                                                              .05            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-0  , 
o  -.                                                                                3~~~~~~~~~~~~w  g- W  ,W.0Z 
4.3  .a 50  C  C~~~0  ftftQC.A  S  .0.0-c  OUt  or  coo  . . .  . .  .c  ccc  =  co  c  c  .  -  c -- -  0  W c
C  earN  C  CC  C  Eta  'C T`-  p-  ws0nat.' I
UJ  SIc  C  MC  CMOU, s~~~~~~s  ..,r-  n-N c-  oo  -,  ~~~~~U'  esIta  04  ..  -. Il'f7t  C 7Ut  I
Li  0- SM  Ut ~ O ftp-  21 MsU  N  2U  0   CU
51 o                                                   O.                                      N -rtC  1M 4W  I,W
I-SIM  I                                                                                S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b  0  ra
Silk  '                ci  017 0' 0im                         I                                  I
565  CI           -.I-l                                -5-4                         S~~~~~~~~~~., -W   m  LW  L 1 ~ W  . 
Elm  -I                                                                             S~~~~~~~~o.~; a x w =  Z r  w x' . 1 
aCI    6 Ic   a- CC   M4 t0 C r:   CtU Z.  It Z* Ia  Sm  a *  CCC C)0 Cs,C      s0  cZc  *  C- :0 o MiCa
W*I w.-w             0             .u  .-. W-.       . 
t  0S   *-.  Oft  0   -~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                    ~ W  Vi"0I~   . ~ 701 0 3I  :::  . Wp  . . a   .uS  N  I.3- W -3  - 6
43  !.  ---C     - - -U- a0                                                                  -   g: " 
*j  -u                                  NtI
a.    O&t                                                                                U.



ANNEX I
page 2 of 4
NOTES
Ilnieso otherise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 196, for 1970 betwee             1968 and 1970 end for Most Recen.t tEtisoate b.etwe
1973 ad 1975.
00 Branil baa been     elected -asn objective coutry becasan of its aine end comparable problena of regional ioequality
INDA           1960     /    1951-61 average,      /b  1951-60;      Ic  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 aod ove      to labor force age 15 ood ovr,
id  Regiatered applicante for work;        /c  1962;     /f  Registered, not all practicing to the ....try;          La  1ncluding
niWiee;     lb   1959;     /i  1960-62.
1979     Ia  Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 and ever to labor force age 15 sod ever;            lb   1967-68.     /c   Including nidwive;
/d 1967.
MOST RECENT ESTlPAIKT      /s   1971;     lb  Ratio of pepolotion under 15 and 65 and eve       to  abor force age 15 and over;        /c  1976;
Id  Inoluding midwives;       Ia  1969-71 averge;       /f   Population 10 yeara aed -nr
INDONESIIA     1970     I    1961-71,     /b  1971.     /c  including nidwiee;        /d  Total hospital beds ircoeplete.
PHrLIPPIPES     1970    IA.a percentage of esployneet,          lb  Nat including private voctional enboola.
BEAST!.       1ISM      /    Economically active popolation;       /b   Hospital personne.l.     Ic  Incide only.
RIO, April 16, 1977
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATODRS
Land Area (thou he )                                                                    Population per nrigperson - Populatto          di-ided by coole    of poacti-
Total -Total surface area      -uprioisg land are.aend Inland waes                         ing note and focale graduote     uss     "traaoed- or "certified`
Acric. -Most recent itimate of egeiculturo1 area used temporarily cr                      nures    on. .d auciliary per os..  oa th training or enperience
per.nanetly nor crops, paocurea, merhet & kitchen gardens or to ie.                   Populat-un Per- hupital bed - RoPolotion d-vidod by n..ober of hospital
folloc.                                                                                 beds avilable in publIc and prinate goneral and speialised hospital
and  -esiialsotr,ecoenr-neg hone                        and estabieh..tett
GiP Per-  oplt,, IllS) - GNP Per   apfl t  estinatos a tourroor market prires,            for cctdti Ied pectv             ae
caI.lculatd by  ae     nvoso     method as World Bosh Atlas (1973-75 basis),          per capita sorely of caoisA oi revoir-mnta) - Ccypted f..e
1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                                                               ene rgy equivalent of net food soypli-n avilable in coun try Per capita
Per- day; available aupp1ies cnpriae do..eotic productuon, teport le..
Peoaisand octal stt.istic                                                           ep...rt,, an  chaie    is stoch; net suppii- occlude aoinal feed, seeds,
Popullso       (i-r   niio)- As of J.1y fleet;         if nut avilable,                   quantities used io food proccesaiog and beans c    in distribution, require-
*average of twa end-year estinates; 1960, i97i and 1975 data.                            .nestcerte.tinated by PAl based on pby-luig-caI needs for noral
activity ad"health ccnsid-r tg evrnealtmsperature, body weights,
Poceio  iotty    rsur      km - Mid-year   .poplation Pe- squsre kilo-            aondscdiettbuions            .f population, sod a1lnaing lOt futcaste
eae-   fl   bnars o:l . f' talre,at hoase]hoid level
Population deceity v-pa    s   are km of antic, land - Conputed as above fur            Per caia     upe   o   protein (grase  per day) - Protein cunteot of pen
agricultural1 land only,                                                                caia     e  sply of food P.r- day, net uappiy of food -c de coda
above, reqotr-nnefr        l nt     rie   etabliahed by USDA Euo-oni
Vltai statuotans                                                   issearob~~R ... -  Service  provide foe a. niiumaioaceo    60 genao
Crude birth rate per tbuuaosd, ava1rage- A.nn-a      ivebirths per.thousa nd              tntai protein par ds, and 70 grams of-asai ed..puls           protein, of
of  idpor  oylatun  tn-ea  a ioeicavrenaeuing           n19iad                hbich 10 grams  hbuld be ocicat pretni;teeoadrae                   ber
1970,ad          _eyear ae-rge ending in 1975 for amot recen     astleee.               IIan ihose of 75 grama It toca; protein end 23 grams of seinal protein
Crude death rate netI .bousnd, seerea_-Aena...I deaths per thousa.nd of mid-              as as averge for the world, ProPosed by PAl in the Third World Fond
yoat populatin      sc-yaat arithmetic avera ges ending in 1960 and 1970 and            lursey.
ne_-yr averge       ending lv 1975 for ens crec...t estimate.                        Per capit    la prtenauoy iro    aeimal and pulse - P-atnin aupply of fuod
Infant -Irtaitte rte i/thou) - Annua       deaths of mi.fats andar ann year               derived from a~.nin  la nd pulse .  o gro     otdy
of aic par th_oaud Jt_e hibe                                                          loath rate (/tbau) anno i-b - Annualdnatbs pert'hounand to 00 greup
Lieneeta  ' t birth (era) - Averge nuoher of years of iife renain-                 1-4  -rear, to childran in thus agegfroup, scggeorted aanIndicator of
leg at birth, usually fiv-your      -v-rgee   -oding in 196i01I970 and                  malnu'tritio..
1975 for developIng c.untria
Iruis repro,duction tae-Average socke       of live daughter    awesill                Edocation
berin hernoralra,rd-ctle period if ehe ampe,ie..ced          present age-          Adjutep    otilet     ratio-   eroryahc          - iro1lont of all_ogena
scti fotulity ratces  usually_fveyer avrage         ending is 16,prcedntage cprinary scola.oplto;anidncil                                              ce
19710 and 1975 fur davlopini cou ntries                                                 6-Il year   but adjucted fur dafferot lengtha cf primary educaic-n;
,Popultias greuth rate It) - total - Cnopound annua       growth rates of mid-            forIcuntrino with uncra          ducati-n, enrollment nap ....eed lIlt
year population for 1950-60, 1961-7i and 1970-75.                                       since vo.e pupils are hems or above the official ochuol age.
Ppatuarceth rate It) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                Adutdselmn             aio1  - secndary school - Computed a       above,
Ppopulation, differnot deftuttiu.. of urban arose maY effect canpara-                   secondary edcatti     reqoui-e at lea..i four ynara of approvd primary
bilityof data among c_ntr,i-a                                                           icetrction, provides g        Dir vocilona" or, Iac.her training
Urbn ppultio  (7 of totl  - Ratio of urban to total populatiun;                     inuteunri..e fuIuis        f      o 17yers     fa0ge; correpondence
diffceret definitiona of urban areas may affeot coparahility of data                    onuse       aregenrally eucluded.
amIn~g ....nir ins                                                                    Year   f erheolina provided (first and oocood levels        - Total yeara of
AR aatructur a (ecn)-Child-no (0-lb year), working-age (15-6b year),                       ac.tng.tseodrylvl,vctional instruction may be Pa--
adrtire   165 yearsand ovr) as p--untagss of nid-year population.                    tia1lly or competely ncluded.
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of popwlatien under 15 and 65 and over to                  Vocational enrollment    t m   ..c.. nd-ry) - Vocational institutions
those of agss 15 through 64.                                                            include teubnical.   indutiria1 or other programs which operate
icon..mic dependency ratio_-Ratio of popelation ander 15 and 65 and ovr                   ineendently or asdeparinnta         f secndary,institutions.
toth  akr  ocei  ae    rupo    1-6     eas                                     Aul    ltrusrae(tc           lterate adults (able to read and unite) a
Pamily p1 enina-ac error       _cumultive,   thou) - Cumlative number of                  Percen..tage of total adult PoPulation aged 15 yecrs and over.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of natie..aI family
planning program since incepiton.                                                     Rouing
Pamily PIlansing - users (7 of married wome) - Percetages of married                    Persons per tune (urban) - Average number of pers-n pee men. in
uenochild-bearing age (15-44 yers       who us   birth-control devices             occupied conventional ,'wllingn in urban era,dwellings eaclude
to all married womn is same age group.                                                  son-perma nentetructurut I'd unoctupled parts.
Occupied d-lana      withoc piped watr(7.) - iccupied convetio...l
tEpl.yment                                                                                dwellings in urban and rural a reas without innide or outside piped
Total labor force (thousand) - Eounamical ly active persona,       nclding                uater fa-cilities as P-nc-vafe of all ocoypied dwellings.
armed forcea and unaplayed but seclu.ding bhus-ives, studencts, etc.;                 Access to electricity Ct of all dwe1ilgsg) - Conventional daellings
defini tions in v-nio.... coutries are set comparable,                                  with electricity in living qcarters us percect of total dwellings in
Lahor force in agiculture () - Agricultural labor farce (in farming,                      urban and rua-    aes
forestry, butin     and fishing) as percentage of.total lfbar forte.                  Ra..raidoelinas nconnected to nlectricity (%) - Computed aa ahove for
UnnolvdI        flke      ec)-Ueployed are usually d          efj. 1 innd anrural dwelling                  only.
persons abc aeable end willing totasajb, nuDo.                 jab e 
gicen dy, remained out of a Job, amd seking woektfor a seifie                          oemte
inkicna  period nut e..ceed ing one ... k; nay not be comparable between              iadio receivers (per thou pa,p) - All typea of receivers far radio kroad-
nouserileo due to different definitions of unemployed and sourc of                     cate to general publi.     Der th-asnd of popalation, encludes
data    , e.g, noplaYment office statistics, sample surveys, coepu1l..ry                unlicen...d recavers    : uc _ot-i    and in years when regiatratioc of
ucempioposni insurance.                                                                 radio sets was iu sff ct; doso for recet yeta may not be ceeparable
Inco.e Dietribution                                               ,.:~~  ~~~~~~~~~ince oc  coastunrIce .csibdicn g
incse  tetihuiun- percentage of private inuoee (both in cas       and              Pseeros(p-r thou p,p] - Pacse                   nnctrs         oterut
bind)frreneivdlby richest St. richest Sit, poorest 20t, and po-es-satn                           lessthan:a6h      pnac, ecu-od        - amuaces,r herss      .c
ot hof buebaa.                                                                         m ilitarY v   cl-o
Electricity (khub/o   per cap) - Annual c-suptcon of industrial, con-
Distribution of land    -.nrehip - Percentages of lend ownd by       ealithinsi           -erial, ;,ublic and private.loctri_cty in kiilo..att houra pee capita;
lOt and poorsat lOt of land ownrs,                                                      generally base.d on p-nd-cti- data, without a11owence for lass.es in
Illlth and N trilio,                                              ~~~~~~~~~~grids but allowing for imparts and onporte of electricity.
Health and Nutrition                                              Newanr~~~~~~~~~~~~.....int (ku:/er per cap) - Per capita. annual o.nnemtino  in kilograms
Population per physic ian - Population divided by number of practining                    esttmated from dos-t-c production plus net importa of newsprint.
physiciens qualified from a eadical school at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
NC   I0E DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1975    USS t50
GROSS NATIOlAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76                                                     ANNAL NATE OF GROWT   N. onstant prices)
US$ Bln.        Ss                                      1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prioes             82.8        100.0                                          3.8                 3.7                 2.6
Gro:: Domestio Investment       46.7          20.1
Gross National Saving            16.0         19.3
Current Account Balance         -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                     -1-5         -1.8
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor oost)           Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
US# Bin.                               Mil                        t      o National Average
Agriculture                      24.5             46.6               130.0    72.1            188            64
Industry                         11.8             22.3                20.2    11.2            582           199
Services                         16.3             1 10.2                      16.7            5A2           186
Total/average                    52.6            100.0                180.4   100.0           292           100
GOVERNlE1 T FINANCE
General Government Al                                    Central Government
(Rs. Blnl       9          of GD?P                     R  .                  % of GDP
1975/76       1975776   1973/74-1975/76                1975/76       1975/76    1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                  133-34         18.5          16.7                      79.11          11.0          9.8
Current Expenditures              118.77         16.5          1 5.                      7005            9.7          88
Current Surplus/Defioit            14.57          2.0           1.4                       9.06           1.3          1.0
Capital Expenditures  */           54-27          7.5          6.2                       40-75           5.6          4.6
External Aasistance (net)          13.89          1.9           1.3                      13.89           1.9          1.3
MONE. CREDIT AND PRICES                  1965/66   .19117      1972/7S    19Ti/74    1974/75   1975/76     September 1975    September 1976
Billion Rs outBtandin   at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                      61.4      122.4      142.2      169.1      187.2      213.6          199.0            238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector               40.8       69.0      82.5       92.9       102.6     108.5          112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Seotor              28.1       64.4       76.o       90.1      109.5     134.2          106.0             145.8
(Percentage or Index Nubers)                       Jamnay 1976       January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          24.0       26.4       27.9       27.1      26.2       27.9
Wholesale Prioe Index
(1961/62 = 100)                        131.6     188.4      207.1      254.2      313.0      302.8          290.0             320,5
Annual pereentage changes ins
Wholesale Prioe Index                       7.7        4.0        9.9      22.7        25.1                                       10.5
Bank Credit to Publio Sector               12.9       21.3       19.6      12.6       10.4        5.7                              4.7
Bank Credit to Private Seotor              12.8       13.6      18.0        18.5       21.5      22.5                             24.6 A/
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period oovered.
/ Quick Estimates.
!/ Computed fro, trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
Al Transfers between Center and States have been notted out.
A/ All loan   and advances to third parties have been netted out.
N/ Net bank credit to Goverrment Sector.
&' Bank Credit to Commercial Seotor.



ECOX(M(IC DEVELOPHENT DTA                                                  ANNEX I
_L                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of4
BAiANCE OF PAYMENTS               1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77 h/           mCENISE DEORTS (AVERAGl 1973/74-1975/76)
TuSS xil ioT                                                          U   lln.       %
Exports of Goods                    3,259       4,174        4,555        5,400               Sugar                      342          9
Imports of Goods                  -3,971       -5,794       -6,085       -5,850               Jute Manufactures          317          8
Trade Balanoe                     -  732       -1,620       -1,550         -450               Tea                        249          6
NFS (nat) an/                       n.-.         n.e.         a            n.                 Cotton Textiles            413         10
Iron Ore                   206          5
Resource GaP                        n.a.         n.a.         e.g.        n.b.                Engineering Good           391         10
Others                   2.071         52
Interest Payments (net)     i     -  233        - 260        - 250        - 280               Total                    3,989        100
Other Faotor Payments (not)          n.a.        n.S.         n.a.        n.a.
Net Transfers  _/                   n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Balance on Current Accounts          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.aE.               TI9URAL EM. ARCH 31. 1976
US8 Billion
Official Aid
Disbursements                   1,249        1,766       2,326       2,050                Repayable in foreign ourrenc          12.3
Amortization                    - 459       - 519        - 516       - 560                Repayable throu6b export of gooda      0.7
Transactions with IMF                 75          515          205       - 365                Total Outatanding and Disbursed       13.0
All Other Items                       205           so         559       1,100                VWBU SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77        15.5  percent
Increase in Reserves (-)            -105           58        - 794      -1,495
Gross Reserves (end year)           1,416        1,378       2,172       3,667                IBBDA     I:,     Denember 31, 1976   tusS ln2
Net Reserves (end year)            1,341          783        1,332       3,202
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Helated Mlaterials
Outstanding and Disbursed           452.7     3208.4
Imports                              720        1,451        1,417       1,625                Undisbuseed                         510.3     1140.5
of whioh- Petroleum                719       1,451        1,417       1,625                Outstanding including
Exports                               20           26           41         n.a.               Undisbursed                         963.0     4348.9
of which: Petroleum                 16          17           22         n.a.
RATs OF ExCHAEGE /
Prior to mid-Deosmber 1971    z   JSS1.00  =  Rs 7.5                                          After end June 1972    t   Floating Rate
Rn 1.00  = US8O.133333                                       Spot Rate March 31, 1976
Mid-Deoember 1971 to              Us81.00  = Rs 7.27927                                                  approx. USS1.00 - Re.   8.80475
end June 1972                  R. 1.00  = UsBO.137376                                                  approx. Re 1.00 = U88   0.113575
_/ Estimated.
i/ Included with 'All other Items'.
j/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exohange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
2/ Inoluding germents.
,/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IFP traneactions) as a pereentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                US$ MillionI/
Credit No.     Year   Borrower         Purpose                      (Net of Cancellation)
BANK    IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                    1,032.5
42 Credits fully disbursed                                            2,271.9
614-IN         1969   India      Tarai Seeds                    13.0      -           3.8
203-IN         1970   India      Punjab Agricultural Credit      -        27.5        8.1
226-IN         1971   India      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr. -        24.4        2.0
242-IN         1971   India      Power Transmission II           -        75.0        7.9
250-IN         1971   India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit  -        35.0        5.3
264-IN         1971   India      Cochin II Fertilizer            -        20.0        0.9
267-IN         1971   India      Wheat Storage                   -         5.0        3.7
789-IN         1971   ICICI      Industry DFC IX                59.0     -            2.3
278-IN         1972   India      Mysore Agricultural Credit      -        40.0        1.9
294-IN         1972   India      Bihar Agricultural Markets      -        14.0       11.3
312-IN         1972   India      Population                      -        21.2        9.1
342-IN         1972   India      Education                       -        12.0       11.3
356-IN         1972   India      IDBI                                     25.0       15.4
377-IN         1973   India      Power Transmission III          -        85.0       35.0
378-IN         1973   India      Mysore Agricultural Markets     -         8.0        7.3
902-IN         1973   ICICI      Industry DFC X                  70.0     -           9.6
390-IN         1973   India      Bombay Water Supply             -        55.0       40.3
392-IN         1973   India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.  -        38.0       13.5
403-IN         1973   India      Telecommunications V            -        80.0       19.2
427-IN         1973   India      Calcutta Urban Development      -        35.0       15.8
440-IN         1973   India      Bihar Agricultural Credit       -        32.0       18.5
456-IN         1974   India      HP Apple Processing & Marketing -        13.0       11.7
481-IN         1974   India      Trombay IV                      -        50.0       24.6
loll-IN         1974   India      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD         52.0     -          41.9
482-IN         1974   India      Karnataka Dairy                 -        30.0       29.8
502-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Canal CAD             -        83.0       58.2
520-IN         1974   India      Sindri Fertilizer               -        91.0       37.5
521-IN         1974   India      Rajasthan Dairy                 -        27.7       27.4
522-IN         1974   India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy            -        16.4       16.1
526-IN         1975   India      Drought Prone Areas             -        35.0       30.2
1079-IN         1975   India      IFPCO Fertilizer               109.0     -          90.4
1097-IN         1975   India      Industry DFC XI                100.0     -          67.3
532-IN         1975   India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation      -       45.0       35.1
540-IN         1975   India      ARC Credit                       -       75.0       37.6
541-IN         1975   India      West Bengal Agrc. Dev.          -        34.0       32.0
562-IN         1975   India      Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD    -        24.0       21.5
572-IN         1975   India      Rural Electrification            -       57.0       55.9
582-IN         1975   India      Railways XIII                   -       110.0       50.0
585-IN         1975   India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply      -        40.0       40.0
598-IN         1975   India      Fertilizer Industry              -      105.0       98.0
604-IN         1975   India      Power Transmission IV            -      150.0      150.0
609-IN         1975   India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.     -        4.0        4.0
610-IN         1976   India      Integrated Cotton Development   -        18.0       18.0
616-IN         1976   India      Industrial Imports XI            -      200.0        8.0
1251-IN(TW)     1976   India      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation      145.0     -         145.0
1260-IN         1976   India      IDBI II                         40.0     -          40.0
1273-IN         1976   India      National Seed                  25.0      -          25.0
1313-IN         1976   India      Telecommunications VI           80.0     -          61.8
1335-IN         1976   India      Bombay Urban Transport          25.0    -           25.0
Total                                                       1,750,5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                    782.6     25.9
Total now outstanding                                         967.9  4,086.2
Amount Sold                             111.5
of which has been repaid            111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                967.9  4,086.2
Total undisbursed                                             512.1  1,012.2    1,524.3
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                             Loan     Equity    Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5       -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9       -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4       -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2       -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7      0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8      0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8      1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0      0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0      0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1       3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6       -         6.6
TOTAL                            49.6      8.8      58.4
Less:   Sold                             6.0      1.6        7.6
Repaid                           12.4       -        12.4
Cancelled                         6.2      0.7       6.9
Now Held                         25.0      6.5      31.5
Undisbursed                       5.6       -        5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION- ;
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,524 million as of March 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to com-
mitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. A proposal for a twelfth
loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30. 1981
All equipment for Power Transmission III has been ordered; there
will be a substantial cost overrun due to international price increases, part
of which is being met from Power Transmission IV. For power Transmission IV,
bids for most of the equipment have been invited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975: Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31.
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri project plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by March 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14. 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1. 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31. 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy'Development ProJect; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974: Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December'18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 23, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Twelve states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal]
and three more have applied for participation. The project got off to a slow
start, due principally to the need to adapt specifications and tender documents
to international competitive bidding procedures, but these problems have been
overcome. As of March 31, 1977, contracts with a total value of US$45.6
million had been or were about to be awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine 'optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in
progress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project
are under way.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of 1st April     ; Effective Date:  July 1, 1977
(expected) Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: July 1, 1977
(expected); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1394   GuJarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 22, 1977 (expected); Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected)
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:                 The State of Madhya Pradesh for its agricultural
extension services and its adaptive research
facilities.
Amount:                        US$10.0 million.
Terms:                         Standard.
Relending Terms:               From GOI to GOMP:   As part of Central Assist-
ance for state development projects on terms
and conditions applicable at the time.
Project Description:           The project would finance the consolidation and
strengthening of Madhya Pradesh's agricultural
extension services and help to upgrade and
develop its adaptive research facilities with
the objective of achieving early and sustained
improvements in foodgrain production. The
project components would include:
-    reorganization and strengthening of agri-
cultural extension through the provision
of additional staff, training facilities,
housing, offices, equipment and transport-
ation;
-    upgrading and reorienting of agri-
cultural research, including adaptive re-
search in five regional research stations
and seven sub-stations through the pro-
vision of staff, housing, laboratory
facilities, equipment and vehicles; and
-    provision of staff and equipment to
evaluate and monitor project progress.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Prolect Costs:                                       (US$ million)
Local  Foreign  Total
Extension                  11.8     0.4    12.2
Training Centers            0.3      -      0.3
Research                    3.8     0.6     4.4
Monitoring and
Evaluation                0.4      -      0.4
Sub-Total             16.3     1.0    17.3
Price Contingencies         2.8     0.1     2.9
Physical Contingencies      0.6     0.1     0.7
Total Project Cost      19.7     1.2    20.9
Financing Plan:                                                 (US$ million)
Local  Foreign   Total
IDA Credit                   8.8    1.2     10.0
Government of
Madhya Pradesh            10.9     -      10.9
Total                19.7    1.2     20.9
Estimated Disbursements:        (US$ million)  FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81   FY82
Annual           0.6    2.7    3.4    2.0     1.3
Cumulative      0.6     3.3    6.7    8.7   10.0
Procurement
Arrangements:                All civil works, vehicles, scientific equipment,
other equipment and furniture would be procured
locally. Civil works contracts valued at US$3.6
million would be small, scattered and spread over
time, and would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding. One hundred vehicles valued
at US$1.1 million to be purchased over five years
would be procured from locally manufactured types
already used widely by GOMP to ensure adequate
maintenance and supply of essential spares.
Scientific equipment valued at US$0.6 million
would involve many small contracts from various
specialized suppliers and international competi-
tive bidding would, therefore be impractical.



ANNEX III
Page 3
These items would be procured through local
representatives of leading international
manufacturers who are competitive and provide
adequate maintenance. Other equipment and
furniture valued at US$0.6 million would be
bulked where possible for local procurement
except where valued at less than US$50,000
when they would be purchased by prudent
shopping. All local bidding would be accord-
ing to procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Motorcycles and bicycles valued at
US$0.5 million would be locally purchased by
individual staff according to their prefer-
ences.
Rate of Return:                Over 50%.
Appraisal Report:               1442a-IN, dated May 2, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Less than one year.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The project was prepared by a GOMP Working Group comprising
members from its Department of Agriculture and the Jawaharlal
Nehru Agricultural University with assistance from the Bank
Group.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the first mission
to consider the project
June 1976. October 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 4, 1977.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1, 1977.
Section II     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) GOMP to establish a Project Coordinating Committee at State
level chaired by the Agricultural Production Commissioner to
ensure close cooperation between extension and research (para
36).



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(b) GOMP to establish a Central Planning Committee (CPC) chaired
by the Director of Agriculture which would be responsible for
reviewing seasonal extension and research results and for
considering and approving plans for the coming crop season
(para 36).
(c) Regional Planning Committees to review and formulate extension
and research programs and submit proposals to CPC (para 37).
(d) GOMP to provide low cost housing to enable extension field
staff to live near their place of work and to undertake and
complete a survey to locate appropriate sites by December 31,
1978 (para 45).
(e) To ensure mobility of field staff, GOMP to provide credit facil-
ities to staff on terms that provide sufficient incentive for
staff to purchase suitable means of transportation (para 45).
(f) The execution of the Madhya Pradesh Project Agreement (Condi-
tion of Effectiveness (para 58).



_BRD  2539
v ~~~~~~~--' -eDATTIA
4 S0"             ' o-, D a     U T T A R      P R
C,                                           - .  . , -Cr.'
'?  ---         i' - *' ---  )  - P         R E WA   & ---
4 - 5 W xb, E  - 4 P i - | | 1 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S I D H 9 
r o 9 . ~~                                 r'-                      VA 1f i~ 
2 r m @ x. U J J A I N t5e SheItAUe ' a > H ~~~~~~~~SH AH D OL  ' -- S U R G U A0
s .',                        NDO2                                                 E M A IDAE
0'>   S0ua                                                               ,---r5~~ D E W  AS   _   - X  eMsndl- '00- _  _   l  R A I G A RRHG R
H 4 R                              A                                 S P U
tF ~~~~K H A R G  O N Fi,)figtcrS2
47                                                                           1      >          K ! ' 1   ',
APR  RAOA                                                                   '>  '7 |   r~t_
N~ ~~~~~~      ~  ~  ~  ~ ,' ,o ,_
0~~~~~~~~~~~                         r~~~~~~~~~ 
INDIA .
-7D'                                                             MANDLAILAPRMADHYA  PRADESH  -
oz ,, @ ~AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT wor(
AR. ..                                                             RIR--h SW  1BA S PU R R
A  G- S-k T ......... * Gram  Sevvk  Tro g C.,t.,s                    02'-
'N                                                                 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IRA     A                       ,oD                                                        9'-
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HtJ5..d        - ............... .OOhrlwsSr
~~~~~~~01 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1.   .
\  H A Y  .-2-2 B-oh-N               RESEARC r      ,                R               N e D 2 C 00'
N S f A G A                  I                          0-'                       0
-  9rao  0-"                        1.                                                       N .1 e 



