CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 712 IN
Project Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension
and Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
Dated June 1, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH, acting by its Governor (hereinafter
called Madhya Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herein between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Madhya Pradesh agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Madhya Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreements with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Coordinating Committee" means a committee
comprising the Agricultural Production Commissioner of Madhya
Pradesh (Chairman), the Project Director (Secretary), the Vice
Chancellor of JNAU, the D.rector of Research of JNAU, the Special
Secretaries of Agriculture and Finance, the Secretary of the
Irrigation Department, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, the
Director of Agriculture and representatives of the Apex Marketing
Federation, State Cooperative Bank, State Land Development Bank,
Agro-Industries Development Corporation, and such other persons as
may be necessary;
(b) "Central Planning Committee" means a committee
comprising the Director of Agriculture of Madhya Pradesh
(Chairman), the Director of Research, the Project Director,
divisional and district extension officers, the Associate
Directors of Research, the head of the evaluation unit, and such
other persons as may be necessary; and


﻿-3-
(c) "Regional Planning Committees" means committees having
the Senior Divisional Joint Directors of Agriculture as Chairmen
and comprising Associate Directors of Research, District Deputy
Directors of Agriculture, Subject Matter Specialists, and such
other persons as may be necessary.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Madhya Pradesh shall and shall cause JNAU
to carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity'with appropriate administrative, financial,
agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) For the purposes of coordinating the
activities of various departments and agencies of Madhya Pradesh,
the Borrower and JNAU concerned with the execution of the Project
or any part thereof, Madhya Pradesh shall establish, by
October 31, 1977, or such later date as may be agreed by the
Association, a Project Coordinating Committee. This Committee
shall meet at least once a year.
(b) Madhya Pradesh shall establish the Central Planning
Committee by October 31, 1977, or such later date as may be agreed
by the Association. This Committee shall meet at least twice a
year, inter alia, to review seasonal extension and research
results of the Project and review and approve future research and
extension programs prepared by Regional Planning Committees which


﻿-5-
shall be established by Madhya Pradesh at each regional research
station by October 31, 1977, or such later date as may be agreed
by the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Madhya Pradesh undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Madhya Pradesh to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Madhya
Pradesh shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall and shall cause JNAU
to furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contracts documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Madhya Pradesh shall and shall cause JNAU to: (i)
maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to them by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so made available to them and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.


﻿-7-
(b) Madhya Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by Madhya Pradesh of its
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall ensure that village
extension workers, agricultural extension officers and sub-district
extension officers engaged in extension service will live in the
area assigned for their operations and for this purpose Madhya
Pradesh shall provide such low-cost housing and other buildings as
may be necessary. Such housing and other buildings shall be
constructed in accordance with the design standards established by
Madhya Pradesh for such workers and officers. The afore-mentioned
design standards shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, in
respect of the above housing and offices to be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit, Madhya Pradesh shall, by December 31,
1978, or such later date as may be agreed by the Association,
complete a survey to determine the number and locations of such
housing and other buildings.


﻿-8-
Section 2.08. Madhya Pradesh shall and shall cause JNAU
to appoint adequate incremental extension and research staff
in accordance with the schedule agreed by the Association.
Section 2.09. Madhya Pradesh shall and shall cause JNAU
to furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
semi-annual progress reports of the Project and annual programs
of research for those research stations and sub-stations developed
under the Project in forms satisfactory to the Association for
its review and comments.
Section 2.10. Madhya Pradesh shall carry out continuous
monitoring and evaluation of the Project in such form as shall
be mutually agreed between Madhya Pradesh and the Association
by December 31, 1977, or such later date as may be agreed by the
Association. The results of such monitoring and evaluation
shall be sent to the Association at least once a year.
Section 2.11. In order to ensure the mobility of staff
engaged in extension work under the Project, Madhya Pradesh
undertakes to make available:
(a) to all such staff who are in need of credit for the
purchase of suitable means of transport, such credits, on terms
and conditions which shall be sufficient to create an incentive
for the purchase of such means of transport; and
(b) such financial incentive as is required to ensure
the optimum use of such means of transport.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Madhya Pradesh shall and shall cause JNAU to
maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations and financial condition related to the Project.
Section 3.02. Madhya Pradesh shall and shall cause JNAU to:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Associatiw, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts
r             and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Madhya Pradesh thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Madhya Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
For Madhya Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh
Agriculture Department
Vallabh Bhawan
Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Bhopal


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Madhya Pradesh may be taken or executed
by a Secretary to the Government of Madhya Pradesh or such other
person or persons as Madhya Pradesh shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Madhya
Pradesh, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by Madhya Pradesh pursuant to
any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
By Is/ Kewal Singh
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works and vehicles shall be let on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association. To the extent it may be
practicable to do so, civil works shall be grouped and tenders
shall be invited for every group and each work separately, at
the bidders' option. If no qualified contractor presents a bid for
any such work, it shall be carried out by departmental
construction or the State Housing Board of Madhya Pradesh (force
account).
2.   Contracts for purchase of equipment and furniture shall be
bulked wherever possible and (i) if the value of such equipment
and furniture is estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, it
shall be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procedures of Madhya Pradesh
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) if the value of such
equipment and furniture is estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent it may be procured by prudent shopping through normal
commercial channels.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for vehicles, equipment
and civil work estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Madhya Pradesh shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Madhya
Pradesh shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform
Madhya Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawals of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform Madhya
Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.


