CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 712 IN
Deveilopment Credit Agreemrent
(Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension
and Research Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 1, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1977, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Madhya
Pradesh, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Madhya Pradesh)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Madhya Pradesh the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Madhya
Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Madhya Pradesh" means the State of Madhya Pradesh, a
State of India, or any successor thereof;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and 'Madhya Pradesh of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement; and
(c) "JNAU" means Jawaharlal Nehru Agricultural University,
Madhya Pradesh, and includes any successor thereof.


﻿- 3-.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1987, and ending May 15,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter -to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause Madhya Pradesh to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Madhya Pradesh to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangement for development assistance to the States
of India.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that Madhya Pradesh shall
have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower and Madhya Pradesh.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of Madhya
Pradesh has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Madhya Pradesh, and
is legally binding upon Madhya Pradesh in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. The date August 31, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Officer on Special Duty, Director or Deputy Director of
the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of-Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Kewal S4igh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be financed
(1) Civil works               3,000,000           80%
(2) Locally procured          2,500,000           80%
equipment and
vehicles
(3) Local staff training       .200-,000          80%
(4) Incremental exten-        3,500,000           45%
sion and research
staff cost
(5) Unallocated                 800,000
TOTAL    10,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases
or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,' no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the


﻿- 12 -
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,'
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of sich expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to strengthen the agricultural extension
service and adaptive research facilities in Madhya Pradesh over a
period of five years and consists of the following:
(a) strengthening and consolidation of the agricultural
extension service by Madhya Pradesh through the provision of
additional staff, housing, offices, equipment, transportation and
staff training;
(b) strengthening of applied and adaptive agricultural
research facilities by JNAU through: (i) development and upgrading
of about five existing regional research stations and about seven
sub-stations by farm development, provision of staff, equipment,
hostel accommodation, laboratory facilities and vehicles, and (ii)
provision of about 25 training fellowships for research
scientists; and
(c) monitoring the progress of the Project and ievaluating
its impact by Madhya Pradesh through the provision of staff,
equipment and funds.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1983.


