                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30401

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (CPL-40860 SCL-40870 PPFB-P2540)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21.8 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                                 FOR A

                   MATERNAL HEALTH AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 22, 2005




Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 2004- ICR Mission)

                      Currency Unit = Guarani (PYG)
                              1 PY$ = US$ 0.00016
                          US$ 1.00 = PY$ 5,920.00

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1    December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AIEPI       Atención Integral a Enfermedades Prevalentes en la Primera Infancia
            (Integrated Management of Prevalent Childhood Illnesses -- IMCI)
AIP         Annual Implementation Plan
ARENA       Atención del Recién Nacido (Care for the newborn)
ARI         Acute Respiratory Infections
BCG         Tuberculosis Vaccine
BCP         Paraguy Central Bank (Banco Central del Paraguay)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEBINFA     Centro de Bienestar de la Infancia y la Familia (Family and Child Welfare
            Centers)
CEPEP       Centro Paraguayo de Estudios de Población (Paraguayan Center for
            Population Studies)
CHW         Community Health Worker
CIRD        Centro de Información y Recursos para el Desarrollo (Development
            Information and Resource Center)
CORPOSANA   Corporación de Obras Sanitarias (Water and Sewerage Works Company)
CPPR        Country Portfolio Procurement Review
DGBS        Dirección General de Bienestar Social (Social Welfare Directorate at the
            MSPBS)
DGRH        Dirección General de Recursos Humanos (Human Resources Directorate at
            the MSPBS)
DGSS        Dirección General de Servicios de Salud (Health Services Directorate at the
            MSPBS)
DPE         Dirección de Promoción y Educación (Education and Promotion Directorate at
            the MSPBS)
DPT         Diphtheria, Whooping Couch (Pertussis) and Tetanus vaccine
ENDS        Encuesta Nacional de Demografía y Salud (Demographic and Health Survey)
ENS         Encuesta Nacional de Salud (National Health Survey)
EPI         Expanded Program of Immunization
FGD         Focus Group Discussions
FOE         Funciones Obstétricas Esenciales (Essential Obstetric Functions)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product

GNP       Gross National Product
HC        Hospital de Clínicas
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Inter-Americano de Desarrollo)
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) (Banco
          Mundial)
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
IES       Income and Expenditure Survey
INVEC     Computerized Inventory System for Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies
IPPF      International Planned Parenthood Federation
IPS       Instituto de Previsión Social (Social Security Institute)
JICA      Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KfW       Kredistanstalf fur Wiederaufbau (Germany's international cooperation agency)
LAC       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCB       Limited International Bidding
MEC       Ministerio de Educación y Cultura (Ministry of Education and Culture)
MEF       Mujeres en edad fertile (Women of Fertile Age)
MH        Ministerio de Hacienda (Finance Ministry)
MIP       Master Investment Plan of an Eligible Health Region
MOF       Ministerio de Finanzas (Ministry of Finance)
MSPBS     Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social (Ministry of Health and Social
          Welfare)
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NCHS      Unites States National Center for Health Statistics
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OBGYN     Obstetrics and Gynecology
OM        Operational Manual
OPCI      Dirección General de Proyectos con Cooperación Internacional (General
          Directorate of Projects with International Cooperation at the MSPBS)
PAHO      Pan-American Health Organization
PAI       Plano Ampliado de Inmunización (Expanded National Immunization Program)
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund financed by the Government
          of Japan
POA       Plan Operativo Anual (Annual Implementation Plan)
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PSM       Proyecto de Salud Materna y Desarrollo Integral del Niño (Maternal Health
          and Child Development Project)
RCO       Regional Coordination Office
RO        Red Obstétrica (Obstetric Network)
SENASA    Servicio Nacional de Saneamiento Ambiental (National Service for
          Environmental Sanitation)
SENEPA    Servicio Nacional para la Erradicación del Paludismo (National Service for
          the Eradication of Malaria
SM

              Sanidad Militar (Military Health Service)
SP            Sanidad Policial (Health Service for the Police)
STP           Secretaría Técnica de Planificación (Technical Planning Secretariat at the
              MSPBS)
TFR           Total Fertility Rate
TOR           Terms of Reference
UMT           Unidad de Medicina Transfusional (Blood transfusion unit)
UNDP/PNUD     United Nations Development Programme (Programa de las Naciones Unidas
              para el Desarrollo)
UNFPA         United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
VAT           Value-added tax
WDR           World Development Report




                       Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                     Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                      Sector Manager      Evangeline Javier
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo

                                           PARAGUAY
                     PY-Maternal Health and Child Development Project


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                    Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  23
6. Sustainability                                                                      24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       25
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     26
9. Partner Comments                                                                    27
10. Additional Information                                                             27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  43
Annex 8. Summary of Post Project Evaluation of the Coverage, Quality and Efficiency    44
In the Delivery of Basic Health Care in Project Areas
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                       62

Project ID: P007927                                                  Project Name: PY-Maternal Health and Child
                                                                     Development Project
Team Leader: Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo                                TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PY-Maternal Health and Child Development                 L/C/TF Number: CPL-40860; SCL-40870;
                            Project                                                                  PPFB-P2540
   Country/Department: PARAGUAY                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (88%); Pre-primary education (8%); Central government
                            administration (4%)
                  Theme: Child health (P); Population and reproductive health (P); Health
                            system performance (P); Decentralization (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/20/1994                                     Effective: 12/05/1996                02/14/1997
     Appraisal: 08/13/1996                                         MTR: 06/15/1999                  01/07/2002
      Approval: 09/05/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY/Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 (Acting) Cristian Baeza                        Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:             Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo                       Sandra Rosenhouse
ICR Primary Author:             Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background. In the mid 1990s, Paraguay's health infrastructure was insufficient and obsolete, reflecting
the lowest GDP per capita investment in the region. As a result, the country substantially lagged behind in
health services coverage, with immunization coverage well below 70 percent in children under 1 year old,
and institutional deliveries at the level of the Andean countries. Paraguay had at the time the second highest
estimated maternal mortality in the region, (350 to 386/100,000 live births). Institutional data from the
Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare (Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social, MSPBS)
indicated that infant mortality was around the Regional average (40.8 per 100,000 life births), and
concentrated around the neonatal period. In contrast, the nutritional status was one of the best of the region
and probably the underlying reason for a relatively low child mortality rate despite the low quality and
accessibility of the health services.

In the decades leading up to the Project launch, investments into health services had not responded to
population growth and internal migration. The existing health infrastructure, particularly in the rural areas,
was insufficient due to the lack of maintenance. The health network did not have a communication and a
transport system making the referral of emergencies extremely difficult. Paraguay was the only country in
the region that did not establish a national cold chain for immunization. Medical personnel were
concentrated in Asunción and surrounding areas, leaving many departments seriously understaffed.
Moreover, most professionals had not received training in over 10 years. Studies of the Pan-American
Health Organization (PAHO) showed that about 37% of the physicians did not diagnose and treat
pneumonia correctly.

Objectives. The Maternal Health and Child Development Project, the first Bank-financed Project in this
sector, was approved by the Board in September 1996. The main objective of the Maternal Health and
Child Development Project was to improve the health status of the underserved Paraguayan population,
particularly women and children (Staff Appraisal Report [SAR] 15610-PA, p. 19). To achieve this
objective the Project was to (a) increase the coverage, quality and efficiency of basic maternal and child
health services in six underserved departments in Northeastern Paraguay; (b) increase the population's
knowledge about adequate health practices; (c) pilot-test a strategy to enhance early child development in
Asuncion; and (d) strengthen management capability of the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare (
Ministerio de Salud Pública y Bienestar Social, MSPBS) in support of an eventual decentralization of
public health services in Project areas (SAR, p. 19). Hence, for the specific objectives (a), (b) and (d) the
Project areas were the country's six most underserved departments in Northeastern Paraguay. The child
development pilot was to be implemented in the low-income areas of Asunción.

Specified targets for the objectives. The Staff Appraisal Report did not specify specific targets for the
impact of the Project but did set quantitative targets for the coverage of the population. The SAR specified
84 indicators (SAR, Annex 8) to monitor and assess the impact of progress for the Project. The most
pertinent impact indicators for the overall Project objective (improvement of the health status of the
underserved Paraguayan population, particularly women and children) are: (i) maternal mortality rate; and
(ii) infant mortality rate. For the Project to have met its development objective, at least a positive trend for
these impact indicators (in the six Project areas) would be expected. While the SAR did not quantify
specific targets for the large number of indicators measuring health service delivery or health knowledge of
the population, the SAR did postulate an ambitious coverage rate for essential mother and child health
services (SAR, p. 20): the total population which was to be covered by the health component was 500,000
(i.e. the poor) out of which 210,000 were estimated as children under five years of age and women of
reproductive age. As shown in Annex 1, Table 4 of the SAR (p. 56), such target implied a 100 percent



                                                      - 2 -

coverage of the poor population, especially women and children, with essential health services by Project
completion. In the selected regions for Project implementation the private sector played (and plays) a very
minor role in service provision so that the specified targets effectively translated into overall population
coverage rates of close to 100 percent.

3.2 Revised Objective:
While the Project activities were substantially restructured in 2001, the original objectives were not
formally revised (compare Section 3.4.).

3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of four components. Component A was the main component, directly addressing
Project objectives (a) and (b), as well as supporting objective (d). Separate components, B, C, and D
addressed the remaining Project goals. The implementation period was estimated at six years. The original
closing date was June 30, 2003. The closing date was extended to June 30, 2004, in recognition of
improved performance following Project restructuring, to finalize some activities and allow for evaluation
of results and orderly closing.

Component A- Maternal and Child Health Care. (US$20.1 million equivalent without contingencies or
74.3 percent of total baseline Project cost as appraised). This component aimed to improve the health
conditions of poor women and children in six of the poorest, predominantly rural, departments in the
Northeast of Paraguay through the following subcomponents:

A.1 Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Infrastructure and Equipment SubProjects (US$11.2 million
without contingencies). This subcomponent aimed to strengthen the delivery of maternal and child health
care services in six targeted departments by improving existing infrastructure and ensuring the availability
of needed equipment and adequate maintenance in regional hospitals and health centers. Financing would
support subProjects involving works, basic medical equipment, communications equipment, vehicles
(including motorcycles), recurrent maintenance costs and training for maintenance staff. New construction
was only to be considered if deemed necessary to improve efficiency of existing infrastructure. A Master
Investment Plan (MIP) was to be prepared for each health region [1] to establish the investment priorities
for subProjects. The Regional Health Council (RHC) was to present subProject proposals annually for
review by Regional Coordination Unit (RCU) before submission to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The criteria for the selection of subProjects were the following:

     l Infrastructure and equipment would be used primarily for maternal and child care;
     l SubProject addressed needs identified during Project preparation and/or by the study of the
           regional health network;
     l SubProject implementation would not exceed 12 months or US$200,000 equivalent;
     l Recurrent costs generated by the investment in excess of 15 percent would require evidence
           of the availability of budgetary funds to cover such costs;
     l SubProjects would provide for maintenance; and
     l The facilities benefiting from the subProject would be adequately staffed.


A.2 Pharmaceuticals and Supplies (US$6.64 million, without contingencies). This subcomponent was to
finance procurement and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies for basic maternal and child
health services in eligible health facilities. Financing was also to be provided to train personnel on the
operation of a computerized inventory system (INVEC) for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. Only the
health facilities with adequate storage space were to be eligible to benefit from this subcomponent.
Procurement of drugs was to be centralized, but to ensure that local needs were met, items were to be



                                                     - 3 -

regionally selected by the health regions from a list of essential drugs.

A.3 Information, Education and Communication (US$1.19 million, without contingencies).                  This
subcomponent aimed to promote preventive health care in the communities served by the Project through a
program of information, education and communication (IEC). The program aimed to inform the population
about the health care services available in the community and promote good health practices. It also aimed
to promote the participation of civil society in the provision and management of health services. The
subcomponent was to finance consultants' services and technical assistance to review the existing
educational materials, define the contents of media messages, and collect information on existing
breastfeeding and weaning practices, child and pregnancy care, attitudes and beliefs regarding disease
prevention, family planning and health promotion. Financing was also to be provided to develop and
disseminate new printed materials and radio messages, and to cover travel expenses of personnel involved
in the program.

A.4 Training (US$1.05 million, without contingencies). This subcomponent aimed to support the design
and implementation of an in-service training program for paramedical and medical personnel (including
managers) to improve their technical competence to provide health care services, health education, detect
health risks, and carry out Project activities. The subcomponent was to finance training and training
materials, as well as an assessment of the training needs of paramedical staff, program follow-up and
evaluation, and travel expenses for trainers and trainees. A competency-based training methodology was to
be used, emphasizing prevention and treatment of key epidemiological problems in each region.
Specifically, training would focus on diagnosis, referral and care of: pregnancy and obstetric
complications, safe delivery, reproductive health and common childhood diseases. Training would also
cover interpersonal skills for relating to patients, community outreach techniques, and -- for administrative
staff -- management and organizational skills. In each region, a Training Action Plan was to guide training
activities. Approximately 80 percent of the funds were to be allocated to train paramedical staff and
community health workers (CHW), and the remainder was to finance training for trainers and other
personnel.

Component B- Early Childhood Development (ECD) Pilot. (US$2.12 million equivalent without
contingencies or 7.8 percent of total baseline Project cost as appraised). Proposed as a pilot Project, the
component was to test a strategy to improve health and psychosocial development of 2-5 year old children
in poor areas of Asunción by establishing early childhood development centers (CEBINFAs) and
strengthening the Social Welfare Directorate's (Dirección General de Bienestar Social, DGBS) capacity
to supervise ECD services and give technical assistance to communities interested in providing these
services on their own. The CEBINFAs were to be located in neighborhoods classified as poor (based on
1992 census indicators of water supply, sanitation and education). The Project was to finance the physical
rehabilitation of up to 40 CEBINFAs, educational materials and supplies, furniture and equipment, training
for care-giving mothers and for managerial staff, and operating costs including three meals a day for
children and stipends for educators. Rehabilitation works were not to exceed US$5,000 equivalent per
center and labor would be provided by the community. The operating costs of the centers were to be partly
financed by the corresponding communities. The stipend for care-givers would be partly financed from
monthly payments made by parents of children served by the CEBINFAs (about US$10.00 equivalent per
month, per child).

Component C- Support for Decentralization. (US$1.20 million equivalent without contingencies or 4.4
percent of total baseline Project cost as appraised). This component aimed to improve the management
capacity of the MSPBS, in preparation for the eventual decentralization of public social services, including
health. The management capacity of health sector staff was to be strengthened at the regional and central


                                                      - 4 -

levels through: (a) staff training; (b) establishment of management information systems; (c) pilot activities
to increase Project sustainability; and (d) financing recurrent costs to supervise maternal and child health
services in the Project areas. Management training would be contracted out to private firms or academic
institutions.

Component D - Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation. (US$3.17 million equivalent
without contingencies or 11.7 percent of total baseline Project cost as appraised). The Project was to be
administered by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), reporting directly to the MSPBS Minister and the
General Directorate of Projects with International Cooperation (OPCI). The PCU was to be assisted by
Regional Coordination Offices (RCOs) established in each region. All Project resources were to be
managed centrally by the PCU, and funds were to be allocated annually to the regions based on Annual
Implementation Plans (Plan Operativo Annual), except for small civil works, goods and service contracts
which were to be procured by the RCOs. Other institutions to be involved in Project execution included:
Regional Health Councils, responsible for setting priorities for investment under Subcomponent A.1; the
Direction of Health Promotion, Prevention and Education, Dirección de Promoción, Prevención y
Educación de la Salud (DPPES), and the Direction of Community Participation, Dirección General de
Participación Comunitaria (DGPC), at the MSPBS, responsible for carrying out Subcomponent A.3; the
general Direction of Health Services, Dirección General de Servicios de Salud (DGSS) and the General
Direction of Human Resources, Dirección General de Recursos Humanos (DGRH) at the MSPBS,
responsible for the implementation of Subcomponent A.4; the General Direction of Welfare, Dirección
General de Bienestar Social (DGBS) at the MSPBS, responsible for the implementation of Component B;
and finally, the Education Ministry, the Ministerio de Educación y Cultura (MEC) was to provide
technical supervision of early childhood stimulation activities under the same component.

The Operational Manual (OM), approved at negotiations, described the objectives, activities, institutional
arrangements, monitoring indicators and implementation targets for each Project component, the functions
and attributions of each entity involved in Project implementation, and the technical, financial and
procurement norms and procedures applicable to the Project.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project was off to a difficult start. By end 1999, the lack of counterpart funding had become chronic
and the Bank considered Project management inadequate. After about sixty months of implementation, only
six percent of the total Project cost had been disbursed. Successive supervision missions identified the
following disconnects between some of the original features of the Project and implementation
arrangements, and the country's situation:




                                                      - 5 -

(i)      frequent changes of the Ministry and PCU staff (four ministers between 1997-2000) had
         weakened the MSPyBS ownership and understanding of the project aims. Furthermore,
         project coordination was poor and the PCU was seen as a separate Ministry by the
         MSPBS's line staff, and contributed little to improve the Ministry's management
         capacity. The MSPBS's National Directorate of Social Welfare, responsible for the
         implementation of Component B, had been substantially weakened by the successive
         administrations;

(ii)     there was little or no ownership of the project by the Government at-large, thus
         contributing to the project's continuous lack of counterpart funds;

(iii)    sector policies central to Project implementation had been reversed, including that (a)
         decentralization was no longer on the agenda of the administration. All initial advances in
         this direction had been reversed and the Ministry remained highly centralized; (b) the
         policy on community participation in health services management had been reversed; (c)
         pilot activities to increase the project's financial sustainability by purchasing
         pharmaceuticals and creating revolving funds in the health facilities (Components A and
         C) were contradicted by a policy that eliminated charges for pharmaceuticals; and (d)
         family planning activities had been stopped by one Minister;

(iv)     the capacity of the national Public Health Institute to train personnel was lower than
         expected , but contracting-out training was not acceptable to the Ministry;

(v)      Regional Directorates, that were the key implementers of most activities had a very low
         implementation capacity, and since decentralization policies had been reversed, no longer
         had the authority to be strengthened and to carry-out their originally proposed role;

(vi)     the CEBINFAs required more effort to open and supervise than expected, were more
         expensive than predicted, and their potential impact was deemed marginal for the
         improvement of neonatal and maternal deaths;

(vii)    lack of doctors outside Asuncion, which had been one of the Project driving force to
         focus on community health workers and traditional births attendants to deliver services,
         had been overcome by generations of new graduates from medical schools willing to go
         to the provinces. The new issue was to ensure that those professionals had the adequate
         skills.



From 1996 to 2000, the Project disbursed only six percent of the loan (about US$1.9 million). Few Project
activities were started (among them contracting the design for the health facilities to be built; financing of
rehabilitation of a few health facilities; launch of two bids for basic pharmaceutical drugs). In the ECD
Pilot, four CEBINFAs were rehabilitated and launched in Asunción. However it soon became clear that the
model that called for volunteer mothers to run the centers was not working, and that it was not perceived as
a priority, thus further investments were discontinued.

The Maternal Health and Child Development Project was not the only problem Project in the Bank's
portfolio in Paraguay. After the political instability of the late 1990's, and the subsequent economic crisis,
practically the entire Bank portfolio was on hold amid accusations of government corruption and shortage
of counterpart funds. There were no Projects in the pipeline and the dialogue with the country was reduced
to a minimum. At that point the Bank considered canceling the Loan balance.

By early 2000, the country's political situation stabilized and the new Minister of Health was committed to




                                                      - 6 -

implement most of the Project on an accelerated basis. Also, in contrast to his predecessors, the new
Minister was able to secure, most of the time, counterpart funds for the Project, speed-up implementation,
and gave substantial support to a newly staffed PCU. With these improved prospects for satisfactory
implementation, the Bank agreed not to cancel the loan balance, but to review Project activities.


Project Restructuring

The Project was restructured progressively throughout 2000. It affirmed the validity of Project objectives
(a) (b) and (d). Recognizing the difficulties in establishing the CEBINFAS, and their cost, the Bank and
Government agreed that the pilot had shown the non-feasibility of the early childhood development scheme.
Further, the means of the Project to achieve the objectives and the scope of objective (d) were deemed
inadequate.

A full review of the Project's activities was undertaken based on a Project-financed study on the quality
and efficiency of the health services in the Project areas respect to eight essential obstetric and one neonatal
functions (8FOE&1N) [2] considered fundamental to reduce maternal and neonatal mortality. The thrust of
the restructuring was to focus Project activities on achieving a targeted client-specific reduction in a
selected set of acute and frequent health conditions, rather than to continue with efforts to create an
environment in which such conditions (and others) might be treated. This was to give the Project a greater
sense of focus. It implied changes as to how objectives were to be achieved, who was responsible for the
activities, and how many types of activities were to be implemented. As a result, the redesigned Project
sought to: (i) reduce the institutional complexity; (ii) align activities with national policies, particularly by
adopting centralized management; and (iii) limit activities to those that could have, in the medium term, a
direct impact on maternal and child mortality around childbirth.

Although the Project operated following the new orientation from early 2001, the formal amendment to the
Loan Agreement(s) to reflect the revisions in the Project financing was not signed until February 4, 2002.
The delay in signing was partly due to a six-month gap between the Bank's task managers. After 95% of
the funds had been disbursed, there was a one year extension of the Loans' Closing Date until June 30,
2004, to reflect a four and a half months portfolio-wide suspension of disbursements, and small delays
caused by an electoral year, and to permit a smooth closing of Project administrative hand-over to the new
administration.

Restructured Component A-           Maternal and Child Health Care: The specific objective of this
component remained unaltered by the restructuring.            In addition to the factors mentioned above,
restructuring was necessary due to the Regional Directorates requiring more intensive support to prepare
subProjects than had been previously estimated during preparation of the Project. Also, successive
administrations had not complied with the preparation of regional implementation plans. Further, while
Project-supported training had been initiated for traditional midwives and health workers, the new health
policy discouraged them from carrying-out deliveries which posed a problem for Project implementation.

The Borrower and the Bank teams agreed that the key strategy to curb mortality in the target groups was to
develop an obstetric network (red obstétrica). The Project financed the 8FOE&1N study that provided
detailed data on the health service provision in the Project areas, and was used as a situation baseline and to
develop a clear map for Project activities.

The revised activities included: (i) improvement and expansion of primary and secondary health
infrastructure in the poorest areas of the country; (ii) creation of a communications and transportation



                                                      - 7 -

network to improve referrals and transport of obstetric emergencies to health facilities; (iii) creation of a
network of blood banks to improve the supply of safe blood in obstetric emergencies; (iv) pilot new
techniques for behavior change among the population in three specific subjects linked to key maternal and
child mortality causes (immunization, blood donations and institutional deliveries) through communication
campaigns at local level; (v) training of health sector staff in basic obstetric and neonatal care and on
AIEPI; (vi) improvement of data collection for maternal mortality through the creation of maternal
mortality investigation committees; (vii) strengthening the national immunization campaigns and national
health programs; and (viii) strengthening capacity at the regional level to train health personnel in
emergency obstetrics, care for the newborn, and immunization; monitor such training; manage
immunization campaigns; and manage and implement local behavior change and education campaigns.

Component A activities were further revised to reduce those interventions deemed less effective in curbing
maternal and perinatal mortality, such as non-pregnancy-related reproductive health care for women, and
traditional midwives and health workers training. Finally, the teams decided that to reduce child mortality it
was paramount to focus the Project's support on some of the most cost-effective interventions for children
under age five, namely, the Expanded National Immunization Program (Plano Ampliado de Inmunización,
PAI) and the integrated treatment of childhood diseases (Atención Integral a Enfermedades Prevalentes en
la Primera Infancia, AIEPI) including the development and introduction of a neonatal AIEPI to reduce
neonatal deaths.

Restructured Component B- Early Childhood Development (ECD) Pilot. The Government and the
Bank agreed to cancel any remaining activities under the Early Childhood Development Pilot (Component
B) since it had become clear that the pilot experience had not been successful. As a result of these changes,
the Project became entirely focused on addressing the root causes of maternal and child mortality.

Restructured Component C- Support for Decentralization. The Government and the Bank also agreed
to reduce the scope of the `Support for Decentralization' component, narrowing its focus from general
capacity building to strengthening regional capacity to carry out personnel training, immunizations, and
local communication campaigns in support of maternal and child health care, and to re-focus the training
subcomponent (Component A) towards medical personnel and for supporting the implementation of
national maternal-child health care programs introduced by the MSPBS at the end of the 1990's.

Restructured Component D- Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation. The PCU was
reorganized to reduce the role of departmental sub-units, and integrated into the MOH structure. It was
re-staffed. In addition, the 8FOEs& 1N survey was carried-out to be used as a base line on quality and
efficiency of health services. It was decided that the Government and the Bank would use the results of this
survey (together with those of the Sexual and Reproductive Health Survey) as tools to monitor and evaluate
the Project.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory.
Project design reflected the recommendations of a poverty assessment conducted by the Bank in 1994 by
targeting interventions to poor areas, strengthening service delivery, emphasizing preventive health care,
promoting community participation, and improving sector management capacity. However, by today's
standards, the quality of entry of the Project suffered a number of important shortcomings including: (i)
unrealistic assumptions underlying the relevance of parts of the Project's design; (ii) absence of adequate
base-line data and monitoring and evaluation systems; (iii) too ambitious targets for the coverage of the
population to be reached; and (iv) an inadequate institutional assessment. Moreover, the social and



                                                     - 8 -

institutional instability affecting the country and the MSPBS during the first years of Project
implementation did not permit the immediate correction of these issues once identified.

The first and most important shortcoming was the lack of direct relevance of some of the objectives (and
corresponding components) to the key sector issues. The introduction of Component B: (Early Childhood
Development Pilo), late in Project preparation phase proved to be a miscalculation, as it diffused
implementation efforts away from the Project's main component, and thus from the key health issues
confronted by poor mothers and children in Paraguay. Likewise, it is not clear how as designed, Component
C (Support for Decentralization) could have supported the health sector without also addressing
longstanding structural weaknesses at the national level, particularly in a country with such strong central
government. These two components increased the Project's institutional complexity by adding Regional
Directorates and a newly upgraded (and unproven in its implementation capacity) National Directorate of
Social Welfare (within the MSPBS) as surrogate implementation units.

Second, although the SAR recognized that vital statistics and health service data in Paraguay were
unreliable and thus inappropriate to evaluate Project outcomes, it only partially addressed the issue. The
SAR appropriately proposed the use of survey data to evaluate Project outcomes. However, there was no
clear guidance on the activities to establish a monitoring system and at the same time, the SAR listed more
than eighty monitoring and impact indicators. The level of guidance provided in the SAR did not seem to
be conducive to the development of an operational Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system.
Furthermore, given the identified data problems, an excess results of indicators was specified. Finally, there
was no clear connection between all Project objectives, some interventions, and some expected outcomes
and indicators.

Third, the SAR specified an ­ in hindsight ­ too ambitious target for health service coverage of mothers
and children in the Project areas. While the SAR did not establish target values for overall impact
indicators of the Project, it did specify target coverage rates of the basic package of mother and child health
services which was to reach 100 percent of the poor population by Project completion (SAR, p. 20). Given
the difficulties stemming from both the supply side (functioning and governance of health service delivery
in Paraguay) as well as demand factors outside of the Project influence (transportation, household income,
traditional health beliefs) such complete coverage rates were likely to be overoptimistic.

Fourth, institutionally, the Project implementation arrangements were complex. The arrangements did not
establish clear coordinating lines with regular ministry programs and seem to have underestimated the weak
implementation capacity of the executing agency.          For example, the design included the creation of
Regional Coordination Offices and Regional Health Councils with the responsibility to identify and review
infrastructure and equipment subProjects, as though such investments were to be managed as a social
investment fund. At the same time, however, investments were to be identified based on a comprehensive
diagnostic study of the six Project departments with decision-making taking place at the central level.
Another example is the lack of experience of the agency that was in charge of implementing the Early
Childhood Development Pilot with respect to mobilizing low-income urban communities to run a
facility-based integrated ECD program.

Some of the potential strengths of the design became liabilities as the socio-political turmoil in the country
developed. Notably, the creation of a strong PCU (a clear result of the lessons learned) became a handicap.
The proportionally higher salaries of the PCU, particularly as the country entered an economic crisis,
became a magnet for political appointments, and the unit's staff was changed frequently by the different
ministers (four ministers in three years). Moreover, the MSPBS staff perceived the PCU as a parallel
ministry that had preferential treatment and direct access to the different Ministers. As a result, there was


                                                      - 9 -

little Project ownership in the MSPBS. This was particularly apparent in the design of Component A where
the most central set of Project interventions were not coordinated with the MSPBS's national program, thus
reducing Project ownership and fostering animosity.

The adjustments to the Project introduced in the 2001 review addressed most of the perceived design
shortcomings. As a result, the pace of implementation accelerated substantially and the loan disbursed in
three and a half years what had been Projected to implement and disburse in six years.




                                                    - 10 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unsatisfactory
Although the Project achieved an important turnaround in performance after the restructuring in 2001, the
Project's overall performance towards achievement of its stated development objectives needs to be
considered as unsatisfactory given that (a) the available survey as well as administrative data on overall
impact indicators show either stagnant (infant mortality) or worsening (maternal mortality) overall trends
during the lifetime of the Project (it is acknowledged that the time series of administrative data include
important measurement errors); and (b) available data on health service delivery from the National
Reproductive Health Survey show improvement in coverage rates for the Project areas which, however, fall
significantly short of the 100 percent coverage objective as stated in the SAR. This said, and as will be
shown below and in Annex 1, the Project has made significant advances to improve efficiency and quality
of care in Project areas since 2001 and thereby has partially obtained the specified objectives. Hence, if the
rating scale would be available, the Project rate for the achievement of overall development objectives
would be moderately unsatisfactory.

Main development objective. The main objective of the Maternal Health and Child Development Project
was to improve the health status of the underserved Paraguayan population, particularly women and
children (Staff Appraisal Report [SAR] 15610-PA, p. 19). Annex 1 (Key performance indicators), includes
both a description of indicators used at various times of Project preparation and execution and specifies
available information on the major impact indicators (maternal mortality, neonatal mortality and infant
mortality):


                                                            Base                   Latest
    Recorded maternal mortality, (MOH
    administrative data)
    - national                              101.2/ 100,000 l.b. (1996)    (182.1)/100,000 l.b.(2002)
    Neonatal mortality, (MOH
    administrative data)
    - National                              11.3 (1996)                   11.4 (2001)
    Neonatal mortality, (EDSSR)
    - National (previous 5 years)           16.0** (previous 5 years)     17.0** (previous 5 years)
    Infant mortality, (administrative data)
    - National (registered)                  20.9 (1996)                  19.6 (2002)  19.8(2001)
    - National (estimated)                   40.62 (1996)                 38.10 (2000)
    Infant mortality, (EDSSR)
    - National (previous 5 years)           27.0 (1996)**                 29.0 (2004)**
    - National (previous 10 years)          33.0 (1996)                   26.0 (2004)
    ** not statistically significant change
    Source: Annex 1

The above table includes both administrative data as well as data that recently became available from a
recent National Reproductive Health Survey. The survey instruments generally provide reliable estimates
and, while the survey did not collect data in the six Project regions alone, it can be seen that key outcome
indicators (neonatal and infant mortality) did not change significantly over the implementation period of the
Project. Regarding administrative data, this cannot be relied on for comparative purposes as the degree of
underreporting of mortality estimates changed significantly over the last years in Paraguay, in part due to



                                                          - 11 -

Project activities. Hence, the large increases in key outcome indicators as recorded in the above table are
very likely not correct. Today, underreporting of maternal deaths it is estimated at 30%.          In sum, the
available information is incomplete (no geographic information from the survey) and provides no
conclusive evidence on developments of key outcomes the Project was to achieve. Survey data suggest,
though, that overall outcome indicators did not improve in Paraguay as had been stipulated in the SAR.

Specific development objectives. Given the large number of monitoring and impact indicators determined
at the time of appraisal, this ICR focuses on a number of key indicators which have been chosen among the
large list of monitoring and impact indicators specified in the SAR. These indicators are:
(i) percentage of pregnant women that had at least one neonatal visit during their pregnancy; (ii) percentage
of pregnant women who had at least one prenatal visit during the first trimester of their pregnancy; (iii)
percentage of institutional deliveries; (iv) Percentage of newborns that had their neonatal controls; (v)
immunization coverage in children from 12-23 months; and (vi) percentage of health staff that applies the
AIEPI (IMCI) strategy.

Objective 1: To increase the coverage, quality and efficiency in the delivery of basic maternal and
child health care services in the Project area.

The results of this component were assessed through: (i) collection of health service coverage data from
two comparable nation-wide household surveys (in 1998 and 2004); (ii) specialized quality and efficiency
surveys conducted in 2001 (at the time of Project restructuring) and 2004 at the end of Project
implementation. The methodology and detailed results of the quality and efficiency survey is presented in
Annex 8.

Improvement in Service Coverage: The improvement in two key proxy indicators of service availability
and coverage showed that coverage improved substantially over the lifetime of the Project but fell short of
the universal coverage target (of the poor population) specified in the SAR. (See also Annex 8).

Using administrative data, Table 1 shows the number and percentage of institutional deliveries between
2001 and 2003. The table compares the Project areas to the rest of the country. Notwithstanding data
limitations, institutional deliveries in Project departments increased by 3.8 percent compared to 2.3 percent
in the rest of the country and 2 percent in the two neighboring departments, thereby helping to bridge the
gap between the Project area and the country as a whole (see Annex 8, Table 1). In addition, the capacity
to carry out at-risk institutional deliveries increased in the Project area by 8.7 percent from 2001 to 2003.




                                                      - 12 -

    Table 1. Number and Percentage of Institutional Deliveries in Project and rest of the Country
                                              2001                                 2003
    Departments                NVR         Institutional     %     NVR          Institutional %
    Concepción                       3398           2409     70.9       3543           2547   71.9
    San Pedro                        3745           2692     71.9       4046           3019   74.6
    Alto Paraná                      8791           6394     72.7       8109           6123   75.5
    Amambay                          1471           1311     89.1       1263           1128   89.3
    Canindeyu                        1746           1143     65.5       1439           1100   76.4
    Alto Paraguay                      119             93    78.2         160            128  80.0
    Project Departments             19270         14042      72.9      18560          14045   75.7
    Project at risk
    deliveries/total                                         18.3                             19.9
    Paraguay TOTAL                  83919         71736      85.5      83000          72616   87.5
    Source: Dept. Bioestadistica, MSPBS (2004).
    Note: Data for 2003 are provisory; NVR=registered live births



Although less reliable, institutional records on child health care visits at the regional hospitals in the Project
area also showed improvements in coverage from 55.1 percent in 1997 to 61.5 percent in 2004.
Vaccination coverage in the Project areas and in the country also improved during the Project period
mainly due to the Project-financed establishment of the cold chain and the constant support for
Project-financed vaccination activities.

To summarize, the existing data on trends in coverage rates of key services supported by the Project
indicate that the Project did cause overall improvements. However, such improvements fell short of the
specified target.

Improvements in Quality: Two types of survey, the "8FOE&1N surveys" (2001-2004) and the AIEPI
assessments, reviewed quality and efficiency parameters, measured by the presence and functionality of the
infrastructure and equipment, and presence of the required qualified personnel, needed to perform the
identified functions and or tasks. It also evaluated the technical competence of the personnel through
observation of the tasks performed. As mentioned above, the 8FOE&1N survey (financed with Project
funds) was fielded in 2001 (at the time of Project restructuring) and in 2004 (at Project ending).
Comparisons to non-Project areas are only indicative and cannot be attributed to the Project since no
proper baseline survey had been conducted which would have allowed a proper impact assessment,
comparing Project interventions to a properly defined control group of beneficiaries and health institutions.

In the Project areas, quality of service in different types of health institutions improved significantly during
the time period from 2001 to 2003 [3]. Using the 8FOE&1N functions as a reference, the quality of
services in the Project area hospitals improved by over 15 percent, on average achieving a 71.6 percent
satisfactory performance compared to 62 percent in 2001 (see Annex 8, Table 3). The only exception was
a slight decline in the score for the referral function, which in fact is good news because it reflects the
improved capacity of the Project hospitals to treat obstetric and neonatal patients with more serious
conditions. Although the improvements in health centers and posts were more modest (55 percent and 45
percent satisfactory performance respectively), the figures suggest a real improvement in the quality of
health services at these levels as well. Likewise, health posts have seen those functions that should not
have been performed at their level reduced (with the exception of blood transfusion, which needs to be
monitored), and an increase in their essential function, family planning.The 2004 round of the 8FOE&1N
included data collection on the quality of prenatal care provided in the Project areas [4]. The survey shows



                                                         - 13 -

good quality of prenatal care at all levels, including health posts.

Finally, UNICEF's AIEPI assessment shows that in 2004, in the Project-supported departments, 58 percent
of the health staff applied AIEPI in daily practice. This figure represents an improvement of 9 percent over
the 2001 baseline. Most importantly, almost all the improvement was at the level of nursing assistants,
which are responsible for 85 percent of pediatric outpatient pediatric visits. In the Project areas, the
increase of use of AIEPI in their consultations was 30 percent on average. This increase was greater in the
departments that started with lower levels of implementation of this national strategy. Direct observations
demonstrated that by using the AIEPI strategy, nurse assistants were able to diagnose and treat/or refer
children better.

Improvements in Efficiency: The specialized surveys measured the level of efficiency of health facilities
as a function of: (a) the technical/knowledge abilities demonstrated by the staff, (b) the physical
characteristics of the health institution, (c) the equipment, (d) the availability of supplies and drugs, and (e)
the availability of essential health personnel. Although Project interventions addressed most of these
efficiency conditions, the availability of health personnel (and to a lesser extent that of drugs and supplies)
were outside the control of the Project. Nevertheless, all efficiency measures improved between 2001 and
2004 in the Project areas and surpassed those in non-Project departments, with the exception of availability
of supplies and drugs (see additional Annex 8, Table 4). While such comparisons are informative, they do
not represent a regorous impact evaluation since no control group had been selected at the start of the
Project. Hospital efficiency reached 71.6 percent in Project-supported departments compared to 71.1
percent in non-Project departments; Project health centers exceed by 20.3 percent points those in
non-Project departments; and Project-supported health posts improved to the level of non-Project health
posts. The performance of essential obstetric and neonatal functions also improved, depending on the type
of health facility. For example, according to the survey :




                                                       - 14 -

    ·    Surgical procedures in hospitals improved by 21.2 percent, particularly with respect to
         physical conditions of the establishment (31.8 percent), supplies (43.5 percent) and
         availability of health personnel (49.4 percent), all of which are presently comparable to non-
         project departments.

    ·    In 2003, conditions for the performance of anesthesiology services in Project hospitals were
         25.7 percent better than in non-project hospitals ­ albeit, as stated above, this does not lend
         itself to a statement about the impact of the project due to the absence of a properly defined
         control group which would have lent itself to attribute changes in performance to the project
         itself. The availability of anesthesiology staff in hospitals improved by 54.3 percent. Yet,
         efficiency losses were observed with respect to supplies and drugs, which declined by 84.1
         percent.

    ·    Blood transfusion conditions improved by 35.4 percent in hospitals, but deteriorated in health
         centers (-54.5 percent) and remained approximately the same in health posts (-1.9 percent).
         In hospitals, improvements in the availability of equipment (64.8 percent) and specialized
         health personnel (53.2 percent) largely account for the overall positive result.

    ·    For newborn care, hospitals show a 40 percent efficiency gain, largely due to improvements
         to the physical plant (50.4 percent), availability of supplies (59.6 percent) and presence of
         specialized health personnel (54.6 percent). At health centers and posts, conditions did not
         change significantly.

    ·    Pre- and post-natal care improved in hospitals by 26.2 percent due to better equipment and
         supplies. Conditions remained basically unchanged in health centers and posts.


Regarding the efficiency of the application of the AIEPI strategy, in the baseline study, only 21 percent of
the health facilities had the adequate equipment, and medical and administrative material. Only 3.8 percent
of the evaluated services had the required drugs required to treat the basic childhood illnesses according the
AIEPI protocols. In the AIEPI evaluation in 2003, 100 percent of the health facilities in the Project areas
had the basic equipment and materials necessary to carry out the AIEPI program and 35 percent of the
facilities also had the pharmaceuticals to treat the basic illnesses.

These data indicate that the quality of obstetric and neonatal care in the Project areas improved
significantly during the active years of the Project. In particular, the Project improved the capacity of
hospitals to perform obstetric surgery, provide blood transfusions, care for the newborn, and exercise
proper vigilance of patients during labor.

Objective 2: To increase the knowledge of the population about adequate health practices.

Starting in 2000, efforts to strengthen community knowledge of healthy maternal and infant practices were
carried out in three of the six Project departments, namely in the Concepción, Alto Paraná, and San Pedro
Departments [5]. Together these three departments account for 80 percent of the total Project target
population.     The IEC activities were focused on: (i) increasing knowledge about the importance of
vaccination and increasing vaccination demand; (ii) increasing knowledge about the importance of prenatal
care and institutional deliveries and increasing the demand for these services; and (iii) mobilizing
communities to donate blood. Prior to the intervention, the Project contracted local experts to carry a
survey of knowledge attitudes and practices (KAP) in the three areas where IEC activities were going to be
implemented. After the interventions, the same group evaluated the results through focus groups and



                                                     - 15 -

in-depth interviews with community leaders and health services service users and non-users. The results
indicate that after the activities, the population in general increased its knowledge about the three targeted
issues, (Table 2).

             Table 2. Knowledge of need for prenatal care, immunization and blood donations by region


                 Region                         Results 2002 KAP                  Results 2004 KAP
     Alto Paraná                                      52 %                               73%
     Concepción                                       47 %                               70%
     San Pedro                                        32%                                67%


There was also an increase in the demand for vaccination and competition among barrios to get high
vaccination coverage. Prenatal care attendance also increased. Finally, for the first time ever, the three
regional hospitals in the selected areas have a list of voluntary donors that give blood regularly.

In addition, the Project created instruments for effective community outreach. Based on a survey of
selected communities carried out in 2002, the MSPBS now has the know-how to disseminate critical health
information to local communities in Paraguay. Youth were selected as the main health promotion agents in
the community, an appropriate approach given their leadership potential and enthusiasm, and the high
return of their knowledge throughout their lives. The experience of mobilizing youth was very successful,
as their activities resulted in desired results (see outcomes below) and the IEC evaluation showed good
acceptance by the community of these volunteers. Moreover, the youth theater groups formed under the
Project are continuing with their educational efforts even after the Project's end. This experience has
provided a good model that can be replicated elsewhere in the country (see outputs by components below).
By the end of the Project, there were formal requests from several communities and secondary schools to
continue and expand the efforts.

Objective 3: To test a strategy to improve early childhood development.

During the 2001 Project review, it was decided that the results of the pilot-testing of the early childhood
development strategy in Asuncion were not conducive to provide continued support for this activity. The
experiment failed to provide the integrated health, nutrition and education services for preschool children
originally envisaged, basically because the CEBINFAs model did not succeed in generating sustainable
community capacity to operate the centers. More importantly, the intervention did not respond to the
epidemiological profile of Paraguay, which indicates that priority should be given to infants, particularly
during the perinatal period of life. For this age group, the ECD strategy was clearly ineffective. Although
lessons were learned from the pilot, the Bank concurred with the Government decision to abandon the
initiative and reallocate scarce resources to the most cost-effective components of the Project.

Objective 4: To strengthen the management capability of the MSPBS to decentralize the delivery of
health services and to carry out Project implementation.

Overall, this objective was not achieved as had originally been planned for. The Project was able to support
the functions of staff training, supervision of service delivery, and the planning and implementation of local
IEC programs on the basis of statistical information at the regional level which strengthened the
management of health regions and districts in the Project area and established the basis for systematic
community outreach. However, with the severe scarcity of counterpart funds during the first three years of
Project implementation in addition to the administration's rejection of all advances towards fiscal
decentralization, the Project focused only on strengthening those technical skills that did not need


                                                      - 16 -

significant additional resources. Decentralization activities ­ and their impact ­ supported by the Project
were hence significantly more limited than had originally been planned for.




                                                   - 17 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
During its implementation the Project achieved the following:

    (i)      construction and equipment of two new district hospitals;

    (ii)     rehabilitation and equipment of obstetric and pediatric services in five regional and
             districts hospitals;

    (iii)    rehabilitation and equipment of 42 health centers and heath post;

    (iv)     construction and equipment of the national cold chain for immunization composed of a
             national and three regional depots, and mobile fridges;

    (v)      equipment and personnel training for five decentralized blood banks;

    (vi)     purchase of pharmaceuticals for basic mother and child conditions;

    (vii)    launching, training and supervision of the maternal deaths surveillance system;

    (viii)   training of health staff on obstetric emergency care, and integrated management of
             childhood illnesses (IMCI);

    (ix)     recurrent costs for immunization campaigns;

    (x)      training and recurrent costs for community-based behavior-change campaigns on prenatal
             care, blood donation and immunization; and

    (xi)     studies on diagnostic and proposal of a national blood bank network, the effectiveness,
             efficiency and quality of health services regarding the basic eighth obstetric and one
             neonatal functions (8FOE &1N), the implementation of the IMCI strategy, and the
             knowledge attitudes and practices of the population on prenatal care, blood donation,
             and immunization, before and after the communication campaigns.


The Project increased the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of the 8FOE&1N health services in the
Project areas; improved the detection and recording of maternal mortality; contributed to the improvement
of vaccination coverage, increased the implementation of the IMCI strategy particularly among auxiliary
nurses that see 80 percent of the children; and launched a movement for blood donation.

Component A- Maternal and Child Health Care.             (US$19.0 million equivalent or 79 percent of total
Project cost): Moderately Satisfactory

The outcomes of this component are described below by subcomponent with all reported activities
pertaining to the second phase of the Project (after restructuring in 2001). During the first years of the
Project (from 1996 to 2000), the Project had initiated the rehabilitation of a few health centers and posts
only.

A.1 Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Infrastructure and Equipment (US$15.6 million): This
subcomponent financed:




                                                    - 18 -

    ·    the construction, expansion and/or rehabilitation of and equipment for nine regional and
         district hospitals, four of which are new facilities;

    ·    the rehabilitation of and equipment for 15 health centers, and 22 health posts;

    ·    the installation of a radio-communications network in 138 health facilities in the project area
         (this investment, which was not originally planned, effectively expedited referrals, thus
         significantly improving the performance of this function in Northeastern Paraguay);

    ·    repairs of 40 ambulances and the procurement of four boats to operate as ambulances serving
         communities along the Paraguay river, and

    ·    support for the extended immunization program (PAI) through the installation of refrigeration
         facilities in all health establishments in the project area, and in the construction of a central
         and three regional vaccine warehouses.


All civil works were completed and are in operation, except for regional warehouses for vaccines which, in
some cases, are not yet operating. A sample of 14 infrastructure subProjects shows that construction took
from 170 to 330 days per facility, averaging 265 days (see Annex 1, Table A.3). According to supervision
reports the quality of construction is deemed acceptable and in accordance with the specifications.
Implementation of the architectural and engineering design for the new hospitals were contracted to a firm
in Spain which caused important problems for program implementation as most of the designs required
extensive modifications. Such modifications were time consuming since the firm did not have any local
representation.

Medical and industrial equipment was procured during the 2000-2001 period and was subsequently
delivered and used. A few of the furniture items and equipment did not match the needs of health facilities,
and a database was created to facilitate their reallocation by the MSPBS. Procedures to control equipment
guarantees are in place and all directors received a complete inventory of items delivered to their respective
facilities.  The main concern regarding this component is the possibility of insufficient budgetary
allocations to finance recurrent maintenance expenditures associated with the infrastructure and equipment
financed by the Project. To minimize this risk, the Project created a maintenance fund to finance basic
recurrent expenditures.

A.2 Pharmaceuticals and Supplies (US$2.3 million): The procurement and distribution of drugs,
laboratory materials and medical supplies was carried out as planned and was accompanied by training in
the use of the items acquired. Adjustments were required with respect to the procurement of contraceptives
planned for the Project. Since USAID was already financing all contraceptives required in Paraguay, this
item was dropped from the basic list of drugs to be procured under the Project. Another modification to the
original plan was the non-implementation of community pharmacies, which were expected to be relatively
self-sufficient through the introduction of cost-recovery. As mentioned previously, this idea was tested, but
could not be carried out due to impossibility of maintaining a revolving fund at the pharmacies after a
Ministerial Resolution in 1999 mandated free drugs for mothers and children under age five. Although the
Project contributed to reduce shortages of drugs and supplies in the health facilities of six departments,
shortages persist countrywide indicating that this is still a vulnerable area deserving further attention.

A.3 Information, Education and Communication (IEC) (US$0.9 million): This subcomponent financed a
baseline survey to determine the prevailing health care attitudes and knowledge in local communities ("
Conocimientos, Actitudes y Prácticas en Vacunación, Donación Voluntaria de Sangre y Riesgo del
Embarazo, Parto y Puerperio", May 2004). Based on this information, community outreach models were



                                                     - 19 -

developed for the dissemination of information about reproductive risk, blood donations and
immunizations. Pilot activities with youth were successfully carried out in three Project departments
(Concepción, Alto Paraná and San Pedro).

Among the critical activities completed with community participation, the strengthening of the
Epidemiologic Vigilance of Health and Maternal Mortality (Comité Nacional de Vigilancia
Epidemiológica de la Salud y la Mortalidad Materna, VESMM) is particularly important. This program
was put in place to reduce under registration of maternal death and resulted in substantial improvement in
the recording of those events. The strategy established local committees to investigate and report every
maternal death. This initiative, tested in the Project area, has now been expanded throughout the country.

Other specific investments made include: (a) establishment of central, regional and local IEC units; (b)
leadership training for community youth; (c) communications and social participation campaigns focused
on immunizations, blood donation and obstetric risk, together with an evaluation of the results of these
campaigns; (d) design, printing and distribution of educational materials under the coordination of the
MSPBS Directorate General of Health Promotion designed for community level dissemination and
technical use; (e) design and production of a radio promotion campaign targeted to adolescents in three
Project departments; (f) social communication promotional campaign covering immunizations, reproductive
risk and voluntary blood donations, and (g) organization of community volunteers to help provide
transportation to health care facilities for mothers ready to deliver their babies.

A.4 Training (US$0.2 million latest estimate): The revised Project supported training programs designed
to strengthen national maternal-child care programs already adopted by the MSPBS. Specifically, the
following activities were financed:




                                                      - 20 -

·   training designed to implement the AIEPI child health care strategy in the project health
    facilities and evaluation of the effectiveness of the program; 1,156 persons were trained (137
    physicians, 152 nurses, 789 auxiliary nurses and 78 voluntary community promoters) and, as
    a result, the level of utilization of the AIEPI protocol was raised from 9 percent (2001) to 58
    percent of the staff in 2004;

·   a thorough analysis of the performance of eight essential obstetric functions and one neonatal
    function in the project-supported health facilities provided information to target training for
    1,400 obstetric and neonatal staff focused on emergency care and utilization of a technical
    manual developed by the project;

·   development of instruments to improve blood transfusions at the regional level through
    rationalization of the services provided, creation of a promotion program to increase
    voluntary blood donations, and establishment of a rotating fund to guarantee the opportune
    supply of reactive and other essential items and related training in these areas;

·   training on quality improvements in health care services was provided for 156 managerial
    staff;

·   training of 1,400 health professionals on how to improve coordination with midwives and
    contribute to better community delivery practices; and

·   professional training to improve the care of the newborn (Atención al Recién Nacido--
    ARENA) was carried out in the project area in collaboration with the National Paraguayan
    Pediatric Association, the National Medical School (UNA) and MSPBS specialized staff,
    using the strategy of training of trainers. This initiative contributed to marked improvements
    in the performance of neonatal health care, particularly in hospitals and health centers in the
    project departments.


Component B- Early Childhood Development Pilot ($0.2 million latest estimate or 1 percent of total
Project cost): Moderately Unsatisfactory

The ECD Pilot, as it was implemented, was less than 8 percent of the original plan to create 40
CEBINFAs. As noted above, the experience of the first few CEBINFAs during the initial phase of Project
implementation clearly indicated that the model was neither a viable one nor the most appropriate strategy
to improve child health in Paraguay. Thus, the decision to discontinue investments under this component is
considered appropriate but component's relevance for the Project was hence also doubtful. The basic
problem faced by the CEBINFAs was that the centers did not provide for the proper delivery of integrated
health, nutrition and educational services to preschool children and did not address the critical high infant
mortality rate observed during the neonatal period. The practical arrangements for the implementation of
the centers relied on community organization and cost-recovery through user fees. These arrangements
were unsuccessful in installing adequate community capacity to guarantee service sustainability.

The revised Project (since 2001) adopted a comprehensive child health care strategy. First, a new child
health care protocol developed by the Pan-American Health Association (PAHO) was introduced for the
integrated attention to the most common childhood diseases (AIEPI) and health personnel were trained in its
application (see A.4 above). Second, a community outreach program was created to expand the coverage
of the child immunization program (Programa Ampliado de Inmunizaciones--PAI) with assistance from
PAHO and UNICEF. Training in the application of the AIEPI protocol resulted in an increase of over five
times in the application of the integrated strategy by health personnel, a change from 9 percent in 2001 to
58 percent in 2004.



                                                    - 21 -

Component C- Support for Decentralization ($1.4 million latest estimate or 6 percent of total Project
cost): Moderately Unsatisfactory

With the restructuring, the Project's support for decentralization was reoriented towards strengthening
basic material and child health care services. Specifically, the functions of staff training, supervision of
service delivery, and the planning and implementation of local programs were decentralized to regional and
local levels, substantially expanding the scope of these activities and contributing to improving community
outreach efforts. This component financed: (a) training of regional trainers; (b) technical assistance to help
regional directors plan the training and follow-up; (c) technical assistance and training on AIEPI; (d)
technical assistance to plan and carry out vaccination campaigns; (e) recurrent cost of vaccination; (f)
training of community specialists at the regional level to monitor, supervise, and carry out community
health campaigns; and (g) minor goods for use at the regional level.

Component D- Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation ($3.4 million latest estimate or 14
percent of total Project cost): Moderately Unsatisfactory

Project administration improved only after country conditions stabilized and the new team, installed in
2000, was able to systematize financial management and procurement, put in place technical expertise to
reorient the Project interventions, better link Project activities with the regular policies and program of the
ministry, fully gain the confidence and collaboration of central and regional health authorities, and promote
the full ownership of the Project within the ministry. The relatively high administrative cost of the Project
is indicative of both the turmoil the Project passed through (especially from 1996 to 2000), as well as the
frequent supervision needed for the civil works, the transport of Ministry's personnel for vaccination
campaigns and supervision, and the monitoring efforts of the technical team.

Since 2000, the PCU had satisfactory administrative and financial controls over Project activities. The
positive Project achievements in the last years of implementation have shown the good potential in terms of
technical capacity and also dedication of the PCU team given that they had not received training from the
Bank on basic norms and procedures for Project implementation. However, the Project Operational
Manual was not updated and a comprehensive computerized monitoring system was not established.

While the Project did carry out two monitoring surveys in 2001 and 2004, the monitoring and evaluation
system of the Project was, overall, insufficient. The lack of an effective day-to-day monitoring system was
largely due to Project design deficiencies (the original plan had been to use MSPBS's institutional
monitoring system) and there was no priority given to setting up a parallel system. When this problem
became apparent, it was too late to establish a separate system. The above problems with judging the
overall impact of the Project are in part due to such deficiencies.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest
The institutional development impact of this Project is considered modest compared to its original
objectives. While some progress was made in strengthening the administrative capacity of the MSPBS at



                                                     - 22 -

its central, regional and local levels, integration of the Project implementation unit (and, thereby, the very
Project activities) as an integral part of the Ministry of Health did not succeed. Consequently, few staff
have been hired into the Ministry after loan closing.

However, the Project introduced several innovations in managerial and technical practices that may
contribute to sustaining the improvements made in maternal and child health care with regard to coverage,
quality and efficiency of care as outlined above. These innovations include: (i) an improved referral system;
(ii) the use of radio communications; (iii) the assessment of service performance standards through surveys;
(iv) the redirection of training activities to critical areas where services need to be strengthened; (v) the
introduction of community outreach and IEC techniques to improve knowledge of healthy practices in local
communities; (vi) the improvement of the reporting of maternal and infant mortality; (vii) the introduction
of maintenance plans for health facilities and a revolving fund to finance recurrent maintenance costs; and
(viii) the Ministry being in the process of standardizing the physical specifications for health facilities.
Such positive developments justify a modest rating with regard to institutional development impact.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were several external factors that affected Project implementation, including the impact of adverse
economic factors in Paraguay's neighboring countries at the end of the 1990s and the impact of the
Argentina financial and economic collapse in 2001 and 2002. Further, probably part of the social unrest
which all but paralyzed policy making from 1997 to 2000 was also beyond the immediate Government
control and due to a complex set of historical, social and economic (both external and internal) factors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The largest part of the difficulties the Project faced during its implementation phase can be traced to
government system weaknesses, including: (i) the instability of the Government cabinet, leading to four
changes of ministers of health from 1998-2000; (ii) the local currency (Guaraní) suffered a cumulative
devaluation of approximately 180 percent compared to the exchange rate in May 1996 when the Project
was appraised, and this was a problem for the Guaraní-denominated local contracts, and the capacity of the
government to provide sufficient counterpart funds; (iii) Loan disbursements were suspended during six
months, from January through June 2003, in response to the country's lack of capacity to honor its debts to
IBRD, causing delays in the completion of several Project activities; (iv) lack of counterpart funds in the
early years which basically halted Project implementation until 2001; (v) national health policies changed
significantly after Project approval, undermining the implementation of important Project components,
including the drug and decentralization activities; and (vi) the community outreach strategy introduced by
the Project faced significant institutional resistance, particularly at regional level.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
During the first three years of Project implementation, the PCU team did not succeed in integrating Project
activities into the structure and programs of the MSPBS, isolating the Project and not making proper use of
the available institutional resources. In contrast, the decision to change the PCU team in 2000 and
restructure the Project demonstrated a commitment on the part of the MSPBS to install strong leadership
and salvage the Project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Project was financed with two IBRD loans of US$10.9 million each--a currency pool loan (CPL
40860) and a single currency US Dollar denominated loan (SCL 40870), that represented 70 percent of the
estimated total Project cost. Project costs were estimated based on 1996 prices with contingencies estimated
at 13 percent of total baseline costs. Recurrent costs, including drugs and medical supplies, maintenance of



                                                      - 23 -

infrastructure and equipment, and operating costs for early childhood development centers (totaling
US$12.0 million equivalent or 38.4 percent of estimated total Project cost), were to be financed by the
Bank Loan on a declining basis. The estimated final total Project cost (including IBRD and Government
financing) is US$24.0 million, or 77 percent of the US$31.2 million estimated at appraisal. The 23 percent
reduction in total Project cost is largely attributable to the devaluation of the Guaraní, which implied that
none of the contingency funds were needed. In addition, the cost structure of the Project changed with the
reallocation of approximately US$2.0 million from Component B, and US$1.0 million for pharmaceuticals
from Component A. As of Project completion (September 30, 2004) US$21.27 million of the loan was
disbursed (98 percent of the loan amount) leaving an undisbursed balance of approximately US$350,000
that was cancelled.

Procurement was carried out centrally by the PCU and in total, the Project implemented 58 firm and 68
consultant contracts for an aggregate amount of US$18.67 million. The Project was audited by external
auditors annually. A total of 12 audit reports were submitted and reviewed by the Bank, and only two of
them indicated minor administrative issues such as filing problems or the lack of appropriate signatures. In
the last available audit report (first half of 2004), the financial statements of the PCU were unqualified. In
2003 a detailed FMR inspection on the part of the Bank identified several issues that were promptly
corrected.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Unlikely.
At this point, we judge the sustainability of a number of important Project activities as questionable, albeit
the integration of Project staff and specific programs into the line Ministry has been accelerated over the
past year. The key concern ­ necessary to ensure the continuity of the improved efficiency and coverage in
service delivery ­ relates to the maintenance of purchased equipment and the rehabilitated infrastructure.
The currently very high share of personnel spending in overall health expenditures in Paraguay presents a
serious problem for maintenance in the overall system, including the activities procured by the Project and
the Ministry's budget for infrastructure maintenance remains inadequate. Maintenance plans exist ­ and
had been supported by the Project activities ­ but an overall system that ensures the maintenance of the
installed capacity is not operational (the IDB and the Bank will support Government in the set-up of such
system through future support). The availabilities of drugs and medical and laboratory supplies remains a
bottleneck for service delivery given that both the current distribution system as well as the current user
cost policy does not allow health centers to retain locally raised revenue but requires them to pass the
collected fees to Ministry of Finance. On the positive side, transparent international bidding has reduced
the price of essential drugs by over 60 percent over the last year and the IDB is supporting Government's
Essential Drugs National Policy through the development of a purchase and distribution system for drugs
and medical materials.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Independent of the above concerns regarding maintenance of installed infrastructure, equipment and the
supply of inputs, beginning in 2004, transition of the Project to the Ministry is proceeding well. Project
activities were increasingly integrated into the regular operations of the Ministry and the MSPBS Directors
have assumed the responsibility for Project activities in their respective areas, as mandated by the Minister.
The transfer of completed works and installed equipment from the PCU to the MSPBS Infrastructure and
Equipment Directorate has been completed. All equipment guarantees provided by the suppliers are in
order and maintenance contracts are in place. The MSPBS has prepared a maintenance and operation plan
for all health facilities benefiting from the Project and is engaged in establishing a continuous in-service



                                                       - 24 -

staff training program through distance learning and other means.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory. As indicated in Section 3.5, the quality of Project design was unsatisfactory, particularly
with respect to monitoring and evaluation arrangements, but also regarding the design of Project
components and the institutional arrangements for Project implementation. This was the first health Project
financed by the Bank in Paraguay and the lack of country experience on the part of the Bank team may
account for the setting of too ambitious targets coupled with an overestimation of the implementation
readiness of Government and a rather weak assessment of potential risks. All those issues negatively
impacted Project design (while the Bank had not carried out a sector specific ESW as part of preparation,
the team did use sector analysis from the Inter-American Development Bank).

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. [Given the mixed performance overtime, we would rate the Bank's supervision performance
as moderately satisfactory if that option were available]. The Bank's initial supervision effort was clearly
unsatisfactory. Six task managers were involved in Project supervision. During the startup period from
effectiveness to December 2000, there were four different task managers, generating considerable
instability in the guidance provided to the Paraguayan Project team. This may be partially explained as part
of the reaction of the Bank as a whole to the unstable environment for development lending in Paraguay
during the period. However, Bank performance improved considerably during the last four years of
implementation. The Bank decided not to cancel the undisbursed loan funds and to re-establish dialogue
with the Ministry and Government in general. The Project was assigned two task managers, both with
strong technical and operational profiles that fully responded to the Project needs. When in 2001 the Bank
team recognized serious design and implementation issues, it worked closely with the MSPBS to refocus
and revise the Project and amend it formally.          During this phase of Project implementation, Bank
supervision improved and could be considered satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Unsatisfactory. [We would rate the overall Bank performance as moderately unsatisfactory, if that option
were available]. Overall, the Bank performance is rated as unsatisfactory, in spite of the satisfactory
supervision efforts in the last years which were not enough to compensate for lending development
performance and supervision performance until 2000.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Unsatisfactory. The Government, through MSPBS, had relatively little ownership of the Project during the
preparation phase. Little or no effort was made to establish actual coordination links between the PCU
team and the regular departments of the MSPBS and health authorities in the Project area. This limited the
quality of Project design and placed the Project in an isolated position that did not lead to a successful
startup phase. As a result, Borrower preparation performance is considered unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. [We would rate the government's implementation performance as moderately
unsatisfactory if that option were available]. In spite of a highly unsatisfactory performance during the
initial years of Project implementation, the Government made an important effort to rescue the Project and
redirect Project activities during the second phase of Project implementation. Still, the ICR rates the
government performance in carrying out the Project as, overall, unsatisfactory. Given the acute health



                                                     - 25 -

needs of Paraguay and the very high infant and mortality rates, it is regrettable that a long startup period of
inefficient Project management delayed the achievement of Project benefits.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. [If we had the possibility, we would rate as moderately satisfactory]. As outlined above, the
performance of the implementing agency before restructuring of the Project was clearly unsatisfactory as
well. However, once the Project was revised, the MSPBS demonstrated effective support for the Project
and actively took measures to expedite implementation, both within the MSPBS itself and in the Finance
Ministry. The MSPBS authorities ensured transparent management procedures in the PCU even though in
some cases, there were difficulties due to the general inexperience with Bank norms and procedures and
there could have been more effective quality control instruments to help improve sector administration, and
more support for community participation and outreach activities. Overall, hence, this ICR rates the
implementing agency's performance over the entire Project duration as satisfactory, although moderately
satisfactory- if that option were available- would be more appropiate.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory. [If we had the possibility, we would rate as moderately unsatisfactory]. Taken the above
ratings together, the overall performance of the borrower during preparation and implementation of the
Project is rated as (moderately) unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be learned from the experience of this Project. In particular, the following are
especially important:

·        Baseline data and a realistic set (and targets) of monitoring and evaluation indicators need to
be defined at appraisal. As the experience with the Project shows, leaving such definition to actual
Project implementation is highly risky. The planned baseline survey was not carried out, making not only
the evaluation of the Project very difficult but also depriving Project management in the Government and
the Bank of an important tool which could indicate that corrective action would need to be taken. Further,
the specified target that a basic package of relevant health services would be delivered to the entire poor
population in the Project areas was, in hindsight, a too ambitious target. Realistic target setting for
investment Project (especially in sectors like health where many factors ­ many of which beyond health
service delivery per se ­ influence outcomes,) is pivotal. Finally, the selection of indicators should be
limited to a rather limited number of relevant and collectable list.

·        Project ownership across different levels of the institution is key to ensure continuity of
Project implementation and adequate level of implementation: The objectives and strategies of a social
development Project succeed only in so far as they are fully supported. To achieve this, concerted efforts to
engage key members of the Government, the executing agency and the targeted communities as actors in
the Project need to be made from the earliest stages of Project preparation. This will also serve to align
Project interventions to existing programs that are familiar to those actors. Even a well designed Project, if
carried out in isolation, faces a high risk of not succeeding in reaching its objectives.

·        Training and retraining strategies need to be part of a staff development system that
considers not only the skill needs by level, but also the adequate methodologies to transmit said skills
to different types and levels of personnel, including on the job-training. Any training needs to be
followed-up by close supervision as part of a "mentoring/apprenticeship" approach. In terms of procedures,
it is also important that there is continuous technical support and training to the members of the PCU from
the Bank team, particularly in less developed countries. In Paraguay, the new PCU team (since 2000) did



                                                      - 26 -

not participate in Bank training and this made their work much more difficult. Yet, the frequent and
well-staffed supervision missions carried out during the second phase of Project implementation helped the
new team revise the Project and improve implementation significantly.

·         Implementation arrangement need to be carefully tailored to institutional capacity of the
client country and closely monitored during Project implementation. The importance of this rather
basic lesson cannot be overstressed, as witnessed when analyzing the Paraguay Project at hand which was
greatly impacted from a too broad and ambitious design, coupled with an institutional set-up that made the
functional integration of the Project (and it's administration unit) in the line structure of the Ministry
difficult. Further, in settings where administrative and implementation capacity is weak, Project activities
centered around action-driven implementation of service delivery and their subsequent scaling-up can be
more effective than plans of fundamental institutional change. It is also important to constantly monitor the
institutional arrangement in such environments during Project implementation and to adopt modifications, if
necessary. This holds also for implementation arrangements such as counterpart financing requirements,
for example, which ­ as was the case in Paraguay ­ might need to be quickly reviewed and changed in
situations of crisis.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Final comments from the Ministry of Health on behalf of the Borrower were received on June 14, 2005. A
copy of the comments is included as an additional Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
 Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 Not applicable

10. Additional Information


Notes:

[1] The MSPBS has divided the country into health regions based on the departmental structure; the Project
focused on six underserved departments.

[2] These include: Surgery, Anesthesia, Control of Complicated Deliveries, Family Planning, Clinical Vigilance
During Labor, Pre-and Post-Natal Care, Newborn Care and Referral.

[3] The 8FOE&1N study observed and surveyed all the health facilities in the six regions. Team composition and
supervisors were virtually identical.

[4] Specifically the survey measured whether pregnant women had their blood pressure taken and their anti-tetanus
vaccination in accordance with their visits.

[5] Given the time available, the MSPBS prioritized the IEC activities in these three departments, as being
representative of the universe of the Project areas.


[6] In recent years, poverty increased in Paraguay and particularly in the Project areas. The results presented in
this section should be considered with this in mind as it may have had a negative impact on access to basic services
by the poor. Moreover, given the unreliability of the institutional data it is very difficult to properly assess service




                                                        - 27 -

coverage.




ICR Team:
Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo, ICR Task Team Leader, LCSHH
Jesko S. Hentschel, Country Sector Leader , LCSHD
Martha P. Vargas, Team Assistant, LCSHD
Natalia Moncada, Program Assistant, LCSHD

Comments received from:
Suzana Campos Abbott, Lead Operations Officer, LCSHD
Evangeline Javier, Sector Director, LCSHD
Cristian C. Baeza, Acting Sector Leader/ Sr. Health Specialist, LCSHH
Peter M. Hansen, Country Manager, LCCPY
Felipe Saez, Lead Country Officer, LCC7C




                                                  - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Evolution of Project indicators and sources of data.

When the Project was first designed the team presented 84 indicators in the SAR (53 output and 31
outcome indicators) which proved difficult to monitor and use in evaluating Project outputs and results. In
August 1999, as the Project seemed to start picking up, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to review the
numerous indicators and reduce them to 10 (6 health outcome indicators and 4 output indicators). The
following were the chosen indicators:

    ·    Reduction in the number of reported cases of induced abortion in regional hospitals.

    ·    Reduction in perinatal mortality rate

    ·    Reduction in infant mortality due to obstetric causes by department.

    ·    Women receiving pre-natal care who also receive full immunization against tetanus for the
         country and by department as % of total.

    ·    Increase in the % of patients in regional hospitals that were referred by lower-complexity
         health units.

    ·    Coverage of children less than one year of age in regional hospitals, by department.

    ·    Coverage of children less than 5 years of age in regional hospitals, by department.

    ·    Auxiliary nurses trained in Project Area (six departments) by year for obstetrics and common
         childhood illnesses: (a) Obstetrics Nurses; (b) Childhood Illnesses Nurses

    ·    Midwives trained by year.

    ·    Health centers that have oral contraceptives.


However, by the end of 2001, as the Project was ready to be restructured, it was clear that these indicators
were even more difficult to measure than the previous ones, and could only be measured through
administrative data which was known to be unreliable, instead of through surveys as planned in the SAR.
The Government and the team decided to revisit the indicators to select some key measures from the
original list, using as the main criterion that they could be measured through the national survey, or through
the 2001 eight obstetric and one neonatal function survey (8FOE&1N) which had been the bases for the
restructuring. The one exception is maternal mortality, which has never been measured in Paraguay in
recent years and the figures for which are based on reported deaths. Since reporting has improved, the
tendency in this measure is upward.

The final list basically corresponded to the key impact indicators on page 73 of the SAR (Annex 8) and
adaptations of the two impact indicators on infrastructure and equipment subcomponent in page 74. The
latter two were expanded to correspond with the 8FOE&1N survey.




                                                      - 29 -

                                    Table A.1. Key Performance Indicators
           Indicators                                                                           1996                   2004
1. Infant mortality rate whole country (base line 1996) 1/                                      27**                   29**
2. Neonatal Mortality rate (base line 1996) 1/                                                                           17
3. Maternal Mortality (baseline 1996, latest estimate 2002) . 2/                                101.2                  182.1
4. Percentage of pregnant women that had at least one neonatal visit                           88.0%                  94.2%
during their pregnancy. National. 3/
5. Percentage of pregnant women who had at least one prenatal visit                            54.0%                  68.0%
during the first trimester of their pregnancy. National. 3/
6. Percentage of institutional deliveries. National . 3/                                       56.3%                  74.1%
7. Percentage of newborns that had their neonatal controls. 3/                                 79.0%                  90.1%
    Urban Areas                                                                                93.1%                  95.3%
    Rural areas                                                                                74.1%                  83.4%
8. Immunization coverage in children from 12-23 months. National. 3/                           49.8%                  65.2%
   Urban                                                                                       59.4%                  65.8%
   Rural                                                                                       42.8%                  64.4%
9. Percentage of health staff that applies the AIEPI (IMCI) strategy.                           49%                    58%
Project areas4/.
10. Percentage of health facilities that have all necessary equipment                          36.8%                  51.9%
functioning to perform deliveries according to their level of complexity, in
Project areas (base line 2001)5/
** Differences are not statistically significant.
1/ Data from the 1995-96 and the 2004 National Demography, Sexual and Reproductive Health Surveys.
2/ Reported deaths from the Bio-statistics Department of the MSPBS, as reported in the PAHO Core Health Data website. Statistics maternal
mortality have improved substantially thanks to the Project-supported maternal mortality vigilance committees. The biggest jump in maternal death
reported was between 1999-2001 (114.4- 160.7) just as the PSM and UNICEF instituted said vigilance committees in the different parts of the
country.
3/ Data from the 1998 and the 2004 National Demography, Sexual and Reproductive Health Surveys.
4/ Data from UNICEF and AIEPI Project Survey
5/ Data from the 8 FOES and 1 N study.

It is important to signal that national child mortality rates in the ENDSSR refer to a 5 year period (March
1999-February 2004), and have a confidence interval of +/- 5% for the national level figures. Urban v.s.
Rural mortality rates refer to a 10 year period (1994-2004), and have a confidence interval of +/- 10%.

The Project financed several studies during its implementation period:




                                                                      - 30 -

Table A.2: Principal Studies Financed by the Project
Completion               Name                                Main Findings and Lessons Learned
Date
1997           Health Network Study       Assisted in setting priorities for investment by department.
1998           Culture, Gender and        Helped to understand determinants of fertility in Paraguay.
               Fertility
2001           "Diagnóstico de las Ocho   The study covered 6 regional hospitals, 27 health centers, and 195 health
               Funciones Obstétricas      outreach posts. The results of the study were useful to: (a) design a staff
               Esenciales y Una           training plan addressing the weaknesses identified, particularly in the
               Neonatal"                  areas of AIEPI Red Obstetrica.
2001           "AIEPI baseline study"     Established base-line values for MEPI program
2001           "Safe Blood Study"         Design of a feasible and effective blood supply system for the six health
                                          departments of the project, including: transfusion units, promotion of
                                          voluntary blood donors, and training of human resources.
2001           "Training Impact Study"    This study shows that most health care providers (91%) do not use the
               by the MSPBS               integrated AIEPI approach to child health care, an estimated 21% of the
                                          establishments have equipment and supplies necessary for AIEPI practice,
                                          but only 3.8% have the necessary basic drugs. These results are difficult
                                          to interpret in the absence of baseline data.
2004           "Second Training Impact    Based on the study of 30% of the child health care personnel who
               Study" by the MSPBS        received training, the study found that 58% applied the AIEPI protocol in
                                          their daily care of children--more than five times the number who did so
                                          in 2001. However, the scarcity of drugs and supplies still affects 65% of
                                          the establishments surveyed.
2004           "Diagnóstico final de las  It gave data about the improvements on efficiency and quality of care in
               Ocho Funciones             all the Project areas health facilities alter Project implementation.
               Obstétricas Esenciales y
               Una Neonatal"




                                                      - 31 -

     Table A.3: Paraguay Sample of Infrastructure Subprojects
                             Original             Revised/Estimated               Total             Contract     Type1/
        Start Date      Completion Date            Completion Date          Execution Period Value (US$)


   1        9-Aug-02             9-Feb-03          5-Mar-04                        300               88,268     *ER
   2        6-Aug-02             6-Feb-03          5-Mar-04                        300              184,916     ER
   3        1-Nov-02            1-Apr-03           4-Apr-03    complete            325               48,877     ER
   4        16-Jul-02           16-Jan-03          5-Mar-04                        180              155,462     ER
   5        2-Sep-02             2-Feb-03          30-Jul-03   complete            330               49,466     ER
   6        3-Oct-02            3-Mar-03         11-Sep-03     complete            300               49,433     ER
   7        4-Oct-02            4-Mar-03        13-Aug-03      complete            300               49,833      *R
   8       22-Oct-02           22-Mar-03         19-Dec-03                         175               47,516      R
   9      11-Nov-02            11-Apr-03          16-Jun-03    complete            170               49,271      R
 10       13-Aug-02            13-Feb-03         10-Oct-03     complete            390               40,435      ER
 11         1-Oct-02            1-Apr-03         17-Sep-03                         330               63,524      ER
 12        11-Dec-02           11-May-03         11-Sep-03     complete            265               48,630      ER
 13        12-Dec-02           12-May-03         18-Sep-03     complete            265               49,103      New
 14         8-Nov-02            8-Apr-03         13-Oct-03     complete            330               48,723      R
                                                                                 3960               973,457
     Average subproject cost = USD                             $64,897
     Average subproject completion =                             264       days
Source: Medina, Gabriel (2003). "Informe General: Misión de Supervisión y Evaluación de la Calidad y Progreso de Obras
de Infraestructura--Noviembre 28 a Diciembre 9, 2003." Asunción, Diciembre 10, 2003.
*ER: Extensive rehabilitation ; **R: Modest rehabilitation




                                                          - 32 -

   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$million equivalent) 1/

                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate  Estimate      Appraisal
                          Component
    Component A: Maternal-Child Health Care               20.14        19          94.3%
    A.l Infrastructure and Equipment SubProjects         11.24       15.64
    A.2 Pharmaceuticals and Supplies                      6.65       2.33
    A.3 Information, Education and Communication          1.19       0.94
    A.4 Training                                          1.05       0.06


    Component B: Early Childhood Development               2.12      0.16          7.54%
    B.1 Management Training                               0.12       0.04
    B.2 Rehabilitation of Centers                         0.20       0.05
    B.3 Training for Caregivers                           0.12       0.002
    B.4 Operation of Centers                              1.61       -----


    Component C: Support for Decentralization              1.20      1.45         120.8%
    C.1 Management Training                               0.12       0.015
    C.2 Information System Support                        0.81       0.88
    C.3 Strengthening of Supervision                      0.07       0.55
    C.4 Pilot Fund                                        0.20         -----


    Component D: Project Administration, Monitoring        3.17      3.29         103.7%
    and Evaluation


    PPF                                                   0.45       0.18           40%


    Total Baseline Cost                                   27.05
                         Contingencies                     4.17      0.00


                          Total Project Costs             31.22      24.07        77.09%



                   Total Financing Required               31.22      24.07        77.09%
   1/ Figures may not add up due to rounding.




                                                   - 33 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$million equivalent) 1/


        Expenditure Category               ICB 2/       NCB 2/          Other 3/        N.B.F. 2/     Total Cost
   Works                                                   6.3              0.4                           6.7
                                                          (4.5)            (0.7)                         (5.2)
   Goods                                    5.3            0.8              0.9                           7.0
                                            (2.3)         (0.7)            (2.4)                         (5.4)
   Vehicles                                                                                0.7            0.7
                                                                                          (0.0)          (0.0)
   Pharmaceuticals and Medical
   Supplies                                  1.7                            0.5                           2.3
                                            (3.6)                          (0.2)                         (3.8)
   Training and Consulting                                                  4.8                           4.8
                                                                           (1.1)                         (1.1)
   Maintenance of Equipment                                                 0.2                           0.2
                                                                           (1.0)                         (1.0)


   PPF Refinancing                                                          0.2                           0.2
                                                                           (0.4)                         (0.4)
   Incremental Recurrent Costs                                                             2.0            2.0
                                                                                          (0.0)          (0.0)
      Total                                  7.0           7.1              7.0            2.7            23.9
                                            (5.9)         (5.2)            (5.9)          (0.0)          (17.0)


       1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
            contingencies.
        2/ /ICB = International Competitive Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; NBF = Not Bank
            Financed
        3 //Includes three quotations for minor civil works (US$0.8 M); National shopping for goods (US$2.7
            M); International shopping for goods (US$0.5 M); Limited International Bidding (LIB) (US$1.4
            M); National shopping for pharmaceuticals and medical supplies (US$0.5 M); and services of
            contracted staff of the Project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
            incremental operating costs related to maintenance for equipment and information systems (US$3.3
            M).




                                                                 - 34 -

Allocation of the Proceeds of IBRD Loans 4086-PY and 4087-PY
                 Original Allocation (US$million)


                               Loan 40860   Loan 40870    TOTAL
1. Works                          2.370        3.329       5.699


2. Goods:
2-A Pharmaceuticals               1.790        1.000       2.790
2-B Equipment                     1.735        3.200       4.935
2-C Furniture                     0.085        0.030       0.115
2-D Other                         0.760        0.180       0.940


3. Consultants' Services          2.115        1.850       3.965


4. Training                       0.520        0.450       0.970


5. Maintenance                    0.485       200,000      0.685


6. Other Operating Costs          0.070        0.161       0.231


7. PPF                            0.225          0         0.225


Unallocated                       0.745        0.500       1.245


          TOTAL                  10.900        10.900      21.800




                                                     - 35 -

                   Allocation of the Proceeds of IBRD Loans 4086-PY and 4087-PY
                                     Latest Estimate (US$million)  1/

                                                                                     Latest
                                                                                 Estimate as
          Categories                Loan 40860     Loan 40870         Total 2/  Percentage of
                                                                                   Appraisal
1. Works                                3.201          3.160            6.71         111.6


2. Goods:
2-A Pharmaceuticals                     0.846          0.972           1.818         139.2
2-B Equipment                           3.440          3.431           6.871         139.2
2-C Furniture                           0.015          0.027           0.042          36.5
2-D Other                               0.111          1.387           1.498         159.4


3. Consultants' Services                0.519          0.368           0.887          22.4


4. Training                             0.060          0.368           0.428          44.1


5. Maintenance                          0.054          0.112           0.166          24.2


6. Other Operating Costs                0.181          0.094           0.275         119.0


PPF


SA                                      0.401          0.383           0.784          63.0


TOTAL                                  10.570          10.126         20.696          94.9
Available                               0.033          0.774           0.807           3.7

1/As of May 13, 2004.
2/Taking into account the SA, a total of US$1.591 million remains to be documented, or the equivalent of
  7.3% of the total amount of both loans.




                                                              - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                    Not applicable.




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Lending
              02/14/1994               3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (2)
              05/19/1994               3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (2)
              11/1/1994                3    TASK
                                            MANAGER/ECONOMIST (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              03/27/1995               7    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (4);
                                            ECONOMIST (1); PUBLIC
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              04/22/1995               1    REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH
                                            SERVICES SPECIALIST (1)
              07/30/1995               6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (4)
              09/12/1995               4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (2)
              11/9/1995                2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
              01/15/1996               6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (2);
                                            IMPLEMENTATION
                                            ARRANGEMENTS
                                            SPECIALIST (1); RESIDENT
                                            MISSION STAFF (1)
              05/20/1996               2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              10/24/1997               4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1); TASK
                                            ASSISTANT (1)
              05/22/1998               6    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            ANALYST (1);
                                            TELECOMMUNICATIONS




                                             - 38 -

                SPE (1); TASK ASSISTANT (1)
12/08/1998    3 MISSION LEADER (1);           S     S
                MID-WIFE NURSE (CONS.)
                (1); ENGINEER (CONS.) (1)
08/05/1999    1 TASK MANAGER (1)              HU    U
12/08/1999    6 TEAM LEADER (1);              U     U
                FINANCIAL MGT./ORG. (1);
                PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1);
                INMUNIZATIONS (PAHO) (1);
                SECTOR LEADER (1)
02/11/2000    7 TEAM LEADER (1); PUBLIC       U     U
                HEALTH (2); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1);
                PROCUREMENT (1); HEALTH
                INVESTMENTS (1);
                IMMUNIZATIONS (PAHO) (1)
06/09/2000    6 TEAM LEADER (1);              S     U
                CONSULTANT (4); PAHO (1)
09/15/2000    2 TASK MANAGER/HEALTH SP        S     U
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1)


03/30/2001    2 TASK MANAGER (1);             S     S
                VACCINES SPECIALIST (1)
05/25/2001    9 TASK MANAGER (1);             S     S
                HEALTH ECONOMIST
                (1);PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                CONSULTANT (1);
                DISBURSMENTS ANALYST
                (1);SOCIAL
                COMUNICATIONS (1);
                ENGINEER (1); FM
                SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                LEADER (1)
10/25/2001    6 TASK MANAGER (1);             S     S
                DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIST
                (1) HEALTH ECONOMIST
                (1);PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER
                (1);MD CONSULTANT
01/18/2002    4 TASK MANAGER                  S     S
MID TERM        (1);PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); IEC
                SPECIALIST (1); MD
                CONSULTANT (1)
04/30/2002    4 TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC      S     S
                HEALTH CONSULTA (1);
                FINANACIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); COMUNICATION
                SPECIALIST (1)




                - 39 -

               09/26/2002                     4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S              S
                                                  CONSULTANT(1);COMUNICA
                                                  TION SPECIALIST
                                                  (1);ARCHITECT
                                                  CONSULTANT (1)
               05/31/2003                     3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S              S
                                                  CONSULTANT (1);
                                                  CONSULTANT-ARCHITECT
                                                  (1)
               09/12/2003                     5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);FM              S              S
                                                  SPECIALIST (1);
                                                  CONSULTANT-ARCHITECT
                                                  (1); ECONOMIST (1); EDU.
                                                  SPECIALIST (1)
               12/15/2003                     4   TASK TEAM LEADER                     S              S
                                                  (1);CONSULTANT-ARCHITEC
                                                  T (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST;
                                                  ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
               05/28/2004                     6   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S              U
                                                  SECTOR MANAGER- LCSHH
                                                  (1); COUNTRY SECTOR
                                                  LEADER (1); HEALTH
                                                  SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                  MGMT.ANLST. (1);
                                                  CONSULTANT ENVIR+S.DEV
                                                  (1)

 ICR
               06/25/2004                    4     TASK TEAM LEADER                    S              U
                                                   (1);FM SPECIALIST
                                                   (1);PROCUREMENT
                                                   SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                                   SECTOR
                                                   CONSULTANT/ICR (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Lending                                         0                           265
  Supervision                                 96.23                           728
  ICR                                          5.53                            44
  Total                                      106.76                         1,037
*These figures are based in the current information found in SAP.         The figures for identification,
preparation, appraisal and negotiations have been estimated and added under one category (Lending). Data
for FY95 until FY97 is provided by total amounts without disaggregating by number of staff weeks and
Project cycle stage.




                                                   - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


García Calvente, Dra. María del Mar. 2001. "Consultoría Internacional para el
Acompañamiento del Diagnóstico de las Ocho Funciones Obstétricas Esenciales y una Neonatal en
las Regiones Sanitarias del PSM: Informe Final." Escuela Andaluza de Salud Pública, Granada,
España.

Medina, Gabriel. 2003. "Informe Final sobre el Estado de las 19 Obras Pendientes de Terminación
Relacionadas en la Anterior Misión de Junio, 2003." Asunción, Diciembre 10, 3002.

World Bank. 1996. "Staff Appraisal Report, Paraguay, Maternal Health and Child Development
Project." Report No. 15610-PA. Washington, DC, August 13, 1996.

_________. 1966, "Loan Agreement (Loan Number 4086-PA)." Washington, DC, September 29,
1996.

_________.1966. "Loan Agreement (Loan Number 4087-PA)." Washington, DC, September 29,
1996.

_________.2001. "Ayuda Memoria Misión del 21 de mayo al 25 de mayo de 2001." Asunción,
Paraguay.

_________. 2001. "Ayuda Memoria Misión del 22 al 25 de octubre de 2001." Asunción,
Paraguay.

_________. 2002. "Ayuda Memoria Misión del 6 al 18 de enero de 2002." Asunción, Paraguay.
(Midterm Review)

_________. 2002. "Ayuda Memoria Misión del 20 al 30 de abril de 2002." Asunción, Paraguay.

_________. 2003. "Ayuda Memoria Misión del 4 al 12 de septiembre de 2003." Asunción,
Paraguay.

_________. 2003. "Ayuda Memoria Misión del 29 de noviembre al 12 de diciembre de 2003."
Asunción, Paraguay.

_________. 2004. "Ayuda Memoria Misión del 27 de marzo al 2 de abril de 2004." Asunción,
Paraguay.




                                                 - 43 -

Annex 8. Summary of Post Project Evaluation of Coverage, Quality and Efficiency in the
Delivery of Basic Maternal and Child Health Care Services in the Project Area.




Methodology

As part of the Project revision in 2001, and in order to establish a baseline and be able to measure
improvements (given poor institutional data), the MSPBS carried out a baseline survey of the performance
of eight essential obstetric and one neonatal functions in the health facilities of the six Project departments.
A follow-up outcome survey was carried out in 2004. These surveys consisted of fieldwork that covered
all public health establishments in the Project area, or a total of 237 in 2001 and 335 in 2004. In each
facility, approximately 15 to 22 health professionals responded to a questionnaire appropriate for the level
of service performed in the facility. Both essential and complementary procedures for each function were
examined in the surveys. The quality of these surveys is considered excellent in terms of reliability and
comprehensiveness.

The original survey in 2001 (baseline) included only the Project-supported departments. However, in 2004,
for comparative purposes, the MSPBS decided to include two neighboring non-Project departments
(Caaguazú and Caazapá) that were known to have witnessed significant improvements in general indicators
from 1992-94. Although it is clear that the two new departments would not really be comparable, it was
decided to measure the situation to have some sense of the general trends in the rest of the country during
the years of Project implementation (except Central and Asuncion, which have their particular dynamics).
The two non-Project departments were selected based on their general comparability to the six Project
departments, although they are known to have a lower level of poverty and better services than the
Project-supported areas.     Both non-Project departments received support through an Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) loan during the same time period. Caazapá was also supported beginning in 2002
by PAHO, through technical assistance to improve personnel skills and a public insurance Project.

In addition to assess infant/child health outcomes, the PCU carried out a baseline, an intermediate and a
final assessment (after training and supervision) of the implementation of the AIEPI in the Project areas.
UNICEF also carried a global assessment of the implementation of AIEPI in the entire country. Finally,
the MSPBS's National Direction of Social Communication carried out Knowledge, Attitude and Perception
(KAP) studies before and after a few months of the implementation of the Project-financed IEC activities.

Overall Findings

The 2004 outcome survey used prenatal care and institutional deliveries as a proxy for health services
coverage (the 2001 survey did not include coverage data). Unfortunately, the statistics provided by the
MSPSB Department of Biostatistics are based on incomplete and tardy reporting by departments and
facilities, and have a large margin of error [6]. For example, the MSPSB estimates that 2002 births and
deaths are respectively 48 and 36 percent under-registered. Data on the use of health facilities is similarly
unreliable.


Considering these data limitations, institutional deliveries in Project departments increased by 3.8 percent
compared to 2.3 percent in the rest of the country and 2 percent in the two neighboring departments,
thereby helping to bridge the gap between the Project area and the country as a whole (see Table 1). In
addition, the capacity to carry out at-risk institutional deliveries increased in the Project area by 8.7 percent


                                                      - 44 -

from 2001 to 2003.

    Table 1. Number and Percentage of Institutional Deliveries in Project and Non-project
    Departments
                                              2001                               2003
    Departments                NVR          Institutional    %       NVR      Institutional %
    Concepción                       3398           2409     70.9       3543         2547   71.9
    San Pedro                        3745           2692     71.9       4046         3019   74.6
    Alto Paraná                      8791           6394     72.7       8109         6123   75.5
    Amambay                          1471           1311     89.1       1263         1128   89.3
    Canindeyu                        1746           1143     65.5       1439         1100   76.4
    Alto Paraguay                      119             93    78.2        160           128  80.0
    Project Departments             19270         14042      72.9      18560        14045   75.7
    Project at risk
    deliveries/total                                         18.3                           19.9
    Paraguay TOTAL                  83919         71736      85.5      83000        72616   87.5
    Source: Dept. Bioestadistica, MSPBS (2004).
    Note: Data for 2003 are provisory; NVR=registered live births




Since the 2001 baseline survey did not collect coverage data on prenatal care for pregnant women, it is not
possible to assess outcomes in the Project areas. However, the 2004 survey did show that the quality of
neonatal visits was very good as a substantially high percentage of women were vaccinated and had their
blood pressure measured (see section on improvements in quality below). Yet when compared to
non-Project departments, not as many women in the Project-supported departments had more than four
prenatal consultations (see Table 2). However, it should be noted that international standards indicate that
the number of visits needed to impact maternal and neonatal mortality is three.

            Table 2: Number of Prenatal Consultations by Region and Type of Facility 2004
                                                     Number of prenatal consultations as % of
                                                     total pregnant women served
                                                                 3- 4             5 to 9
             Project Departments
                Hospitals                                        65.0             35.0
                Health Centers                                   57.8             42.2
                Health Posts                                     59.3             40.7
                 Total Project Departments                       62.1             37.9
             Non-Project Departments (*)                         59.2             40.8
         Source: op.cit. (May 2004).
         (*) Ca'aguazy and Ca'azapa



Regarding health care coverage for children and infants, institutional records on child health care at the
regional hospitals in the Project area show improvements in coverage from 55.1 percent in 1997 to 61.5
percent in 2004 (although given the quality of data these figures, should be taken with caution).

Vaccination coverage in the Project areas and in the country improved during the Project period mainly due
to the Project-financed establishment of the cold chain and the constant support for Project-financed
vaccination activities.



                                                         - 45 -

Neonatal mortality declined 11 percent between 1997-2003 in the Project departments. Mortality rates of
children under age five also declined in the Project departments (MSPBS institutional data).

Improvements in Quality

Improvements in quality were easier to assess because both the eight FOEs&1N surveys and the AIEPI
assessment reviewed quality and efficiency parameters. In both studies, quality was measure by the
presence and functionality of the infrastructure and equipment, and presence of the required qualified
personnel, needed to perform the identified functions and or tasks. It also evaluated the technical
competence of the personnel through observation of the tasks performed.

The 8FOE&1N functions, the quality of services in the Project area hospitals improved by over 15 percent,
on average achieving a 71.6 percent satisfactory performance compared to 62 percent in 2001 (see Table
3). The only exception is a slight decline in the score for the referral function, which in fact is good news
because it reflects the improved capacity of the Project hospitals to treat obstetric and neonatal patients in
situ.

               Table 3: Performance of Essential Obstetric and Neonatal Functions
                                         by Type of Facility: 2001-2004
                                                                    Project Departments
       Essential Functions                    Hospitals              Health Centers              Health Posts
                                          2004        2001-04       2004      2001-04          2004       2001-04
                                         Score          % ?         Score       % ?            Score         % ?
                                                       (percent                (percent                     (percent
                                                       change)                 change)                      change)
 1. Surgery                               75.2          16.6        60.8         5.7           46.5           0.4
 2. Anesthesia                            65.7          4.3         41.4        -3.5           31.9          -34.4
 3. Control of high obstetric             74.9          8.4         49.6        17.6           30.3          13.5
      risk
 4. Family planning                       78.4          5.2         70.8         0.0           70.2           7.3
 5. Clinical vigilance during             79.9          22.7        62.6         7.6           43.1          -5.1
      labor
 6. Blood transfusion                     57.0          36.0        10.8       -46.8           19.5       101.0
 7. Pre- and post-natal care              81.3          8.1         71.8         4.1           64.8          -5.1
 8. Care for the newborn                  67.9          22.8        71.8        24.7           42.6          -1.4
 9. Referral                              47.0          -6.2        37.5         7.1           31.0           9.5
      Total Project Area                  71.6          15.3        55.1        10.9           44.7           5.4
 Source: MSPyBS (May 2004) "Seguimiento a la Linea de Base del 2001 sobre el Diagnóstico de las Ocho Funciones
 Obstétricas Esenciales y Una Neonatal en las Regiones Sanitarias del PSM, además de las Regiones Sanitarias de
 Caaguazy y Caazapa."
 Note: The percent difference [?] is calculated as: (S2004-S2001)*100/S2001 where S is the performance score.


Although the improvements in health centers and posts seem more modest (55 percent and 45 percent
satisfactory performance respectively, the figures suggest a real improvement in the quality of health
services. Both the anesthetic and the blood transfusion functions have diminished in health centers. A
reduction on the anesthetic capacity at this level is somewhat worrisome. However, if we discount Alto
Paraguay from the list, the overall anesthetic function has been maintained. Regarding blood transfusion,
the national health policy discourages blood transfusion at this level, since there is not yet a functioning
blood bank network and most transfusions are done arm to arm. Likewise, health posts have seen those



                                                              - 46 -

functions that should not have been performed at their level reduced (with the exception of blood
transfusion, which needs to be monitored), and an increase in their essential function, family planning.

The 2004 survey on the quality of prenatal care shows good quality of care at all levels including health
posts. The survey measured whether pregnant women had their blood pressure taken and their anti-tetanus
vaccination in accordance with their visits. On average, the departments supported under the Project came
out ahead (see Graph 1).

                         Graph 1: Quality of Prenatal Care, 2004

                           Women that had their Blood Pressure Taken
                          and Correctly Vaccinated in Antenatal Care (%)


  100.0%
   90.0%
   80.0%
   70.0%
   60.0%                                                                              Blood pressure
   50.0%
   40.0%                                                                              Tetanus vaccine
   30.0%
   20.0%
   10.0%
    0.0%


          Pedro
       San                Amabay              Parana
               Concepcion        CanindeyuAlto          Paraguay  Caaguazu Caazapa

                                                    Alto




Finally, UNICEF's AIEPI assessment shows that in 2004, in the Project-supported departments, 58 percent
of the health staff apply AIEPI in daily practice. This figure represents an overall improvement of 9
percent over the 2001 baseline. Most importantly, almost all the improvement was at the level of nursing
assistants, which are responsible for 85 percent of pediatric outpatient pediatric visits. Overall, nurse
assistants applied AIEPI in 20 percent more of their pediatric outpatient consultations compared to the
baseline.      When measuring the same indicator in the Project-supported departments (except Alto
Paraguay), the increase in the use of AIEPI among nurse assistants reaches 30 percent on average. This
increase was greater in the departments that started with lower levels of implementation of this national
strategy. Empiric observation demonstrated that by using the AIEPI strategy, nurse assistants where able
to diagnose and treat/or refer children better. Fewer nurses and doctors applied the strategy because they
found it too basic. Thus, the application of AIEPI needs to be reviewed in terms of how best to target
training and supervision.




                                                                - 47 -

Improvements in Efficiency

The level of efficiency of health facilities is measured as a function of: (a) the abilities demonstrated by the
staff, (b) the physical plant, (c) the equipment, (d) the supplies and drugs, and (e) the availability of
essential health personnel. Although Project interventions addressed most of these efficiency conditions,
the availability of health personnel (and to a lesser extent that of drugs and supplies) are outside the control
of the Project. Nevertheless, all efficiency conditions are better in 2004 than in 2001 and surpass those in
non-Project departments, with the exception of availability of supplies and drugs (see Table 4). Hospital
efficiency reached 71.6 percent in Project-supported departments compared to 71.1 percent in non-Project
departments; Project health centers exceed by 20.3 percent those in non-Project departments, and health
posts are practically identical (see Annex 1). It is interesting to note that actual performance scores in
Project facilities in 2004 improved compared to 2001 at higher rates than efficiency conditions, suggesting
high motivation on the part of the staff to deliver better services.

         Table 4: Efficiency Conditions in all health facilities
                 Dimensions of Efficiency                           2004 Score                2001-2004 % ·
    1. Ability of health personnel                                      62.3                       7.6
    2. Physical plant                                                   50.4                       2.5
    3. Equipment                                                        51.9                      15.1
    4. Supplies                                                         35.3                      -6.9
    5. Availability of health personnel                                 36.0                       7.1
             Overall Efficiency
                   Project Departments                                  47.0                       7.6
                   Non-Project Departments                              46.8                       (*)
    Source: op.cit. (May 2004).
    (*) Ca'aguazy and Ca'azapa The 2001 survey was not carried out in non-Project departments.



Graph 2 highlights the improvements made to the physical plant and availability of medical equipment as
the most important Project impact on efficiency levels of health facilities. A 7.1 percent increase in the
availability of health personnel is a commendable achievement on the part of the MSPBS and reflects
support to and ownership of the Project by the Ministry. However, the unreliable availability of drugs and
supplies remains the most challenging problem facing the Project departments and possibly the entire health
care system in Paraguay.




                                                        - 48 -

Graph 2: Changes in Efficiency Conditions in the Health Facility in the Project Departments
                                       2001-2004

   25

   20                                        20.3

   15                                                        15.1

   10
                7.6                                                                     7.1
     5
                              2.5
     0
            TOTAL       DESTREZAS    PLANTA FISICA   EQUIPAMIENTO   SUMINISTROS    RECURSOS

    -5                                                                             HUMANOS

                                                                           -6.9
  -10


                                      CONDICIONES ESENCIALES



                                  Source: op.cit. (May 2004).


Efficiency conditions affect the performance of essential obstetric and neonatal functions in different ways,
depending on the type of health facility. Detailed data on these relationships are shown in Section 10.
Highlights of some of the essential functions are provided below.

·   Surgical procedures in hospitals improved by 21.2 percent, particularly with respect to
    physical plant (31.8 percent), supplies (43.5 percent) and availability of health personnel
    (49.4 percent), all of which are presently comparable to non-project departments.

·   Conditions for the performance of anesthesiology services in hospitals are 25.7 percent
    better than in non-project hospitals. Due to the MSPBS, the availability of anesthesiology
    staff in hospitals improved by 54.3 percent. Yet, efficiency losses were observed with respect
    to supplies and drugs, which declined by 84.1 percent.

·   Blood transfusion conditions improved by 35.4 percent in hospitals, but deteriorated in
    health centers (-54.5 percent) and remained approximately the same in health posts (-1.9
    percent). In hospitals, improvements in the availability of equipment (64.8 percent) and
    specialized health personnel (53.2 percent) largely account for the overall positive result.

·   For newborn care, hospitals show a 40 percent efficiency gain, largely due to improvements
    to the physical plant (50.4 percent), availability of supplies (59.6 percent) and presence of
    specialized health personnel (54.6 percent). At health centers and posts, conditions did not
    change significantly.

·   Pre- and post-natal care improved in hospitals by 26.2 percent due to better equipment and
    supplies. Conditions remained basically unchanged in health centers and posts.


Data by type of establishment are the most helpful to demonstrate Project impacts. As shown in Table 5,
the performance of health centers improved the most, even though more needs to be done to improve the
control of high obstetric risk health centers. Regarding hospitals, there has been an overall substantial
improvement and the hospitals in the Project-departments are better off than those in the non-Project



                                                         - 49 -

departments. However, the care for newborn babies function for the Project hospitals is slightly below
non-Project hospitals. In health posts, service quality is uneven: for some functions, performance is much
better than average while services are unavailable to perform other essential functions. This unevenness
creates vulnerability in the network as a whole. It should be noted however, that the substantial efforts
made by the Project to improve referrals through deployment of radio communications equipment and staff
training resulted in scores for this function that are significantly above those in non-Project departments.
The information by department shows some variation, as indicated in Table 5 below.

       Table 5: Performance of Essential Obstetric and Neonatal Functions by Department:
                                                        2001-2004
                                    Hospitals                    Health Centers                  Health Posts
     Department                2004           2001-04          2004         2001-04            2004      2001-04
                               Score            % ?            Score           % ?            Score        % ?
                                               (percent                       (percent                   (percent
                                               change)                        change)                     change)
   Alto Paraná                 82.5             13.0           60.1             6.9            50.2        2.4
   Alto Paraguay               43.6            -11.2           45.8             (*)            24.4       -30.7
   Amambay                     71.9              5.7           61.4            16.5            48.4        6.8
   Canindeyu                   78.3             39.1           66.2            18.0            44.1       10.0
   Concepción                  75.0             25.4           54.9            27.4            41.9        -6.1
   San Pedro                   67.4              1.8           50.1            23.7            44.4       10.2
 Total Project                 71.6             15.3           55.1            10.9            44.7        5.7
 Departments
 Non-Project                   71.1                            45.8                            45.2
 Departments (**)
 Project
 Departments                   75.0             15.9           58.5            17.7            45.8        4.3
 except Alto
 Paraguay
 Source: op.cit. (May 2004).
 Note: The formula used to calculate the percent difference is: (Score-04 ­ Score-01)*100/Score 01.
       (*) In 2001, the health centers in Alto Paraguay were not surveyed, due to access problems.
      (**) Ca'aguazy and Ca'azapa. These departments were not surveyed in 2001.



This type of analysis is extremely helpful to guide further action by the MSPBS aimed at future
improvements. Since the gaps are clearly identified, appropriate national strategies can be put in place to
remedy inefficient operating conditions and more precise regional action plans can be developed.

The only department that does not show improvement is Alto Paraguay, most likely because the Project
interventions in that department were completed near the end of the Project and their impact has not yet
been felt. As mentioned above, this department has only one percent of the Project area's population and
has the most severe poverty and access problems.

Regarding the efficiency of the application of the AIEPI strategy, in the baseline study, only 21 percent of
the health facilities had the adequate equipment, and medical and administrative material. Only 3.8 percent
of the evaluated services had the required basic drugs required to treat the basic childhood illnesses
according the AIEPI protocols. In the AIEPI evaluation in 2004, 100 percent of the health facilities had the
basic equipment and materials necessary to carry out the AIEPI program and 35 percent of the facilities
also had the pharmaceuticals to treat the basic illnesses.



                                                             - 50 -

The main conclusion that can be drawn from these data is that the Project had a positive impact on the
quality of obstetric and neonatal care affecting 1.5 million people, although much remains to be done. In
particular, the Project significantly improved the capacity of hospitals to perform obstetric surgery, provide
blood transfusions, care for the newborn, and exercise proper vigilance of patients during labor. During the
Project period (1997-2004), there were not significant improvements in infant and maternal mortality
indicators, but this is largely due to an improvement in reporting in the entire country as supported by the
Project.

In summary, overall outcomes are significant, particularly taking into account the extremely deficient
conditions prior to the Project. In addition, the Project helped the country take big step forward in the
health sector. Paraguay now has precise knowledge about what still needs to be done regarding the delivery
of quality health care services to improve maternal and infant health status and lower maternal and infant
mortality rates. The country has also gained the instruments to monitor progress properly as it continues
its efforts towards this goal.

Detailed findings by Department

It is important to note that the number of health facilities in the Project departments is extremely uneven in
relation to the population. While in the case of hospitals, this fact may be less relevant because their
capacity varies widely by department, in the case of health centers and posts, which tend to have similar
capacity, the lack of proportionality with respect to the demand is striking and may pose problems. For
example, a typical health center serves an average of 1,800 people in Alto Paraguay and 18,000 people in
Alto Paraná, and a typical health post serves an average of 14,500 in Alto Paraguay, and approximately
4,000 in Canindeyu, Concepción and San Pedro. Many of the health posts in the Project area are in fact
dispensaries lacking minimum operating capacity. Thus, a general conclusion to be drawn from the
available data is that a review of the regional network configuration is an important task that deserves the
attention of the MSPBS. The following paragraphs discuss the main challenges or each department with
respect to basic obstetric and neonatal care.

                                               (a) Alto Paraná

The population of Alto Paraná accounts for 44.5 percent of the total population in the Project area. As a
result of the Project, obstetric and neonatal care health services in this department have improved with
respect to quality, efficiency and coverage. The two hospitals serving the department reached 82.5 percent
performance score for all essential functions, showing only one setback related to the provision of blood
transfusions (-8.6 percent) compared to 2001. The seven health centers in the department averaged a 60.1
percent performance score, showing an improvement of approximately 7 percent compared to conditions in
2001. In the 37 health posts of the department, the quality of care is still below minimum standards (50.2
percent), but has improved by 21 percent compared to conditions in 2001. In particular, health posts
improved significantly with respect to care for high obstetric risk patients and in the provision of blood
transfusions. For the obstetric network as a whole, this department is probably placing an excessive
burden on its hospitals because the number of health centers and posts seems small compared to the
population. This situation tends to increase the cost of health care because many patients who could be
served at lower-complexity facilities go to the hospitals for basic care. Among the existing health centers
and posts, improvements are still needed for the provision of anesthesiology services (38.8 percent) and
control of high obstetric risk patients (46.7 percent), functions that show lower performance levels
compared to 2001.



                                                    - 51 -

The positive results observed in this department reflect specific gains in efficiency resulting from Project
interventions. Yet, it should be noted that in spite of an overall performance that is above average, Alto
Paraguay still needs to improve efficiency conditions, particularly those showing scores below 50 percent
(shown in bold in the following table).




                                                   - 52 -

Table 6: Alto Paraná Department: Efficiency conditions for the performance of essential
               Obstetric and Neonatal functions in all health establishments in 2004
                                                         Efficiency Conditions
    Essential Functions          Total         Staff      Physical      Equip.     Drugs &    Available
                                             Ability        Plant                  Supplies      Staff
 Surgery                          65.3         79.3         69.7         71.8         44.1       53.4
                                  38.8         33.4         77.1         37.5         11.7       50.8
 Anesthesia
 Control of high OB risk          46.7         80.7         31.9         32.0         22.0       67.1
 Family planning                  79.4         86.9         90.0         81.4         86.8       55.7
 Clinical vigilance of labor      66.8         84.2         69.7         71.8         46.6       61.8
 Blood transfusion                43.0         43.0         45.0         54.4         40.0       33.9
 Pre- and post-natal care         70.3         91.4         82.8         79.1         56.3       37.2
 Care for the newborn             57.8         74.4         70.5         60.5         41.5       42.1
 Referrals                        39.8         38.1         NA           53.1         38.8       29.1
 Total                            54.4         64.2         59.2         58.3         41.2       45.3



Source: op.cit. (May 2004).


The infrastructure and equipment investments made in Alto Paraná are described below by type of facility.

(a) Regional Hospital of Ciudad del Este. This hospital was rehabilitated and its functions restructured.
Specifically, a maternity and infant care block was improved including areas for children's therapy,
emergency care, consulting rooms, and administrative and service areas. In addition, external areas were
rehabilitated to facilitate access to the hospital.      Unfortunately, due to less than efficient hospital
administration, the surgery room built for at risk deliveries is not yet fully operational.

(b) District Hospital at Hernandarias. This is new hospital of 5,000 m2 and 68 beds. Facilities include an
emergency block, X-Ray, blood bank, laboratory, consultation rooms, pediatric and adult internment with
10 and 21 beds respectively, service block including laundry, sterilization room, kitchen, cafeteria, storage
space, morgue, and sanitary facilities. The hospital is provided with an air conditioner, medical gases,
water tank, and dormitory for physicians on turn, energy generator, vaccination room, administrative areas,
social services and education areas, central telephone exchange and radio room. The hospital is fully
furnished and equipped. A regional warehouse for vaccines equipped with a freezer and a refrigerator
compartment is the only part of the hospital that is not yet operational due to administrative problems at the
central and regional level.

(c) District Hospital at Minga Guazú. This existing hospital was expanded by 987 m2 and the remaining
1089 m2 was restructured.         New construction and equipment was provided for a surgery block,
maternal-child consultation rooms, infirmary, emergency care, recuperation room and pre-delivery care,
delivery room, sterilization facilities, administrative and general services area.

(d) Three health centers at Presidente Franco, Santa Rosa del Monday, and Ytaipyté were expanded and
improved.

(e) Three health posts located in rural settlements were improved, provided with additional beds and



                                                      - 53 -

facilities for simple deliveries, primary care and consultations.

                                               (b) Alto Paraguay

Alto Paraguay is the poorest department served by the Project, has the most difficult access conditions, the
smallest health facility network, and the lowest performance rates for essential obstetric and neonatal
functions in 2001 and 2004. Its population represents one percent of the total for the Project departments
and is in dispersed settlements along the Paraguay River. Compounding these problems, Project activities
in the department were the last to be completed with civil works finished in mid-October 2003 and
equipment starting to be delivered only after November 2003.           These various reasons explain why
performance scores in 2004 are low for all essential functions in the network.

The one hospital serving Alto Paraguay is located in the riverside city of Fuerte Olimpo. This hospital
shows improvements with respect to blood transfusions and pre- and post-natal control, but experienced
setbacks in anesthesiology services and referrals compared to 2001, but overall, the hospital performance
(43.6 percent) remains below acceptable levels. The two health centers in the department achieved a
combined score of 45.8 percent with marked fluctuations with respect to specific functions. Improvements
were observed in pre- and post-natal care, care for the newborn, and control of obstetric risk. For the other
functions, scores vary from extremely deficient for blood transfusion and referrals, to medium-low for
surgery, anesthesia, family planning, and clinical vigilance during labor. The average performance level of
the eight health posts in the department is only 24.4 percent (see Table below). In general, the Project has
had only a marginal impact on the efficiency conditions of health facilities in the departments, and the
network remains extremely deficient. It should be noted, however, that the lowest score was recorded for
availability of health personnel, which could not be corrected by the Project interventions.

 Table 7: Alto Paraguay Department: Efficiency conditions for the performance of essential
               Obstetric and Neonatal functions in all health establishments in 2004

                                                        Efficiency Conditions
    Essential Functions           Total        Staff     Physical     Equip.      Drugs &    Available
                                             Ability       Plant                  Supplies     Staff
 Surgery                           38.6        63.0        31.4       44.1          37.2       17.3
 Anesthesia                        23.5        26.4        38.8       25.0          8.3        25.0
 Control of high OB risk           23.9        60.6        13.6       16.6          23.1        5.6
 Family planning                   49.1        68.8        42.5       40.8          61.3       30.0
 Clinical vigilance of labor       36.8        62.5        31.4       42.9          29.7       17.3
 Blood transfusion                 10.4        16.2        20.0        5.6          8.3         0.0
 Pre- and post-natal care          48.9        52.5        61.3       56.0          56.3       20.8
 Care for the newborn              26.8        51.3        29.4       20.0          12.5       20.7
 Referrals                         19.8         6.9         NA        34.3          23.6       14.4
 Total scores in 2004              29.7        42.4        29.8       31.0          26.9       15.1
 Source: op.cit. (May 2004).



Investments made to improve the health infrastructure in this department include:

(a) Rehabilitation and maintenance of the Fuerte Olimpo Regional Hospital, including an expansion of 85
m2, restructuring of 590 m2 and repairs to 35 m2. As a result, the hospital now has functional areas for
external consultations, laboratories, X-ray, emergency care, maternity and neonatal care, administrative



                                                     - 54 -

and general services. A new telephone system was installed as well as sterilization facilities, kitchen,
cafeteria, morgue and pharmacy. An energy generator was installed along with complete medical and
industrial equipment that permit the full use of existing and new facilities.

(b) The Indigenous Dispensary at Fuerte Olimpio was repaired.

(c) Three health posts (Carmelo Peralta, Isla Margarita and Puerto Esperanza) were improved, with an
expansion to accommodate three beds, reception area, infirmary, consulting rooms, and delivery room and
general services areas. Two of these health posts are built on the river on stilts.

                                                (c) Amambay

This department is served by one hospital, two health centers and 15 health posts. The quality of obstetric
and neonatal health services in these facilities change only a little between 2001 and 2004. There were
however improvements in the rest of the functions. Thus overall there was an improvement of
approximately 16.5 percent is registered for health centers, followed by 8.5 percent for health posts and 5.7
percent for hospitals. Shortages of health personnel, drugs and supplies constitute the most serious
efficiency gaps in this department, and these strongly influence the overall low performance score.

 Table 8: Amambay Department: Efficiency Conditions for the performance of essential
              Obstetric and Neonatal functions in all health establishments in 2004

                                                        Efficiency Conditions
    Essential Functions         Total         Staff      Physical     Equip.       Drugs &  Available
                                            Ability        Plant                   Supplies    Staff
 Surgery                         53.7         80.1         41.6        76.0         25.2       45.8
 Anesthesia                      34.6         42.4         71.9        35.0          8.2       25.0
 Control of high OB risk         37.9         83.1         11.1        24.4          8.7       62.0
 Family planning                 82.7         88.7         90.0        91.1         78.3       67.8
 Clinical vigilance of labor     59.1         78.8         64.2        76.0         30.9       45.8
 Blood transfusion               37.4         44.1         54.2        44.4         31.3       12.5
 Pre- and post-natal care        77.3         93.3         93.3        90.2         66.7       39.6
 Care for the newborn            54.6         71.1         80.7        53.9         29.4       37.8
 Referrals                       41.9         33.7         NA          53.9         34.8       45.0
 Total                           51.4         53.8         50.1        50.0         27.0       36.6
 Source: op.cit. (May 2004).



Infrastructure investments in the Amambay Department comprise:

(a) Regional Hospital at Pedro Juan Caballero: This hospital was built with funds from a donation from
Japan. Project investment covered 1,500 m2 to house a dormitory for pregnant women, and high risk
infants and lactating babies and their family caretakers, intended for families whose home is located far
away from the hospital and therefore cannot commute often. This shelter was fully furnished and equipped.
In addition, the existing areas of the hospital were provided with preventive maintenance services and a
systematic maintenance program.

(b) The health center at Capital Bado was fully rehabilitated and provided with consultation rooms,
laboratory, emergency room, surgery, pre-delivery and delivery rooms, general services areas and morgue,



                                                     - 55 -

all fully furnished and equipped.

(c) Three health posts were expanded and given preventive maintenance services (Nandeyara Puente,
Aguará and San Roque). These health posts now have 3-4 beds each, waiting room, infirmary, delivery
room, consultation rooms and general services areas.

                                                (d) Canindeyu

This department stands out for having experienced substantial improvement in the delivery of essential
obstetric and neonatal services compared to 2001. Better performance is observed at all types of facilities
in the regional network. Overall, Canindeyu improved by 11.6 percent its performance, reflecting a 39.1
percent improvement in hospitals, 18 percent in health centers and 10 percent in health posts. While the
total performance score is still relatively low at 56.7 percent and more needs to be done, it is evident that
the Project had an important impact in this department. Project interventions contributed to establish the
basis for future improvements in the efficiency conditions of the network. The main gaps are those
observed with respect to availability of staff, drugs and supplies, which are largely outside the scope of the
Project.

 Table B.4: Canindeyu Department: Efficiency Conditions for the performance of essential
               Obstetric and Neonatal functions in all health establishments in 2004

                                                        Efficiency Conditions
     Essential Functions         Total        Staff     Physical     Equip.      Drugs &      Available
                                             Ability       Plant                 Supplies       Staff
 Surgery                          62.6        77.6         73.4        72.5         41.1        48.2
 Anesthesia                       52.9        61.1         83.9        70.0         8.9         58.3
 Control of high OB risk          38.0        78.7         34.4        16.4         11.1        49.3
 Family planning                  77.5        86.2         87.5        74.5         80.0        62.8
 Clinical vigilance of labor      64.4        78.6         73.4        72.5         49.1        48.2
 Blood transfusion                39.3        28.9         75.0        58.3         37.7         2.8
 Pre- and post-natal care         63.7        92.0         46.7        84.8         70.0        27.4
 Care for the newborn             54.0        65.4         81.3        59.6         29.3        34.4
 Referrals                        46.1        44.1         NA          52.4         40.0        48.1
 Total                            51.5        61.3         59.6        56.6         38.7        38.4
 Source: op.cit. (May 2004).



Eight health facilities in the Canindeyú Department directly benefited from Project investments. These are:

(a) Regional hospital at Salto del Guairá: this new 4,300 m2 hospital was provided with an emergency
block, a laboratory and x-ray block, blood bank, consultation rooms, a surgery block with two operating
rooms, a maternity and neonatal block with two delivery rooms, two surgery rooms, and 8 neonatal beds, a
10-bed pediatric internment block, a 24-bed adult internment block, and hospital services including
laundry, sterilization room, morgue, maintenance shop, kitchen, cafeteria and sanitary services, air
conditioner and supply of medical gases, water tank, energy generator, central telephone switchboard, and
radio communications facilities. The new hospital also houses a regional vaccine warehouse fully equipped
with two chambers for refrigeration and freezing, office space, deposit and machine room. The hospital
has been fully furnished, and equipped with medical, laboratory and industrial equipment.




                                                     - 56 -

(b) District Hospital at Curuguaty: This new hospital consists of a 2,600 m2 building housing blocks for
maternal/neonatal care, emergencies, maternity/deliveries, laboratory and x-ray, blood bank, consulting
rooms, pediatric and adult internment totaling 11 and 12 bed respectively, an a service block consisting of
laundry, kitchen, sterilization room, cafeteria, morgue, pharmacy, vaccination room, administrative
services, storage room, social services and education room. The building is air conditioned and has built-in
supply of medical gases, an energy generator for emergencies, a modern telephone exchange and radio
communications room.        All facilities were fully furnished and equipped with medical and industrial
equipment. Adjacent to the hospital a regional vaccine warehouse was built and equipped with two vaccine
chamber, one for refrigeration and another for freezing, offices for vaccination workers, a deposit and a
machine room.

(c) Six health posts in the department were expanded and received preventive maintenance. These are
located in Yasy Cañy, Manduara, Maracaná, Guyrá Kehá, Villa Ygatymí, and Ybyrárobaná.
Improvements consisted of adding emergency beds, consulting rooms, infirmaries, delivery rooms, and
other primary health care facilities including equipment to facilitate referrals.
                                               (e) Concepción

The Project had a strong impact in improving the delivery of basic obstetric and neonatal health services in
the one hospital and five health centers serving this department. The observed improvements were 25.4
percent and 27.4 percent, respectively. However, because performance at the 41 health posts in this
department remains low (41.9 percent) and actually deteriorated between 2001 and 2004, the overall
performance score shows only small improvement (5.3 percent). For this reason, the analysis of the
efficiency conditions prevalent in the regional network in 2004 is shown below by type of facility


 Table 9: Concepción Department: Efficiency Conditions for the performance of essential
              Obstetric and Neonatal functions in 2004

                                             (a) Hospitals
                                                       Efficiency Conditions
    Essential Functions          Total        Staff     Physical       Equip.     Drugs &  Available
                                             Ability      Plant                   Supplies    Staff
 Surgery                         78.0         82.1        81.6          88.9       53.3        68.2
 Anesthesia                      68.8         87.5        81.6          55.0       18.8        66.7
 Control of high OB risk         84.1        100.0         0.0          60.0       66.7       100.0
 Family planning                 80.0         57.1       100.0         100.0       100.0      100.0
 Clinical vigilance of labor     86.0         95.7        81.6          88.9       83.3        68.2
 Blood transfusion               54.5         57.1       100.0          66.7       25.0        25.0
 Pre- and post-natal care        91.7         88.9       100.0         100.0       100.0       83.3
 Care for the newborn            64.1         75.0        88.9          64.6       36.4        13.3
 Referrals                       66.7         50.0         NA          100.0       66.7        50.0
 Total                           75.0         83.3        79.1          79.8       48.2        60.4




                                                    - 57 -

                                         (b) Health Centers
 Surgery                         60.4        75.2         57.9        71.6       26.9         20.0
 Anesthesia                      41.7        40.7         57.9        13.9        5.6         22.2
 Control of high OB risk         51.7        73.9         9.1         21.2       21.8         34.1
 Family planning                 70.8        95.8         50.0        88.9       54.2         20.9
 Clinical vigilance of labor     63.4        82.8         57.9        71.6       28.3         20.0
 Blood transfusion                9.2        10.0         8.3         12.5        6.3          1.4
 Pre- and post-natal care        69.9        84.4         66.7        83.3        NA          27.8
 Care for the newborn            54.4        69.6         36.4        24.7       11.4         51.5
 Referrals                       50.5        42.9         NA          64.3       42.9         50.0
 Total                           54.9        68.5         53.9        60.2       23.0         28.6
                                           (c) Health Posts
 Surgery                         42.2        60.5         40.6        6.8        17.5         50.6
 Anesthesia                      24.4        NA           NA          NA         24.4         NA
 Control of high OB risk         31.0        62.6         16.3        12.2        0.0         49.6
 Family planning                 65.4        85.4         NA          46.3       59.8         30.5
 Clinical vigilance of labor     40.2        47.3         40.6        46.8       16.6         50.6
 Blood transfusion               10.4        19.5         NA          NA          7.3         NA
 Pre- and post-natal care        60.7        76.0         69.5        57.1       31.7          4.9
 Care for the newborn            40.6        47.2         40.6        19.5       11.4         NA
 Referrals                       31.2        34.2         NA          25.6       46.3         27.6
 Total                           41.9        54.1         39.5        39.3       20.6         41.3
 Source: op.cit. (May 2004).



In order to ensure the consolidation of the progress made in Concepción, it is important that the MSPBS
make additional efforts to improve the availability of pharmaceuticals and supplies, and increase the health
personnel allocated to the department, particularly in health centers and posts. The Project results in this
department are a good example of what can be achieved and should encourage further efforts countrywide.

The Project made extensive investments in the Concepción Department, as follows:

(a) Regional Hospital at Concepción: This existing hospital was substantially expanded with a new 5,500
m2 building for 87 beds and new blocks for the care of emergencies, x-ray and laboratory, blood bank,
surgery, maternity and neonatal care, pediatric and adult internment, general services (including laundry,
sterilization room, maintenance workshop, and morgue), as well as a block for kitchen, storage, cafeteria,
and staff sanitary services. The building is air conditioned and supplied with medical gases and ancillary
services including a water tank, generator, and telephone switchboard and radio communications rooms. In
addition, the old hospital building--which consists of 3,400 m2 containing 24-bed internment facilities for
adults, consulting rooms, administrative services offices, dormitory for on-duty physicians, and sanitary
services--was fully refurbished. The entire hospital was provided with medical, laboratory and industrial
equipment that fully meets the needs of maternity-delivery rooms, neonatal care and infirmary services.

(b) Four health centers, located at Tbt-yaú, Horqueta, Valle, and Pinasco were expanded by an additional
43 beds, consulting and delivery rooms, neonatal and emergency care facilities, X-ray, laboratories,
ondontogy facilities and administrative service areas.

(b) Four health posts in the department--including one in which the building was close to collapsing--were



                                                    - 58 -

       improved with added bed capacity, infirmary, normal delivery rooms and consultation rooms. These posts
       are located in Oegyahi Kinam /arritutim /cryce /bekka /vusta abd /cakera Utacúa.

                                                      (f) San Pedro

       With an estimated population of 352,018 inhabitants, San Pedro is the second most populous department in
       the Project area, accounting for 23.5 percent of the total, and its public health network is the largest,
       comprising 2 hospitals, 8 health centers and 72 health posts or a total of 82 facilities. The most salient
       impact of the Project in this department was a 23.7 percent improvement in the performance of health
       centers. However, the overall score for the network remains very low (48.9 percent) and practically did not
       change since 2001. As in the case of Concepción, the large number of health posts calls for analysis of
       regional conditions by type of facility. These data show that the largest deficits in hospitals relate to
       shortages of drugs, supplies and medical staff, although total hospital performance is relatively high at 67.4
       percent. Health centers have generalized deficiencies except with respect to staff ability. In particular, the
       very low performance associated with blood transfusions deserves immediate attention. With respect to
       health posts, the overriding conclusion that can be drawn from these data is that a large number of posts
       should be closed or re-classified as dispensaries dedicated to pre- and post natal care and family planning,
       since the performance with respect to all other functions is below minimum standards. Given the current
       size of the network, it is unlikely that total performance scores can be raised in the near future without
       re-configuration.

Table 10: San Pedro Department: Efficiency Conditions for the performance of essential
             Obstetric and Neonatal functions in 2004
                                           (a) Hospitals
                                                      Efficiency Conditions
   Essential Functions         Total       Staff      Physical      Equip.      Drugs &    Available
                                          Ability       Plant                   Supplies      Staff
Surgery                        78.8         98.2        72.4         83.3         75.0        34.1
Anesthesia                     68.8         93.8        72.4         87.5          0.0        33.3
Control of high OB risk        76.7         90.0        37.5         45.0         50.0        75.0
Family planning                80.0         71.4        100.0       100.0         75.0        75.0
Clinical vigilance of labor    50.8         88.0        72.4          0.8         95.8        34.1
Blood transfusion              62.6         71.4        86.7         66.7         45.8        41.7
Pre- and post-natal care       82.2         84.4        100.0        95.0        100.0        46.7
Care for the newborn           60.9         70.5        58.3         70.3         34.1         7.0
Referrals                      70.0         50.0         NA          87.5         66.7        75.0
Total                          67.4         83.5        71.6         58.4         53.4        39.8




                                                           - 59 -

                                             (b) Health Centers
     Surgery                        56.0        72.2        52.9        60.7        33.3         21.0
     Anesthesia                     41.4        46.9        52.9         63         15.6         21.9
     Control of high OB risk        43.1        67.8        5.0         13.3         5.0         23.8
     Family planning                64.0        93.4        47.4        45.6        79.0         26.3
     Clinical vigilance of labor    56.7        74.7        52.9        60.7        31.1         21.0
     Blood transfusion               1.5         0.0        0.0          0.0         5.8          0.0
     Pre- and post-natal care       66.4        78.3        47.4        89.5         NA          33.3
     Care for the newborn           55.3        67.8        53.3        25.7        22.5         50.0
     Referrals                      30.2        17.3        NA          50.0        23.1         27.0
     Total                          50.1        64.3        49.6        49.5        24.8         26.1
                                              (c) Health Posts
                                                         Efficiency Conditions
        Essential Functions        Total        Staff     Physical     Equip.     Drugs &     Available
                                               Ability     Plant                  Supplies       Staff
     Surgery                        46.7        66.9        37.1        45.4        28.2         58.4
     Anesthesia                     40.3         NA         NA          NA          40.3          NA
     Control of high OB risk        32.9        62.0        18.5        15.6         1.4         51.8
     Family planning                62.2        91.1        NA          68.1        18.1         31.3
     Clinical vigilance of labor    42.4        51.1        37.1        45.4        20.8         58.4
     Blood transfusion              16.7        26.4        NA          NA          13.4          NA
     Pre- and post-natal care       66.4        82.5        68.8        61.7        62.5          2.8
     Care for the newborn           40.5        46.2        37.1        23.6        17.6          NA
     Referrals                      33.0        32.4        NA          22.2        36.1         47.7
     Total                          44.4        55.7        37.6        40.9        24.9         48.9
     Source: op.cit. (May 2004).



Project investments in San Pedro Department health infrastructure benefited the Regional Hospital of San
Pedro and several health centers and posts. Specifically:

(a) The San Pedro Regional Hospital was expanded by a new block (488 m2) and the refurbishing of 1,917
m2 of existing areas. New facilities built and equipped include a maternal and neonatal surgery rooms,
new beds for children and adults, emergency care area, delivery and pre-delivery rooms, kitchen, cafeteria,
laundry, morgue, general services area and parking for ambulances.

(b) The District Hospital at San Estanislao was expanded by 3,900 m2 to accommodate 66 new beds, two
delivery rooms, emergency facilities, X-ray, a service block including laundry, kitchen, morgue, and
pharmacy, and a regional vaccine warehouse.

(c) Seven health centers were improved, including those at Itacurubí del Rosario, General Aquino, Santa
Rosa del Aguary, Choré, Capiibary, Nueva Germania and General Resquín. Improvements consisted of
additional bed capacity (10 to 15 beds were added to each center), consulting rooms, laboratories, delivery
rooms, pre-delivery care and neonatal rooms, emergency and surgery blocks, administrative and general
services areas, odontology service areas, and X-rays.

(d) Three health posts were expanded, restructured and received preventive maintenance. These posts,



                                                   - 60 -

located at Tacuatí, Aguerito, and Tava Guaraní, were provided with 3-bed additional capacity, waiting
room, infirmary, consulting rooms, delivery room, and other primary health care service facilities.




                                                  - 61 -

     Additional Annex 9: Borrower's Contribution

                                                              Asunción, 9 de junio de 2005


SEÑOR PETER HANSEN, REPRESENTANTE RESIDENTE

BANCO MUNDIAL

ASUNCIÓN

Distinguido señor:

Con nuestros atentos saludos, hacemos referencia a su nota de fecha 25 de mayo del año
en curso, por medio de a cual nos ha hecho llegar el Informe Final de Ejecución (IFE) del
Proyecto de Salud Materna y Desarrollo Integral del Niño/a (PSM).

Al respecto, cumplimos en remitirle adjunto nuestro comentario acerca del referido
documento.

Hallamos propicia la oportunidad para exteriorizar nuestro sincero reconocimiento al Señor
Representante y colaboradores por a excelente predisposición e interés puestos de
manifiesto en favor del pueblo paraguayo; y reiterarle al mismo tiempo la seguridad de
nuestra más elevada consideración y estima,


                                                    DRA. MARIA TERESA LEON MENDARO
                                                                MINISTRA




                                                 - 62 -

                                             COMENTARIOS

 En líneas generales del Informe Anual de Ejecución del Proyecto de Salud Materna y
 Desarrollo Integral del Niño (CPL-40860) (SCL 40070) por un monto de 21.8 millones a la
 República del Paraguay por el Banco Mundial. se puede evidenciar cuanto sigue:

· Debilidades en el diseño. Se resalta en el informe que no hubo una conexión clara entre todos los
  objetivos del Proyecto, algunas intervenciones, algunos resultados esperados y los indicadores.

· Debilidades y retrasos en la Gestión y Ejecución al inicio del Programa

· La no institucionalización y consecuente involucramiento de las instancias de condiicci6n superior
  tecnopolíticas y, la debida apropiación de las instancias ejecutoras del Ministerio de Salud Pública
  y Bienestar Social.

· No se estableció pautas claras sobre las actividades para establecer un sistema de monitoreo y al
  mismo tiempo se veía irracional contar con un número tan grande de indicadores (más de ochenta)
  de monitoreo e impacto.

· Rediseño del Proyecto. Si bien las actividades del Proyecto fueron reestructuradas en el 2001, los
  objetivos originales no fueron normalmente revisados.

  La Reestructuración no alteró los componentes originales, salvo el componente B de desarrollo
  infantil temprano que se acordó cancelar y el redireccionamiento del componente C, Apoyo a la
  Descentralización.

· La evaluación de las actividades del Proyecto se realizó mediante un estudio de ocho funciones
  obstétricas y una neonatal (8FOE&1N), recomendándose el uso de los resultados de la Encuesta
  Nacional de Salud Reproductiva y Sexual como herramientas más apropiadas para monitorear y
  evaluar el Proyecto en lugar de las estadísticas institucionales. entendiéndose por éstas como no
  confiables.


  Con esto se buscó alinear los objetivos y actividades del Proyecto con las políticas nacionales-
  reducir la complejidad institucional y tener a mediano plazo un impacto directo sobre la mortalidad
  materno infantil.

 En síntesis:
 La evaluación del informe final califica al Proyecto de Salud Materna y Desarrollo Integral del Niño,
 como sigue:

 ·    Calidad al inicio: Insatisfactorio
 ·    Resultado/logro del objetivo: Insatisfactorio
 ·    Impacto en el desarrollo institucional: Modesto
 ·    Sustentabilidad: Improbable
 ·    Desempeño del Banco y el Prestatario: Insatisfactorio


 Resaltando como moderadamente Satisfactorios, la Supervisón y la Gestión ejecutora de la
 PCU en la Case posterior a la reestructuración del Proyecto. haciendo notar que las
 autoridades del Ministerio y la PCU aseguraron procedimientos de gestión transparentes.




                                                      - 63 -

Lecciones Aprendidas

Es necesario que los datos iniciales y un conjunto realista de indicadores de monitoreo y
evaluación y metas sean definidos durante la evaluación inicial.

La institucionalización y apropiación de los Programas o Proyectos con financiación externa
por los diferentes estamentos y niveles decisorios y operativos de Ia institución y continuidad
de ejecución es clave para asegurar un adecuado nivel tanto como para la sostenibilidad de
los mismos.

Es necesario que las estrategias de capacitaci6n y recapacitación sean parte de un sistema
de desarrollo del personal que toma en cuenta no solo las habilidades necesarias por nivel
sino también las metodologias adecuadas para transmitir estas habilidades a diferentes tipos
y niveles de personal, incluyendo el entrenamiento en el lugar de trabajo.

Es necesario que los arreglos de la ejecución sean diseñados cuidadosamente, tomando en
cuenta la capacidad institucional del cliente, y monitoreados durante la ejecución del
Proyecto.




                                                  - 64 -

- 65 -

