Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4086-PA
                             CP-Loan Agreement
             (Maternal Health and Child Development Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated September 29, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4086-PA
                             CP-LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is providing a
single currency loan in a principal amount equal to ten million nine
hundred thousand Dollars (the Loan) to assist in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement; and
     (B)  the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of such Project has requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance in the financing of said Project through the provision of a
currency pool loan (the CP-Loan);
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the CP-Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this CP-Loan Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
Page  2
modifications set forth below, constitute an integral part of this
CP-Loan Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expendi-
          tures in the territories of any country which is not a
          member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose
          of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import
          of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of
          the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations.";
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subpara-
graph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.";
     (d)  the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means this CP-Loan Agreement;
     (e)  the term "Loan" and "loans", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the CP-Loan; and
     (f)  the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the CP-Loan Account.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in paragraphs (a) through
(s) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional term has the following
meaning, namely "CP-Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this CP-Loan Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The CP-Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the CP-Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the
amount of ten million nine hundred thousand Dollars ($10,900,000) being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the CP-Loan, with each with-
drawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
CP-Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
CP- Loan Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the CP-Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BCP on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the CP-Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the CP-Loan Account and pay to itself
50% of the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
Page  3
be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the CP-Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the CP-Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this CP-Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
               the date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and
               (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
               1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
               as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
          of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
          rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
          plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
          Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
          outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
          at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
          year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
CP-Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  4
                                ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project and Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07,
3.08, 3.09, 3.10, and 4.01 of, and Schedules 2 and 4 to, the Loan
Agreement constitute an integral part of this CP-Loan Agreement, with
the following modifications, unless the context otherwise requires:
     (a)  the term "Loan" shall be read as "CP-Loan";
     (b)  the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the CP Loan
Agreement";
     (c)  the term "Special Account" shall be read as "CP-Special
Account"; and
     (d)  the term "Loan Account" shall be read as "CP-Loan Account".
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Remedies of the Bank
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the
event referred to in Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement shall occur.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the
event referred to in Section 4.01 of this CP-Loan Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this CP-Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to this CP-Loan
Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The date December 30, 1996 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.03. If the Loan Agreement terminates prior to the
termination of this CP-Loan Agreement, the provisions of the Loan
Agreement incorporated by reference in this CP-Loan Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect for purposes of this CP-Loan
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Chile 128
          Asuncin, Paraguay
          Cable address:             Telex:
          MINISTERIO DE              44329 HACIENDA
Page  5
          Asuncin, Paraguay
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
               By /s/ Carlos Facetti
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                 AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the CP-Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the CP-Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
CP-Loan to such Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in such Category:
                              Amount of the
                            CP-Loan Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Works
     (a)  under Part A.1        2,280,000         86%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part B.3           90,000         86%
          of the Project
(2)  Goods
     (a)  pharmaceuticals       1,790,000         80% until
          and medical                             withdrawals under
          supplies under                          Category 2 (a)
          Part A.2 of the                         have reached the
          Project                                 aggregate amount
                                                  of $735,000; 60%
Page  6
                                                  until withdrawals
                                                  under Category 2 (a)
                                                  have reached the
                                                  aggregate amount
                                                  of $1,505,000; and
                                                  20% thereafter
     (b)  medical, industrial   1,735,000         91%
          and communications
          equipment and
          vehicles under
          Part A.1 of the
          Project
     (c)  furniture and            85,000         91%
          other equipment
          under Part B.3
          of the Project
     (d)  under other Parts       760,000         91%
          of the Project
(3)  Consultants' services
     (a)  under Parts A.3 and     355,000         100%
          A.4 of the Project
     (b)  under Part D.1 of     1,150,000         100%
          the Project
     (c)  under other Parts       610,000         100%
          of the Project
(4)  Training
     (a)  under Part A.1           35,000         100%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part A.4          320,000         100%
          of the Project
     (c)  under other Parts       165,000         100%
          of the Project
(5)  Maintenance                  485,000         80% until
                                                  withdrawals under
                                                  this Category
                                                  have reached the
                                                  aggregate amount
                                                  of $105,000; 60%
                                                  until withdrawals
                                                  under this Category
                                                  have reached the
                                                  aggregate amount
                                                  of $350,000; and
                                                  20% thereafter
(6)  Operating                     70,000         50%
     Expenditures
(7)  Refunding of                 225,000         50% of amounts due
     Project                                      pursuant to
     Preparation                                  Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                      of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                  745,000
                               __________
     TOTAL                     10,900,000
                               ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  7
     (a)  the term "Consultants' services"  means expenditures incurred
by the Borrower, through MSPBS, in connection with the employment of
consulting firms and individual consultants for the coordination and
implementation of the Project and the provision of training and
technical assistance under the Project;
     (b)  the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for
consultants' services and training materials) incurred in connection
with the training activities to be carried out under the Project,
including travel costs and per-diem of the trainees;
     (c)  the term "Maintenance" means expenditures incurred in
connection with the provision of maintenance of existing infra-
structure, equipment and vehicles or to be rehabilitated and/or
acquired during Project implementation; and
     (d)  the term "Operating Expenditures" means expenditures
incurred by the PCU in connection with the carrying out of its
functions, including the acquisition and utilization of office
supplies, and travel cost and per-diem of the PCU's personnel.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
CP-Loan Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures under each Eligible Sub-
project (under Categories (1) (a), (2) (b), (4) (a) and (5) of the
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule) unless the corresponding
Eligible Health Region (in which such Subproject will be carried
out) has: (i) prepared and furnished to the Bank, the corresponding
Master Investment Plan; (ii) designated a chief of maintenance
acceptable to the Bank, to carry out the maintenance activities set
forth in the Master Investment Plan; and (iii) established an RCO
as provided in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b)
and (2) (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule with
respect to each CEBINFA unless: (i) the corresponding CEBINFA has
been established as provided in Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii)
the corresponding Cost-Sharing Agreement has been duly signed as
provided by Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the CP-Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under: (a) contracts for goods (other than medical, industrial,
communications and computer equipment to be awarded under Part C.1
of Section I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement) costing less than
$250,000 equivalent with the exception of the first contract for
goods under the first Eligible Subproject to be carried out each
year of Project implementation in each Eligible Health Region and
to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement; (b) contracts for pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies costing less than $25,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for
works costing less than $150,000 equivalent with the exception of
the first contract for works under the first Eligible Subproject
to be carried out each year of Project implementation in each
Eligible Health Region and to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of
Section I of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement; (d) contracts for
the employment of consulting firms costing less than $40,000
equivalent; (e) contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants costing less than $20,000 equivalent; and (f) Training,
Maintenance and Operating Expenditures as set forth in Categories
(4), (5) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                         Amortization Schedule
Page  8
                                       Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                      (Expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
     beginning May 1, 2002
     through May 1, 2013                      455,000
And on November 1, 2013                       435,000
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents as of the
     respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the CP-Loan to be
prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of
prepayment below:
     Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed
                                  as a percentage per annum)
                                  applicable to the CP-Loan on
                                  the day of prepayment
                                  multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                    0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                   0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                    1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 3
Page  9
                            CP-Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the CP-Loan allocated
from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the CP-Loan Account and deposited in
the CP-Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the CP-Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the CP-Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
CP-Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the CP-Special
Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the CP-Loan Account
and deposit in the CP-Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the CP-Special Account, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
               deposits into the CP-Special Account at such
               intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
               4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested.
               On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
               on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the CP-
               Loan Account and deposit into the CP-Special
               Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the CP-Special Account  for Eligible
               Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the CP-Loan
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the CP-Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
Page  10
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
CP-Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the CP-Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
CP-Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the
Loan Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the CP-Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the CP-Loan Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the CP-Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the CP-Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the CP-Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the CP-Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the CP-Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the CP-Special Account  (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Bank into the CP-Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the CP-Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the CP-Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the CP-Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
