Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4087-PA
                              Loan Agreement
              (Maternal Health and Child Development Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated September 29, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4087-PA
                           LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank);
     WHEREAS (A) By an agreement of even date herewith (the CP Loan
Agreement) the Bank is providing a loan in various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of ten million
nine hundred thousand Dollars ($10,900,000); and
     (B) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
Page  2
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "BCP" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central del
Paraguay);
     (b)  "CEBINFA" means a Family and Child Welfare Center (Centro de
Bienestar de la Infancia y la Familia) to be established in the city
of Asuncion under Part B.1 of the Project;
     (c)  "CHW" means a community health worker who provides, inter
alia, health education;
     (d)  "Cost-Sharing Agreement" means any of the agreements
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "Decree No. 4.267" means Executive Decree No. 4.267 (Decreto
del Poder Ejecutivo) of the Borrower dated June 17, 1994 which
established the geographical boundaries and population coverage of the
health regions in the Borrower's territory;
     (f)  "Eligible Health Facility" means a Regional Hospital, a
Health Center and/or a Health Post located within an Eligible Health
Region which has been identified in the Master Investment Plan;
     (g)  "Eligible Health Region" means a subdivision of MSPBS whose
jurisdiction is within the same geographical area of each of the
Borrower's Departments of Alto Paraguay, Alto Parana, Amambay,
Canindeyu, Concepcion and San Pedro, in which MSPBS provides, inter
alia, health care services to the population living within such area;
     (h)  "Eligible Subproject" means a specific project, which
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual,
consisting of: (i) the rehabilitation of the infrastructure of, the
acquisition and utilization of medical, industrial and communications
equipment and the provision of vehicles for, a Regional Hospital or a
Health Center, including the maintenance of such health facilities,
equipment and vehicles and the provision of training to the staff
responsible for such maintenance; or (ii) the acquisition and
utilization of medical, industrial and communications equipment and
the provision of vehicles for a Health Post (including the maintenance
of such equipment and vehicles and the provision of training to the
staff responsible for such maintenance); or (iii) the rehabilitation
of storage areas for pharmaceuticals, all located within an Eligible
Health Region;
     (i)  "Guaranies" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (j)  "Health Center" means a medical center owned by MSPBS which
provides primary and secondary health services;
     (k)  "Health Post" means a medical post owned by MSPBS which
provides primary health services;
     (l)  "Implementation Letter" means the letter from the Borrower
to the Bank of even date herewith setting forth the Project monitoring
and performance indicators, as such indicators may me amended with the
agreement of the Bank;
     (m)  "Master Investment Plan" means an Eligible Health Region
investment plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which contains, inter
alia: (i) a description of the investments in infrastructure and
equipment to be made by such Region during the implementation of
the Project and the corresponding estimated cost for each such
investment; (ii) a description of the maintenance activities to be
carried out during the timeframe for such investments; (iii) a
human resource census of each Eligible Health Facility; and (iv)
the identification of Eligible Health Facilities to be benefited
by Eligible Subprojects, as such Master Investment Plan may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
Page  3
     (n)  "MSPBS" means the Ministry of Public Health and Social
Welfare (Ministerio de Salud Publica y Bienestar Social) of the
Borrower;
     (o)  "Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, satis-
factory to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria
for selection of Eligible Subprojects; (ii) the guidelines and
procedures to be followed in the acquisition and distribution of
pharmaceuticals and medical supplies; (iii) the guidelines and
procedures to be followed in the procurement of medical and
industrial equipment and civil works; (iv) the criteria, guidelines
and procedures to be followed in the establishment of CEBINFAS; (v)
the procedures to be followed by MSPBS in the operation of CEBINFAS;
(vi) the guidelines to be followed by MSPBS in the delivery of health
services in Health Centers and Health Posts; (vii) the terms and
conditions of a model Cost-Sharing Agreement; (viii) the list of
pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and medical and industrial equip-
ment which can only be financed with the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (2) (a) and (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, respectively; and (ix) the procedures to be
followed by the Borrower, through MSPBS, in the administration of
the Project, as such Operational Manual may be amended from time
to time with the agreement of the Bank;
     (p)  "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established
pursuant to Ministerial Resolution No. 49 of the Borrower dated
February 9, 1996;
     (q)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of
Agreement dated October 26, 1994 and duly approved by the Borrower's
Congress pursuant to Law No. 595 dated June 15, 1995;
     (r)  "RCO" means each Regional Coordination Office referred to
in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
     (s)  "Regional Hospital" means a hospital owned by MSPBS which
provides the highest level of health services in the respective
health region; and
     (t)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to ten million  nine hundred thousand Dollars
($10,900,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BCP on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 50%
of the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be canceled.
Page  4
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MSPBS with the
assistance of the Eligible Health Regions  with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative,
financial and environmental practices, and in accordance with the
Operational Manual and the monitoring and performance indicators set
forth in the Implementation Letter, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and in order to operate, and rehabilitate, if needed,
a CEBINFA, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall enter into an agree-
ment (the Cost-Sharing Agreement) with the community (to be benefited
by the corresponding CEBINFA) under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank including, inter alia, the obligation of such community
to make a contribution to MSPBS: (i) in cash; (ii) in kind; (iii)
through the provision of labor; or (iv) by means of any combination
thereof.
     (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and for purposes of carrying out the program referred to in Part A.3
of the Project, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall: (i) not later
than March 31, 1997 prepare and present to the Bank an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, including a timetable to implement the
activities under such program; and (ii) immediately thereafter
commence the implementation of such program in accordance with the
referred action plan.
     (d)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above
and for purposes of carrying out the training program referred to in
Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall: (i) not
later than March 31, 1997  prepare and present to the Bank an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, including a timetable to implement
the activities under such training program; and (ii) immediately
thereafter commence the implementation of such training program in
accordance with the referred action plan.
     (e)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall: (i) not later than six months
after the Effective Date conclude the first phase (as such phase is
described in the Operational Manual) of the study mentioned in Part D
of the Project; and (ii) not later than twelve months prior to the
expected completion date set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
commence the carrying out of the second phase (as such phase is
described in the Operational Manual) of the study mentioned in Part D
Page  5
of the Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through
MSPBS, shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower, through MSPBS, on said plan.
     Section 3.04.  (a)  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall operate
and maintain during Project implementation the PCU with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the
responsibility to assist MSPBS in the coordination and implementation
of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall ensure that the PCU is at
all times headed by a Project director assisted by an administrative/
financial coordinator, a technical coordinator and an investment
coordinator and staff in adequate numbers (as the positions for such
staff are described in the Operational Manual), all with qualifica-
tions acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.05.  (a)  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall establish
and thereafter operate and maintain during Project implementation a
regional coordination office (the RCO) within each Eligible Health
Region with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
including, inter alia, the responsibility to assist the PCU in carry-
ing out its functions.
     (b)  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall ensure that each RCO is
at all times headed by a regional coordinator assisted by staff in
adequate numbers (as the positions for such staff are described in
the Operational Manual), all with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank.
     Section 3.06.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall
review jointly with the Bank not later than eighteen months after
the Effective Date the effectiveness of the applicability of the
guidelines and procedures followed in the acquisition and distribu-
tion of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies as provided in Part A.2
(a) of the Project. As part of such review, the Bank may require the
Borrower, through MSPBS, to modify such guidelines and procedures
under terms satisfactory to the Bank. If so, the Borrower, through
MSPBS, shall not later than sixty days after the conclusion of such
review furnish to the Bank the modified guidelines and procedures.
     Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall
on the earlier of the dates on which the twentieth CEBINFA (to be
established under Part B.1 of the Project) has been in operation for
at least six months or the date thirty months after the Effective Date,
undertake a joint review with the Bank concerning the operational
structure of the CEBINFAS and if such CEBINFAS are achieving their
objectives as set forth in the Operational Manual. As part of such
review, the Bank may require the Borrower, through MSPBS, to prepare
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in the
operational structure of the CEBINFAS. If so, the Borrower, through
MSPBS, shall prepare and furnish such action plan to the Bank not
later than sixty days after the conclusion of such review and shall
thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan
Page  6
in accordance with its terms.
     Section 3.08.  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall: (a) not later
than June 30 of each year during Project implementation, starting in
1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,
a draft implementation plan which shall contain, inter alia, the
activities to be carried out by the Borrower, through MSPBS, during
the calendar year following the date of presentation of such plan and
the estimated cost of each such activity, including the source of
financing for each such activity; (b) not later than January 31 of
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1997 (as
provided in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement), furnish to the Bank
the implementation plan which shall incorporate the Bank's comments,
if any; and (c) carry out such plan in accordance with its terms.
     Section 3.09.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall
not later than February 28 of each year during Project implementation,
starting in 1998, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual report of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request with
respect to the progress made by the Borrower, through MSPBS, in the
carrying out of the Project (during the calendar year preceding the
date of presentation of such report) in accordance with the corres-
ponding plan referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.10.  (a)  Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MSPBS,
shall review jointly with the Bank not later than March 31 of each
year during Project implementation, starting in 1998, the progress
made by the Borrower, through MSPBS, in carrying out of the Project.
Each such review shall also focus in discussing the annual imple-
mentation plan and the progress report for the year in question
referred to in Sections 3.08 and 3.09 of this Agreement, respectively.
As part of each such review, the Bank may require that the Borrower,
through MSPBS, prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
make adjustments in Project implementation.  If so, the Borrower,
through MSPBS, shall prepare and furnish such action plan to the Bank
not later than sixty days after the conclusion of each such review
and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such
action plan in accordance with its terms.
     (b)  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall participate in a Project
implementation mid-term review to be held with the Bank as part of the
annual review to be held not later than March 31, 2000. Such mid-term
review, shall also focus in reviewing: (i) the progress made by the
Borrower, through MSPBS, in achieving the objectives of the Project;
and (ii) the disbursement and procurement procedures to be followed
under the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall maintain
or cause to be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower, through MSPBS, shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
Page  7
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or
               payment out of the Special Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
Decree No. 4.267 or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a
manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the carrying
out of the Project.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the  following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (a)  of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the  effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that Borrower, through MSPBS, shall have approved the
Operational Manual;
     (b)  that the PCU has employed the Project director and the
coordinators, as provided in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
     (c)  that the Borrower, through MSPBS, shall have hired at least
two regional coordinators as provided in Section 3.05 of this Agree-
ment;
     (d)  that the Borrower, through MSPBS, has furnished to the Bank
the implementation plan for 1997 referred to in Section 3.08 of this
Agreement; and
     (e)  that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Page  8
CP-Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related
to this Agreement.
     Section 6.02.  The date December 30, 1996 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Chile No. 128
          Asuncion, Paraguay
          Cable address:           Telex:
               MINISTERIO DE       44329
               HACIENDA
               Asunci"n, Paraguay
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                    By  /s/ Carlos Facetti
                                             Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                               Regional Vice President
                                       Latin America and the Caribbean
                               SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
                Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the              % of
                          Loan Allocated          Expenditures
                          (Expressed in               to be
     Category                Dollars)               Financed
(1)  Works
     (a)  under Part A.1     2,280,000            86%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part B.3        90,000            86%
          of the Project
(2)  Goods
     (a)  pharmaceuticals    1,790,000            80% until
          and medical                             withdrawals under
          supplies under                          Category 2 (a)
          Part A.2 of the                         have reached the
          Project                                 aggregate amount
                                                  of $735,000; 60%
                                                  until withdrawals
                                                  under Category 2 (a)
                                                  have reached the
                                                  aggregate amount
                                                  of $1,505,000; and
                                                  20% thereafter
     (b)  medical, industrial 1,735,000           91%
          and communications
          equipment and
          vehicles under
          Part A.1 of the
          Project
     (c)  furniture and          85,000           91%
          other equipment
          under Part B.3
          of the Project
     (d)  under other Parts     760,000           91%
          of the Project
(3)  Consultants' services
     (a)  under Parts A.3 and   355,000           100%
          A.4 of the Project
     (b)  under Part D.1 of   1,150,000           100%
          the Project
     (c)  under other Parts     610,000           100%
          of the Project
(4)  Training
     (a)  under Part A.1         35,000           100%
          of the Project
     (b)  under Part A.4        320,000           100%
          of the Project
     (c)  under other Parts     165,000           100%
          of the Project
Page  10
(5)  Maintenance                485,000           80% until
                                                  withdrawals under
                                                  this Category
                                                  have reached the
                                                  aggregate amount
                                                  of $105,000; 60%
                                                  until withdrawals
                                                  under this Category
                                                  have reached the
                                                  aggregate amount
                                                  of $350,000; and
                                                  20% thereafter
(6)  Operating                   70,000           50%
     Expenditures
(7)  Refunding of               225,000           50% of amounts due
     Project                                      pursuant to
     Preparation                                  Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                      of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                745,000
                             __________
     TOTAL                   10,900,000
                             ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Consultants' services" means expenditures incurred
by the Borrower, through MSPBS, in connection with the employment of
consulting firms and individual consultants for the coordination and
implementation of the Project and the provision of training and tech-
nical assistance under the Project;
     (b)  the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for
consultants' services and training materials) incurred in connection
with the training activities to be carried out under the Project,
including travel costs and per-diem of the trainees;
     (c)  the term "Maintenance" means expenditures incurred in
connection with the provision of maintenance of existing infrastructure,
equipment and vehicles or to be rehabilitated and/or acquired during
Project implementation; and
     (d)  the term "Operating Expenditures" means expenditures incurred
by the PCU in connection with the carrying out of its functions,
including the acquisition and utilization of office supplies, and travel
cost and per-diem of the PCU's personnel.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures under each Eligible Subproject
(under Categories (1) (a), (2) (b), (4) (a) and (5) of the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule) unless the corresponding Eligible Health
Region (in which such subproject will be carried out) has: (i) prepared
and furnished to the Bank, the corresponding Master Investment Plan;
(ii) designated a chief of maintenance acceptable to the Bank, to carry
out the maintenance activities set forth in the Master Investment Plan;
and (iii) established an RCO as provided in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; and
     (c)  payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and
(2) (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule with respect to
each CEBINFA unless: (i) the corresponding CEBINFA has been established
as provided in Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii) the corresponding Cost-
Sharing Agreement has been duly signed as provided by Section 3.01 (b)
Page  11
of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a)
contracts for goods (other than medical, industrial, communications and
computer equipment to be awarded under Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule
4 to this Agreement) costing less than $250,000 equivalent with the
exception of the first contract for goods under the first Eligible
Subproject to be carried out each year of Project implementation in each
Eligible Health Region and to be awarded under Part C.2 (a) of Section I
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies costing less than $25,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for
works costing less than $150,000 equivalent with the exception of the
first contract for works under the first Eligible Subproject to be
carried out each year of Project implementation in each Eligible Health
Region and to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of Section I of Schedule 4
to this Agreement; (d) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
costing less than $40,000 equivalent; (e) contracts for the employment
of individual consultants costing less than $20,000 equivalent; and (f)
Training, Maintenance and Operating Expenditures as set forth in
Categories (4), (5) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,
respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to improve the health condition of
the poor population in Paraguay, specifically women and children, by:
(a) increasing the coverage and improving the quality and efficiency of
basic maternal and child health services in the Eligible Health Regions;
(b) increasing the population's knowledge concerning adequate health
practices; (c) carrying out a pilot-test of a strategy to improve early
child development in the city of Asunci"n; and (d) strengthening the
management capability of MSPBS in order to assist it in: (i) an eventual
decentralization of the provision of health services; and (ii) the
implementation of the Project.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Maternal and Child Health Care
1.   Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects.
2.   (a) Acquisition and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical
supplies for Eligible Health Facilities in accordance with the criteria,
guidelines and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual; and (b)
provision of training to the personnel of Eligible Health Regions in the
operation of MSPBS' computerized inventory system of pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies.
3.   Design and implementation of an information, education and
communication program which consists, inter alia, of: (a) educating the
Borrower's population in promoting MSPBS' preventive health care
services and good health practices; (b) informing the Borrower's
population concerning the availability of MSPBS' services; and (c)
fostering the participation of the Borrower's population in the pro-
vision and management of health services, including the provision of
technical assistance required therefor.
4.   Design and implementation of a training program in Eligible Health
Regions which consists, inter alia, of improving: (a) the technical
competence of MSPBS' medical and paramedical personnel; (b) the inter-
personal skills of MSPBS' personnel; (c) the technical skills of
traditional birth attendants; (d) the ability of CHWs to carry out
activities on health education and risk detection; (e) the operational
capacity of Regional Hospitals, Health Centers and Health Posts; and
(f) the skills of MSPBS' personnel to carry out the Project, including
the provision of technical assistance and the design and/or acquisition,
Page  12
utilization and distribution of training materials required therefor.
Part B:     Early Child Development
1.   Establishment of CEBINFAs in accordance with the criteria, guide-
lines and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, including
the provision of technical assistance required therefor.
2.   Strengthening of MSPBS' capacity to: (a) establish CEBINFAs; (b)
supervise the services provided by CEBINFAs; and (c) provide technical
assistance to non-governmental organizations and/or group of individuals
interested in establishing and operating CEBINFAs.
3.   Rehabilitation of the facilities of CEBINFAs (to be established as
provided in Part B.1 above) in accordance with the criteria set forth
in the Operational Manual, and the acquisition and utilization of
furniture, equipment and materials required by such CEBINFAs to carry
out their functions.
4.   (a)  Provision of training to caregivers in caregiving activities
and in the management of CEBINFAs; and (b) design and/or acquisition,
utilization and distribution of training materials required for the
provision of training mentioned in (a) herein.
Part C:     Institutional Strengthening for an Eventual Decentralization
            of Health Services
1.   Provision of technical assistance and training to MSPBS and the
Eligible Health Regions' personnel to improve their management capacity
in order to implement an eventual decentralization of health services.
2.   Design and implementation of management information systems in the
Eligible Health Regions.
3.   Carrying out of pilot activities to increase the sustainability of
health services, such as the design of cost recovery strategies for
Regional Hospitals, Health Centers and Health Posts and the development
of incentives to foster the participation of the community in the
management of health care.
4.   Design and implementation of a supervision program for maternal
and child health services.
Part D:     Project Management
     Carrying out of an impact evaluation study of the Project.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                               SCHEDULE 3
             Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period,
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next
following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  13
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first
day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which
such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed
Amounts. Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding
from time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to
its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date as
described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii) LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final
repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a
rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii) Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have
the following meanings.
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for
six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such Interest
Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value the
day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of
such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
               borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
               to fund single currency loans or portions thereof
               made by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such
               Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (c)  "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed interest
rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such Disbursed
Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
     (d)  "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii) minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
               Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above)
Page  14
               the London interbank offered rates, or other reference
               rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
               outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
               fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
               it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less
than six months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new
basis shall become effective on the expiration of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply
to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, the first such
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last
such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.
Each installment shall be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant
to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after November 15,2011, the Borrower 
shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount
of all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for
such Disbursed Amount.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Page  15
this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of Contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more
each.
     (b)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     (a)  Medical and industrial equipment which the Bank agrees can
only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of
the cost thereof, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Communications and computer equipment which the Bank agrees
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless
of the cost thereof, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Goods (other than medical, industrial, communications and
computer equipment, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) estimated
to cost $50,000 equivalent or more but less than $250,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Works estimated to cost $50,000 or more equivalent per
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (c)  All procurement of works and goods pursuant to this Part
C.2 shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable
to the Bank.
     (d)  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
and rules of procurement shall govern all procurement of goods and
works referred to in this Part C.2. The principle and rule of pro-
curement referred to in paragraph (vi) below also governs all procure-
ment of goods referred to in Part B of Section I of this Schedule:
          (i)  The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract
               award.
         (ii)  Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in
               national competitive bidding.
        (iii)  Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for
               bidding to be registered with local authorities,
               provided, however, that the information to be requested
               by the Borrower to such bidders is of such nature that
               it will not discourage their participation.
         (iv)  The price of contracts for works or goods which duration
               is for more than eighteen months may be adjusted even if
               such price has increased by less than 15% of the bid
               price.
          (v)  There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be
Page  16
               submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently
               awarded.
         (vi)  Foreign bidders shall not be required to notarize their
               bidding documents with Paraguayan authorities as a
               prerequisite of bidding. However, such foreign bidders
               shall be required to notarize their bid documentation
               by the corresponding authority of their domicile.
3.   International Shopping
     Goods (other than pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
4.   National Shopping
     (a)  Goods (other than medical, industrial, communications and
computer equipment, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) estimated
to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
     (b)  Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies estimated to cost less
than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made
to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete
the contract successfully.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under
Parts B and C.1 of this Section; (b) the first contract for goods and
works under the first Eligible Subproject to be carried out each year
of Project implementation in each Eligible Health Region and to be
awarded under Part C.2 (a) of this Section regardless of its cost; and
(c) each contract for works to be awarded under Part C.2 (b) of this
Section estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply.
Page  17
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guide-
lines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $20,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $40,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or
above.
3.   In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following
principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in this Section:
           (i)  Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
                participating in the selection process, be required
                to enter into a joint venture agreement with local
                consultants.
          (ii)  Foreign consultants shall be selected from those
                included in a short list on the basis of evaluation
                criteria and terms of reference, both satisfactory
                to the Bank.
         (iii)  Foreign consultants shall not be required to notarize
                their proposals or any documentation related to such
                proposals with Paraguayan authorities as a pre-
                requisite for participating in the selection
                procedure.
         (iv)  The prices of contracts over one year duration may be
               adjusted.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
Page  18
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $250,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed $2,5000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
Page  19
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
