Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13877-GHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
MARCH 21, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
West-Central Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 1994)
Currency Unit        =     Cedi
US$ 1.00             =     Cedi 1050
Cedi 1.00            =     US$ 0.00105
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =     3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)    =      0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)      =      2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)     =      2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)  =      2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



ABBVIATIONS AND ACROM
CSIR         Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DOF           Departnent of Fisheries (MOFA)
EEZ           Exclusive Economic Zone
ERP           Economic Recovery Program
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization (of the United Nations)
FC            Fisheries Commission
FFC           Fish Farm Center
GDP           Gross Domestic Prduct
LAB           Institute for Aquatic Biology (of CSIR)
IAPSO        Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization (UNDP)
ICCAT         International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
MCS           Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance
MLS           Minimum Landing Size
MOFA          Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MSY           Maximum Sustainable Yield
MTADS         Medium-Term Agricultural Development Strategy
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NGOs          Non-Governmental Organizations
NPV           Net Present Value
PPMED         Policy, Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Department (MOFA)
SMSs          Subject Matter Specialists
TAC          Total Allowable Catch
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNLOC         United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea






REPVBLIC OF GHANA
FSHER   SUB-SECTOR CAPACffY BUILDING PROECT 1/
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDrr AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ........................  I - ii
I. BACKGROUND .1
A. Economic Background .1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                                 2
C. The Fisheries Sub-Sector.                                                4
D. Governmnent's Development Strategy .10
E. IDA's Assistance Strategy .            1
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement .12
G. Lessons From Previous Operations .12
II. THE PROJECT .14
A. Introduction    ..                                                      14
B. Project Rationale and Design Criteria .14
C. Project Objectives and Components .1
D. Detailed Features                          ..15
E. Project Cost .18
F. Financing .20
0. Procurement   ..20
H. Disbursement   ..22
I. Environmental Impact .23
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .                                                       23
A. Organization .23
B. Implementation Schedule .24
C. Progress Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation .24
D. Project Supervision .25
E. Technical Assistance and Training .                                     25
F. Accounts and Audits .26
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS, AND SUSTAINABILITY .26
I/     The project was prepaed by the Department of Fisheries of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, with
aisance from FAO/CP. It was prs-appmised during July 17-August 17, 1994 by a team that included
Mears. T. Haile-Maiamn (Team Leader) and a. Alibauho (F4AOA); P. Mens h and C. Annor-Frempong
(RMGH); and Consultants J. Swan (Fisheries Legislation) and 1. Clark (Fisheries Management). It was
appraied during November 14-December 2, 1994 by Messrs. T. Haile-Mariam and 0. Alibaerho. Mrs. D.
Rawomb provided the socrtaial support. Mr. E. Loayza (AORTN) was the Lead Advisor and Mr. A.
Spurling (OEDDI) was the Peer keviewer. Mr. 0. Lafourmade and Ms. C. Cook are the Maaging
Dirctor and Division Chief, rupectively.



A. Benefits               .................................. 26
B. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis  .........                    ................ 27
C. Sustainability  ...................................   28
V.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... 28
ANNEXE-S
1.       Staffing of the Department of Fisheries ...................... 31
2.       Training Needs Analysis ..........                     ..................... 32
3.       Fisheries Management Plan and MCS   ...................... 37
4.       Schedule of Expenditures .............................. 45
5.       Project Counterpart Funding Requirements ................... 47
6.       Schedule of ICB Procurement ........................... 48
7.       Schedule for Procurement of Equipment &  Supplies
through TAPSO ................................... 49
S.       Schedule for Rehabilitation &  Construction of Buildings  ....                   ....... 50
9.       Schedule for Recruitment and Use of Consultants  ............... 51
10.      Schedule of Disbursement of the IDA  Credit  .................. 52
11.      Organigram  of Project Management ........................ 53
12.      Supervision Plan .................................                                        54
13.      Key Performance Indicators ............................. 55
14.   Economic and Financial Analysis .......................... 57
15.      Government's Letter of Sub-Sector Policy  ................... 71
16.      Documents Available in Project File ....................... 76
MAP
IBRD 26335 - Fisheries Sub-Sector Capacity Building Project



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BForrower:         Republic of Ghana
BenefIidary:       Ministry of Food and Agriculture
Amount:            SDR 6.2 million (US$9 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard with 40 years maturity
bZclQtWectives
and De OcriptIn:   The key objective of the project is to establish the long-term sustainability of
the fisheries resource and thereby maximize its contribution to the economy.
To achieve this objective, the project would strengthen the capacity of the
Department of Fisheries (DOF) of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture
(MOFA) for managing the sub-sector focusing on: formulation of policy and
management plans and their implementation; monitoring, control, surveillance
and enforcement; and promotion of the development of inland fisheries. Ihis
would require strengthening of the DOF through reorganization and staff
training; stock assessment, and preparation and implementation of management
plans for marine and inland fisheries; improvement of extension in aquaculture,
including the use of improved quality fingerlings; establishment of a
Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance (MCS) system for marine and inland
fisheries; and reform of the policy, legal, and regulatory framework in the sub-
sector to improve management, enhance private investment, and promote
sustainable catches of fish.
Benefits:          The main benefit of the project would be a major improvement in the
management of the fisheries resources which would lead to a recovery of the
fish stock. This, in turn, would allow for a sustainable increase in the
production of fish from the marine and inland fisheries; the long term biological
conservation, protection and sustainability of the resource; the prevention of
declines or collapses in fisheries production that would occur in the absence of
an appropriate and effective fisheries management regime; the improvement of
the economic efficiency, performance and profitability of the participants in the
fishery; and improvement in the institutional and policy frameworks for
sustainable development of the fisheries sub-sector.
RIUk:              'The main risks are financial (shortage of counterpart funds), institutional (the
DOF is weak relative to the task at hand and changes in management and
administrative processes and culture may not occur at the pace assumed), and
biological (the recovery of the fishery resources could be adversely affected by
unforeseen and uncontrollable environmental factors). Shortage of counterpart



- ii -
funds is a general public finance problem that affects all the agricultural
portfolio, and Government has indicated that this is a short-term problem, that
it in no way implies the sector's low priority in the public investment program,
that it does not expect the problem to continue, and that it intends to allocate
the necessary counterpart resources in the coming budgets. Rectification of the
institutional capacity weaknesses is a major component of the project, and many
of the actions needed to strengthen the DOF will be implemented up-front. The
biological risks would be minimized through the environmental quality
enhancement aspects of the project design. The protection of spawning
grounds from fishing, enforcement of mesh and gear standards, and the banning
of use of traps and explosives in fishing, are designed to protect juveniles, and
to enhance recruitment and regeneration of the fishery. IDA and the Borrower
would conduct detailed annual reviews of implementation, where the focus
would be advance identification of problems and solution, including assessing
institutional capacity and prospects for counterpart funding.



- iii -
Estimated Project Cost
Comnonent/Item                                LoaI        Foreign       IQ1n
--- (USS '000)
Strengthening of DOF                        2,507.2       1,879.8     4,387.0
Marine Fisheries Management                   667.0       1,423.0     2,090.0
bland Fisheries Management                    533.8         855.2     1,389.0
Monitoring, Control & Surveillance (MCS)      356.3       1,352.3     1.7Q8.6
Base Cost                              4,064.3      5,510.3      9,574.6
Contingencies
Physical                                     196.4        130.9        327.3
Expected Price Increases                     267.0        331.1         98.1
Sub-total                               463.4         462.0       925.4
Total Cost                             4.527.7      5,972.3    10.500.0
F1nancine Plan
IDA                                     3,027.7      5,972.3      9,000.0
Borrower                                I,500.0         --1S00
Total Financing                        4.527.7      5.972.3    10.S00.
Estimated Disbursement
_996  1997  I998  1999  20Q 200t
------- - (USS million)
Annual                               0.2   3.2   1.6   1.4   1.3  1.3
Cumulative                           0.2   3.4   5.0   6.4   7.7  9.0
Economic Rate
of Return:              44.8 percent.
Poverty !atcgor:         Not applicable.






*|;UBICOF GHANA
SLAEEBPPAISALJRFBIR
I. BACKGRON
A. Eooi  &U3n
Overview
I.1 Ghana is well endowed with natural resources, including arable land, forests, and sizable
mineral deposits of gold, diamonds, bauxite, and manganese, as well as some additional potential for
hydroelectric power. The economy has traditionally depended on primary production and exports of
cocoa and minerals. About 60 percent of the Ghanaian labor force is employed in agriculture.
Agricultural production is concentrated in staple food crops and cocoa. Ghana ranks among the
world's largest producers and exporters of cocoa. The service sector is the second largest employer-
over 25 percent of the labor force-accounting for over 40 percent of real GDP. It consists largely of
trade and public sector services. The industrial sector accounts for about 14 percont of GDP and
employment; it is relatively diverse sn well developed by Sub-Saharan African standards.
Performance
1.2 After a devastating economic performance throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, the
Government introduced an Economic Recovery Prograrn (ERP) in 1983 in order to: (a) restore and
sustain macroeconomic stability, (b) improve the efficiency of public sector resource managemnt,
and (c) create an incentive framework to enhance efficiency, encourage savings and investmet, and
provide an enabling environment for private sector development.
1.3 The Government has been implementing a program of wide-ranging financial reforms. It has
abolished interest rate controls and sectoral credit ceilings, improved the legal framework governing
banidng activities, and introduced uniform accounting and auditing standards for al banks. The
central bank is strengthening the supervision of bank. A program to restructure the finces and
manaement of distressed banks has bon completed. The country has establishod a small stock
exchange, which is expected to be a vehicle for floating shares of public enterprises to be diveted.
1.4   Ghana now has a market-determined exchange rate system and a relatively low-tariff trade
regime, free of quantitative restrictions. In April 1990, the Govenment introduced an interbank
market supported by a weeldy wholesale auction of foreign exchange, with a view to encouraging
such transactions among banks. More than half the foreign exchange in the itrbank markut is
supplied by the Central Bank. Foreip exchange transactions at the bureau de change were also
legalized in 1990. The spread betwee the interbank foreip exchange market and the bureaus has
continued to fall, and is currently les than 10 percont. The Government abolshed the import
licensing system in 1989. Tariffs on imports have been reduced substWatially, ad excise taxes on
imports have been st at par with localy produced goods. Export tax", except for those on cocoa,
have boen abolished.
1.S  The Govermment hbs succeeded in mobilizing greaer public revenues through tax reorm,
improved tax collections, ad rationalization of consumption taxes and usr chag. Public



investment has grown from negligible levels at the beginning of the ERP to about 9 percent of GDP
in 1993, and the focus has changed from direct investment in productive activities to rehabilitation of
economic and social infrastructure, especially roads and human resources development. Tariff and
pricing policy in the power and energy sectors has also been improved. To better rationalize the
public investment program, the Ministry of Finance has established a committee, with representatives
from sector ministries, which coordinates investments and policies across sectors.
Prospects
1.6   Despite the successful impact of the ERP in restoring a healthy growth in the economy, the
poverty level has not improved significantly enough to raise the standard of living of the population,
generate robust demand for goods and services to trigger supply response, and lead to robust and
sustained rise in private savings and investment. The large civil service, which account for 70
percent of the national budget, and its consequences on macroeconomic stability continue to be of
concern. However, the Government is committed to continue the economic reform program,
maintain macroeconomic stability, restructure public service with a view to improving capacity to
manage public expenditure and investment, promote private sector development, invest in the
development of human resources and infrastructure, and accelerate the rate of economic growth as
means of also alleviating poverty quickly. Ghana is expected to reach a growth rate of 5.6 percent by
the turn of the century. More rapid growth can be achieved earlier if the Government can restore and
maintain macroeconomic balance more quickly, proceed expeditiously with privatization, improve
capacity in the public and private sectors, and accelerate investments in infrastructure and human
resources development. In the early years, most of the expected growth is likely to come from
agriculture, mining, financial services and transport. Higher manufacturing growth will follow with a
lag.
1.7   Though the Government has been making progress in restoring macroeconomic stability since
the election-related fiscal shock of 1992, the macroeconomic situation remains an issue. For more
than a decade, Ghana has undertaken sustained fiscal adjustment. However, in the run-up to the 1992
elections, public service wage increases and revenue slippage led to the re-emergence of large fiscal
deficits and increases in money supply. Although the fiscal situation improved significantly in 1993-
albeit not as much as planned-and the economy grew by 5 percent, inflation rose to 27 percent by
December 1993. Lower GDP growth in 1994-due to poor rains and civil conflict in the north-and
continued monetary expansion have prevented a decline in inflation by the end of 1994. Thus,
stabilization will be a key feature of the 1995 budget.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Intoduction
1.8   Agriculture remains the dominant sector of the Ghanaian economy, contributing nearly half of
the GDP and about three quarters of export earnings. It provides a livelihood for about 70 percent of
the population. The nascent industrial sector depends on agriculture as a source of raw materials.
Agriculture is a key source of public revenues and has an important impact on both public and private
savings. Food expenditures account for a significant component of household budgets and, hence,
agriculture has a significant influence on real wages, the rate of inflation, private savings and
investment, and overall macroeconomic performance.



1.9 As in other sectors of the economy, the performance of the sector was poor prior to the
introduction of the ERP, with negative growth rates. Agriculture's growth rate improved after the
introduction of the ERP, although the 2 percent annual rate has lagged behind that of the economy as
a whole. The stage has, however, been set for an improved performance of the sector. The
Government has withdrawn from marketing of inputs and outputs. In the cocoa sub-sector, the
Government increased farm gate prices, which triggered a supply response from both replanting and
improved maintenance of existing trees. The Cocoa Board trimmed its operational expenses by
retrenching about 32,000 workers, which helped to finance the increased farm gate prices, and has
allowed competition by private traders in the marketing of the crop and of inputs. Those policy
measures, complemented by improved agricultural infrastructure and support services, and a stable
macroeconomic environment will be critical to improvement in the performance of the sector.
Characteristics of the Sector
1.10 Ghana's agriculture is predominantly smallholder, traditional, and rain-fed. The mean farm
size is about 1.6 ha. There is some degree of specialization by agro-ecological zones. For example,
tree crops tend to concentrate in the forest zones, livestock in savanna zones, and mixed cropping of
cereals and root crops are predominant in transitional zones. The common features, however, are the
use of bush fallow to restore soil fertility, mixed cropping to minimize risks, and widespread
integration of livestock into the farming systems. Land preparation and harvesting are done manualUy
in most places, and only very small proportion of the farmers use purchased inputs. Mechanization is
practiced only by a few commercial enterprises, and irrigated agriculture covers less than 10.000 ha.
The level of productivity is uniformly low by agricultural activities and agro-cological zones
throughout the country.
1.11 There are about 1.S million farm families. Women head 30 percent of the rural households,
and are responsible for about 70 percent of the total food production. The farmers are generally
market-oriented, but most of the production tends to be for subsistence due mainly to limited market
opportunities.
1.12 Root crops (dominated by cassava), plantain, and cocoyam account for about 55 percent of the
agricultural GDP. The balance is accounted for by industrial crops dominated by cocoa (15 percent),
cereals (7 percent), livestock (5 percent), fisheries (5 percent), and forestry, vegetables and
miscellaneous products (13 percent).
Growt Potential
1.13 The resource base for sustained growth is good, provided it is managed properly: large
untapped agricultural land, good forest and fisheries resources, low population density, good climate
that allows diverse agricultural activities year-round, and fairly literate and market orientod farming
population. The key to change lies in continued improvement in the competitiveness of the sector,
improvement of the incentive framework for expanding exports and import substitutes, accelerating
growth elsewhere in the economy to generate robust demand for agricultural products, and
strengthening the capacity of public institutions for policy formulation and implementation and for
managing properly the natural resources.



-4 -
C. The Fisheries Sub-Sector
'he Setting
1.14 Introduction. The fisheries sub-sector accounts for about 5 percent of the agricultural GDP
(value added of US$80 million at landing site and an equal amount generated by marketing and
processing); the Government can also earn substantial tax revenues from fishing activities, but that
potential has not yet been fully exploited. Fish is a preferred source of animal protein in Ghana, and
about 75 percent of the total production of fish is consumed domestically; the per capita consumption
is estimated at about 25 kg per annum (including about 35,000 tons of imports per year), representing
60 percent of the animal protein intake. Fish is the country's most important non-traditional export,
with an annual volume of about 30,000 tons earning about US$17 million. Some 500,000 fishers,
fish processors, traders, and boat builders and maintenance experts are employed in the industry;
these and their family members account for about 10 percent of the total population.
1.15 The sub-sector comprises a diverse and vigorous spectrum of fishing enterprises ranging in
scale from the subsistence to the industrial and exploiting fish stocks in rivers, lakes, coastal lagoons
and shallow seas, and offshore on the high seas up to the limits of the 200 mile Exclusive Economic
Zone (EEZ). The country has a coastline of about 550 km, and a narrow continental shelf (15-75
meter depth) with a total area of 24,300 km2 or 11 percent of the country's territorial waters. Inland
sources of fishing include 50 lagoons with a total area of 40,000 hectares, rivers, about 1,000 fish
farms, and lakes covering about one million hectares; the Volta Lake is the predominant one covering
about 900,000 hectares and with a shore-line of 5,000 km. The total fish catch from all sources
averaged about 335,000 tons per year over the last ten years, 85 percent of which was harvested from
marine and 15 percent from inland waters.
1.16 Marine Fisheries. The marine fisheries include tuna in offshore waters inside the EEZ and
beyond, and pelagic and demersal fish in the continental shelf area. Sardinellas, anchovy, and chub
mackerel are the most important small pelagic fish species. The most important demersal fish species
are of the families sparidae, pomadasidae, mullidae, sclaenidae, lutjanidae, serranidae, and
cephalopods.
1.17 The offshore waters, which yield about 10 percent of the total catch, are characterized by a
tuna fishery which extends to the high seas beyond Ghana's EEZ. Fishing is virtually all year round
by about 30 Ghanaian registered pole and line vessels targeting skipjack, yellow-fin and big-eye; some
70 percent of the catch is exported either for further processing or in canned/semi-processed form.
The management of the tuna resource is governed by the International Commission for the
Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), of which Ghana is a member, and has recommended
increased harvest of skipjack since the supply is abundant in the Atlantic Ocean. There are no quotas
allocated to members of the ICCAT, Ghana has the right to increase the volume of catch as much as
the volume dictated by the market and physical capacity for fishing by the tuna fleet. There is, thus,
a good potential for expansion of tuna fishing.
1.18 'Me continental shelf is currently fished by three groups:
(a)    a fleet of some 8,700 traditional wooden dug-out or planked canoes, half of them
motorized, operating from nearly 200 fishing villages along the coastline; they account
for about 65 percent of the total volume of catch. The number of canoes, which is
4ense at 15 per km of the coast-line, has remained stable over the past 15 yars. lbe



- 5 -
fishery operates for six days a week throughout the year, mainly targeting sardines and
anchovy. A variety of fishing gears are used including purse seines, ring and set nets,
respectively known locally as all, poli, and watsa. Demersal fin-fish species and
crustacea are also caught by the artisanal fishermen using various forms of bottom got
nets, gill and tangle nets;
(b)    a fleet of about three hundred diesel engine inshore vessels, which account for about 5
percent of the total catch. These use mainly light bottom trawls fitted without
mechanical aids, and became firmly established some years ago on the basis of good
catches of a semi-demersal trigger fish. This stock has largely disappeared in rect
years, and the sector is now in serious economic difficulty exacerbated by the
increasing cost of inputs, falling catch rates of the remaining demersal species, and
high debts. Increasing numbers of these vessels are now turning to purse seining in
competition with the canoe fishermen; and
(c)    a fleet of about forty large distant water freezer trawlers and shrimpers displaced from
their original fishing grounds in Angola, Namibia, Senegal and Mauritania because of
the extension of coastal state jurisdictions; they account for about 5 percent of the total
catch. The vessels are owned by private corporations and the State Fishing
Corporation, the latter of which has been divested. Tneir catches include a large
proportion of high value cephalopods, which are frozen at sea for export. The
industrial fleet is fishing illegally inside the 30 meter depth line using large nots whicb
scoop juvenile demersals, thus endangering the sustainability of the fisheries; the gean
used by the industrial fleet also destroy nets belonging to the artisanal fishermen
thereby creating more conflict. To compensate for the dwindling supply, the artisnal
and inshore fleet use larger nets and small-sized mesh, dynamite and chemicals, and in
the process are removing juvenile sardinella as well. The stiff competition and
extractive fishing practices have significantly reduced the stocks of some species and
catches per boat, and have pushed some of the fishermen to the point of financial
insolvency.
1.19 The statistics on the small pelagics are generally well kept, both at the national and regional
levels (there is close cooperation in small pelagic resource assessment among West African coastal
states, particularly between Ghana and Cote d'Ivoire). For small pelagic resources, the biomass
fluctuates significantly because of environmental factors. It is estimated, however, that the 1993 catch
of 180,000 tons is close to the maximum this fishery can sustain. The statistics on demersals are not
as reliable as those of the pelagics, but the available information indicates a maximum sustainable
yield of around 70,000 tons; actual catches have ranged up to 59,000 tons. Demersal resources on
trawable grounds appear to be excessively fished based on the evidence of declining catch per unit
effort; with appropriate management, the biomass of this fishery would recover leading to an increas
in the maximum sustainable catch. On untrawable grounds, the hand line fishery and bottom set net
fishing appear to operate at below the maximum sustainable yield. The maximum sustainable catch
of tuna in the Eastern Atlantic is estimated at 200,000 tons, about 40 percent of which is believed to
be in the Ghanaian waters; the actual catches by the Ghanaian fleet are around 35,000 tons compared
to a sustainable catch of some 80,000 tons.
1.20 Inad Fisheries. The commercially exploited resources in inland waters are mainly tilapia,
chrysithys, lates, alestes, eutropius, and schilbe. The potential yield from lake and river fisheries is
estimated at about 80,000 tons; present catches are about 60,000 tons. The Lake Volta is the



- 6 -
dominant source of inland catches, yielding about 40,000 tons per year; about 15,000 small planked
canoes fish on the Lake. There are also a number of fishing lagoons where fishing is done mainly for
subsistence. Aquaculture is currently not a significant source of fish production. There are now
about 1,000 farmers raising about 400 tons per year of tilapias and catfish on about 110 ha; 70
percent are in Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Eastern, and Western Regions, where costly transport of fresh
fish from the coastal fishing areas makes aquaculture viable. The technology used combines
fertilization of ponds by farm waste, and supplementary application of unformulated feedstuff, which
are mainly by-products from agro-industrial sources such as oil cakes, wheat and rice brans. There is
potential for further expansion of aquaculture, depending on its financial viability.
Public Sector Institutions
1.21 Department of Fisheries. The key public sector institution responsible for managing the
fisheries resources is the DOF of MOFA, whose activities were until recently focused on the
traditional roles of collecting statistical data, undertaking extension and development in the artisanal
fisheries and conducting research into the marine fish stocks. The Department has benefitted from
working with an industry which, in keeping with Ghana's strong union traditions, is well organized
into producer associations, and has accessed the fishing communities through well-developed systems
of traditional authority.
1.22 The DOF has its headquarters in Accra, a major branch in Tema, four regional and ten district
offices in the coastal areas. The office infrastructure at headquarters and the branches is generally in
good condition although a few need rehabilitation. The Department would need research vessels and
related technical equipment, computers and miscellaneous office equipment, a few additional vehicles
and motor cycles to be able to undertake sound stock assessment, monitor and enforce fisheries laws
and regulations, expand its extension activities, and disseminate information on the proper
management of the fish resources of the country.
1.23 The DOF is divided functionally into four branches: (a) Marine Fisheries, responsible for
coordinating statistics collection, extension, training and development work in the marine fisheries,
and for issuing fishing licenses; (b) Inland Fisheries, in charge of coordinating the collection of
market data, stock assessment on inland fisheries, provision of extension services to fishing
communities in inland areas, management of capture fisheries, and promotion of aquaculture
development; (c) Fisheries Research and Utilization Branch, which is responsible for undertaking
stock assessment and biological studies, monitoring oceanographic phenomena, and conducting
research and development in fishing gear in marine fisheries; and (d) Administration and
Operations Branch, in charge of accounts, personnel matters, monitoring of fishing operations and
marketing activities, and administration of donor-funded programs in the sub-sector. There are about
480 employees including professionals, technical staff, tradespeople (engineers and vessel crew), and
support and clerical staff.
1.24 The competencies of the few professional staff are of good standard, and the DOF has been
able to attract good caliber staff partly due to popular appreciation of the fisheries profession.
However, continuous training of staff would be essential to more effectively respond to the emerging
role of the public institutions in management, monitoring, control, surveillance, extension services,
and promotion of community participation in the management of the fisheries resources.
1.25 Fisheries Commission. In 1993, the Government established a Fisheries Commission (FC) for
regulating and managing the utilization of the fishery resources, coordinating policies, prescribing



- 7 -
standards for fishery products, coordinating international collaboration in fisheries, liaising with the
industry and other public and private bodies, and advising the Minister of Food and Agriculture on all
matters pertaining to the sub-sector. Membership of the Commission, appointed by the Head of
State, includes representatives of the fishing industry associations; MOFA; Ministries of Transport
and Communications, Defense, and Enviromnent; Institute of Aquatic Biology (IAB); the Ghana
Irrigation Development Authority; and four representatives of financial institutions and traden.
1.26 Department of Extension. This department of the MOFA is responsible for all agricultural
extension services, except cocoa which continues to be handled by the Cocoa Board. The
incorporation of fish farming extension into the unified extension system has met with varying degree
of success. The primary value of the front line extension agents is that they are mobile and in close
touch with the farming communities. They are, therefore, best placed to advise farners on the
potential for aquaculture in their areas, and to communicate demand for more specialized technical
services to the Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) in the DOF. It is not considered feasible to train
front line staff in the disciplines of site selection or pond design, which should be left to the
technicians, but is realistic to expect them, after suitable training, to recognize areas of high potential
and to screen out areas or holdings which do not have the basic requirements for fish farming. The
Department of Extension is adequately funded to enable regular training sessions to be conducted by
the SMSs from the DOF, although current activities in this area are inadequate. Therefore, the
unified extension service should prove an effective vehicle for aquaculture extension.
Private Sector Institutions
1.27 The fishing enterprises are represented by producer organizations which represent
consolidations of less coherent regional associations that have evolved with the industry. Tbey
continue to function without further Government assistance, fulfilling important roles in representing
the views of their membership to Government and to other sectors of the industry, and in the case of
the artisanal fishers' association, in organizing access to imported inputs and credit. Two women's
organizations (the National Council for Women, and Development and the 31st December Women's
Movement) are active in the promotion of new fish processing technology.
1.28 Fishing villages have traditional systems of governance, with the Chief Fisherman at the bhlm
for the men and a  onkoQhen for the women; both are essential for the management of anl
fishing. The Chief Fisherman is generally a powerful, well-respected and technically competeat
member of the fishing community who has special responsibilities to settle disputes, mediate with
migrant fishers, coordinate action in the event of accidents at sea, supervise the fair distribution of
any communally acquired inputs, and participates in religious rituals connected with the sea. He is
assisted by a Council of senior fishers and receives revenues to support his office through the
imposition of levies in kind at the landing beaches. In processing and trading, the female traditiiona
authority is elected by elders in the fish trade, is assisted in her office by a Council, and imposes
levies on traded fish. Her functions include representing the women in negotiations to set the daily
prices of fish, the settlement of disputes in the fish trade, and leads in other traditional activities. Tbe
two leaders co-exist and generally work together for the mutual benefits of their membes.
1.29 The fishers generally believe that resources are inexhaustible, fluctuations in yield are caused
by natural phenomenon and not by their actions, fishing should be accessible to all from within their
group, and that there should not be any Government restriction or interference in fishing activities.
The artisanal fishers, however, are inclined to obey rules issued by the traditionl authorities i the
fishing villages.



Markets and Marketing
1.30 The prospects for the domestic and export market are good. A combination of rising
population and income, and well established external market for tuna with operations by a major
importer (Star Kist Foods of U.S.A.) should continue to provide a firm market base. An expanding
population alone would increase the domestic demand by about 80,000 tons per year by the turn of
the century.
1.31 Marketing of fish is in the hands of numerous private traders, who operate by the laws of the
market unencumbered by state interference. Fish landed by canoes and the inshore fleet is sold
immediately to the fishers' wives, relatives, or agents, who, together with their fishmongers, do all
the handling, processing, and marketing. Some of the fish is sold directly to consumers at the landing
sites, but the bulk of it is smoked, sun-dried, or salted by the fish-mongers who buy directly from the
marketing agents. There has been a lot of improvement in the technologies of fishing handling,
preservation, processing, and distribution. The processed fish, which can remain in good condition
for about six months, is packed into cane baskets or wooden boxes and conveyed to markets in most
parts of the country. The fishmongers have their agents in these markets and the agents take care of
sales to consumers. Cured fish is also exported to neighboring countries by the fishmongers. The
demersals landed by the deep sea fleet are sold to agents at Tema, who freeze and sell them to
fishmonger for processing and marketing. The domestic marketing system functions fairly well, and
market signals are correctly transmitted in a timely fashion through the marketing chain.
Eishing Infrastructure
1.32 The Tema and outer fishing harbors offer the only sheltered berthing and landing facilities for
fishing vessels over 10 meters in length. There are only 210 meters of quay to accommodate landing
of fish and lay-by berths. The use of the facilities is hampered by a number of sunken and
inoperative vessels. Furthermore, the depth of much of the harbor at the quay is inadequate for the
largest vessels drawing 6.5 meters of water. The harbor at Takoradi provides limited use for large
fishing vessels, inshore vessels and canoes. There is also a small port for the inshore fleet at Elmina.
1.33 The Tema Shipyard and Drydock Corporation provides dry-docking and repair facilities for
large fishing vessels, and the Ghana Ports and Harbors Authority operates slip-ways in Tema and
Sekondi. A private firm (Mankoadze Fisheries Limited) operates a comprehensive engineering
workshop and foundry for all kinds of repair work. Other repair facilities include outboard motor
mechanics who usually operate from the fishing towns. There are three major boat-building
enterprises in Tema, Sekondi, and Mumford compared to over a dozen a decade ago; shortage of
skills, high cost of materials, and low demand have contributed to the decline in the number.
1.34 There are about 300 landing sites for artisanal fishers, but these are not sufficiently developed.
For the most part, the boats operate from open beaches and have to cross in and out through violent
surf. Canoes are often damaged severely as they attempt to land in the violent surf. Getting the
boats from their moorings on the beach into the sea for the outward journey and back again after the
return trip is also back-breaking.
The Leial Framework
1.35 Current fisheries legislation is embodied in the Fisheries Law of 1991 (PNDCL 256), and the
Fisheries Commission Act of 1993 (Act 457). Ibese describe the framework for: the construction or



-9 -
importation of fishing craft; the licensing and registration of fishing craft (including canoes),
conditions for licensing, scale of license fees and of fines for failure to license, grounds for revocation
or refusal to renew a license and appeals procedures; the manning of fishing vessels, including
competency and certification of crews; the seaworthiness of fishing craft; the carriage of log books;
specification of fishing zones, the regulation of mesh sizes in trawl, seine, purse seine, set and drift
net fisheries, the prohibition of gears or the restriction of gears to specific zones, the protection of
young or gravid lobsters and the imposition of closed seasons; the marking of all fishing craft and
submerged gears; the transhipment and export of tuna; the import and export of live fish; penalties for
offenses; the establishment, functions and powers of a Monitoring, Control, Surveillance and
Enforcement system (which has not yet been established); and the establishment and functions of a FC
and a Fisheries Development Fund.
1.36 The fisheries legislation is deficient in five principal areas: (a) there is no clear assigmnent of
responsibility for fisheries management, control, surveillance, and enforcement. The diffusion of
responsibilities between the DOF and FC creates confusion about the authority and responsibility for
the management of the fisheries resources, and exacerbates the problems of policy formulation and
implementation, and the enforcement of fisheries laws. It is not essential to have both institutions for
managing the sub-sector; (b) the power of the Government to restrict the size of the catcb (e.g.
through the imposition of a Total Allowable Catch or TAC), the power to impose a Minimum
Landing Size or MLS (which has proven to be useful in inland waters for the protection of valuable
fisheries for low-fecundity cichlid species and is usually considered an essential tool for the
management of the marine spicy lobster fishery), an explicit power to control fishing effort (e.g. by
restricting entry into the fishery) have been omitted; (c) no clear distinction is made between inland
and marine fisheries, and between artisanal and industrial fisheries, thus failing to appreciate the
fundamental differences among them; (d) fairly precise mesh sizes are prescribed in the Law and
towed gear is prohibited within the 30 meter contour without much scientific basis. Such
prescriptions ought rather be treated in the regulations for ease of modifying them in the light of
changing scientific evidence and management needs; and (e) some of the provisions which are
included in the Law (such as minimum mesh size, observations of safety regulations interdiction of
moveable gear inside the 30 meter contour) are not enforced.
Public ExDenditures and Revenues in the Sub-Sector
1.37 The fisheries sub-sector is dominated by the private sector. In the past, the public sector was
heavily involved in direct investment in capture fisheries through the State Fishing Corporation, but
Government has scaled down its direct investment and currently holds only a minority share in
privately owned corporations. The focus of the public sector now is in the provision of support
services (extension, research, market intelligence, and export promotion), formulation of policies that
enhance the private sector, enforcement of laws and regulations affecting the sub-sector, and
divestiture of State Fishing Corporation. This shift in policy has reduced the total public sectr
expenditure in the sub-sector.
1.38 Over the past five years, public expenditure in the sub-sector, consisting of budgetary
allocation to the DOF, hovered around US$500,000 per year. About 70 percent was used to finance
staff salaries and benefits, 10 percent for travel, and only 20 percent for all other expenses including
maintenance of buildings, purchases, operation and maintenance of equipment, investment in
aquaculture, and data processing. The share of expenditures on salaries and benefits has teDded to
increase, while the proportion of expenditure on other activities has tended to decline.



- 10-
1.39 The Government collects revenues from fishers and fish importers, which in the past amounted
to an equivalent of about 70 percent of the public expenditures in the sub-sector. Sources of the
revenues include: (a) a Fisheries Development Fund, an account within MOFA, which was
introduced in 1993. The only current source of deposit into the Fund is a special levy imposed on
imported fish. The levy is only 10 cedis/kg; (b) license fees levied on the industrial and semi-
industrial fisheries at the rate of 0.1 percent of the value of catch at the first point of sale. Total
collections ranged between US$20,000 and US$45,000 per year in the past five years; (c) revenues
from the sale of fingerlings and fisheries inputs averaging around US$3,000 per year; and (d)
insignificant fines on fishers for violations of regulations.
Prospects
1.40 Substantial production increases are possible in the export-oriented tuna fisheries, and a
vigorous effort by the private sector would need to be made to achieve this. The highly valuable
demersal stocks closer in-shore are being over-fished. With appropriate management, these stocks
can recover and some expansion beyond the current catch level is possible. In addition, some
expansion of catch of demersal species, crustaceans, and shrimps in deeper water is possible. The
long-term biological limit and maximum sustainable catch of small pelagics can not be realistically
predicted because the fisheries have limited longevity, are prone to high mortality, and the biomass is
subject to extreme fluctuations due to changes in hydro-climatic conditions. The potential increase in
the inland fishery is very modest. There is some potential for an expansion of the fishery in Lake
Volta. The prospects for aquaculture development, which depend on the financial viability of
investment in pond construction and maintenance, appear to be promising. Systematic efforts need to
be made to develop technologies which could improve the viability of the operations.
D. Government's Development Strategy
1.41 The potential for and need to accelerate agricultural growth were the underlying themes of a
rolling Medium-Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS), formulated by the Government
with assistance from IDA in 1990. The MTADS examined the main constraints to sector growth and
set out strategic objectives to address them. The identified constraints were: poorly organized and
managed agricultural support services, neglected rural infrastructure particularly feeder roads, weak
capacity of public sector institutions for managing the sector, over-exploitation of natural resources
exacerbated by inadequate public sector capacity for formulating and enforcing appropriate policy,
and adverse public sector interference in marketing and pricing of inputs and outputs. The
development priorities were: setting clear objectives in research, extension, animal and plant disease
control, strengthening institutions to provide these services and to regulate natural resource use,
concentrating on low-level infrastructure and decentralizing investment decisions to respond more
rapidly to the needs of rural communities, increasingly relying on the private sector for the marketing
of inputs and outputs, improving the policy framework to promote exports of agricultural products,
and promoting sustainable and environmentally-friendly use of natural resources. A target growth
rate of 4 percent per annum was established as a benchmark. This target was considered the
maximum achievable, given the record of the past where traditional production methods are slow to
change, and poor farmers' inherent tendency to risk aversion.
1.42 In the fisheries sub-sector, Governmnent objectives are to increase production for local
consumption and export, consistent with the long-term sustainability of the resource, develop resource
management plans for the entire fisheries sector, integrate fishing activities in the farming system
througb the promotion of aquaculture, privatize assets and operations of public bodies oigaged in



- I1 -
direct fishing or in the supply of fishing gear, and strengthen the fisheries department so that it can
effectively carry out its mandate, particularly relating to the above tasks. In order to attain these
objectives, the Government intends to undertake the following reforms, programs and projects: (a)
pursue a private sector oriented strategy and divest public sector commercial assets and concerns; (b)
remove policy bottlenecks to increased exploitation of tuna resources and promote private investment
in rehabilitation and expansion of the tuna fleet, so as to increase exports; (c) promote, through
extension and other support services, private smallholder investment in aquaculture, especially in the
hinterland; (d) promote joint ventures between Ghanaian and foreign investors in trawl fishing so a
to obtain foreign fishing rights for the Ghanaian trawler fleet and stop its over-exploitation of in-shore
demarsal fisheries; (e) rationalize exploitation of both marine and lake fisheries resources, through
stock assessment surveys and comprehensive management plans, aimed at harvesting various specie
only up to the maximum sustainable yield in order to prevent the possible collapse of critical fisherie
and increase exploitation of under-utilized resources; (f) update the fisheries law so as to facilitate a
regulatory framework in which the fisheries management plan would be effectively carried out; and
(g) strengthen the DOF and related institutions and fishers' groups so they can effectively implement
the fisheries management plans, including monitoring, control and surveillance.
1.43 All subsidies to fishing inputs have been removed, including the subsidy to the premix fuel for
canoe fishers. The State Fishing Corporation, the largest state commercial concern in the sector, has
been privatized, and its eight ships have been sold.
1.44 Government would continue to encourage the private sector to increase the catch and export of
tuna. the tuna industry has been constrained by low world market prices, which are now beginning
to recover, and insufficient credit in the face of low cash positions of the tuna companies. The
recovery of international prices and resumption of tuna processing by the USA-based Star Kist
corporation, which buys the tuna from Ghanaian vessels, has begun to restore profitability to some
enterprises. Govermment will promote joint ventures and investment in local tuna processing and
canning enterprises.
1.45 For the non-tuna industrial fleet, Government policy would focus on removing the trawler fleet
to the outer sea, where under-exploited resources are available. A key element of this policy will be
the enforcement of fisheries laws and regulations relating to fishing restrictions in the continental
shelf. The in-shore fishing enterprises are at present experiencing financial distress, aggravated by
depletion of the inshore fisheries. Government strategy will focus on relief in the medium-erm
through enforcement of the 30 meter exclusion of large trawlers and implementation of fisheries
management plan aimed at restoring the demersal stock. In inland fishing, Government intends to
carry out stock assessments, prepare a management plan and continuously monitor its implementation.
Aquaculture and other fisheries in the smaller inland water bodies offer an opportunity to improve
nutrition in the hinterland and increase incomes of the small farmer in the context of the mixed
integrated fish/crop/livestock activities. Government intends to promote aquaculture through research
in appropriate husbandry, and farmer education in the framework of MOFA's unified extension.
1.46 The above-outlined Government development strategy for the fisheries sub-sector is
summarized in the Government's Letter of Sub-Sector Policy (Annex 15).
E. EDA's Assistance StrategD
1.47 IDA support for agriculture in recent years has been fully consistent with the priorities sot out
in the MTADS. Since 1990, there have been six new IDA operations in agriculture, one Sector



- 12 -
Adjustment Credit concerned with the withdrawal of the State from marketing and input supply; three
credits supporting agricultural services in the public sector (Research, Extension, and Livestock); one
credit supporting public institutions charged with regulating and managing natural resources
(Environment); and one credit supporting decentralized investment in rural infrastructure (Agricultural
Sector Investment). IDA has also supported complementary investment in national feeder roads
improvement program. To-date, agriculture had accounted for about 11 percent of the cumulative
Bank Group lending to Ghana.
1.48 IDA's support for the agricultural sector over the next few years will be fully consistent with
the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). IDA would continue to work closely with the
Government to improve the implementation performance of the on-going portfolio, and the
performance would have significant impact on the design of new lending programs. In addition to the
proposed project, three new operations are planned in the agricultural sector over the next few years:
a Sector Adjustment Credit, a Wildlife Resources Management Project, and a second Forestry
Resources Management Project.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.49 The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS, and is specifically mentioned in the
CAS that was discussed by the Board on April 14, 1994. The CAS emphasized capacity building,
private sector led development, improved management of natural resources and the environment, and
support to programs that have short life spans and that are locally generated and owned. The focus of
the proposed project would be institutional strengthening and policy reform to improve management
of a key natural resource, and to enhance private sector investment in the fisheries sub-sector. The
project would have a short life span of five years. The proposed project was developed by the
Government with active participation of implementing agencies (para. 2.1), and taking account of
lessons learned from previous operations; that process ensured high quality at entry.
1.50 The proposed project would complement IDA's previous support for complementary activities
in livestock and agricultural support services. Despite the good potential for development of both
marine and inland fisheries, the sub-sector had not received previously adequate funding under the
public investment program. The Government is now committed to realizing that potential by
encouraging private investment, improving the policy and regulatory framework, and strengthening
the institutional framework for public support services. In order to maintain the predominantly
private sector nature of the fisheries sub-sector, Government interventions would be confined to the
provision of support services such as extension, research, surveillance of both foreign and domestic
fishers, improved legal and regulatory framework, and infrastructure. This way, the foundation
would be built for attaining the long-term potential of the sub-sector, improving the productivity and
incomes of the large number of fishers and women traders and processors, and diversifying the export
base.
G. Lessons From Previous Operations
Ghana Portfolio
1.51  The 1994 Annual Portfolio Performance Review indicated the following main difficulties In
Ghana: weak management and project implementation capacity, procurement delays, inadequate
and/or untimely release of counterpart funds, and inefficient donor coordination. The main focus of
the proposed project would be to prioritize the role of the public sector institutions in fisheries



- 13 -
development, taking account of the limited human and financial resources, improve the capacity of the
public sector institutions for planning and implementing the priority activities, and improve the data
base and regulatory framework for monitoring developments in the sub-sector. The design would,
therefore, be simple with sharply defined objectives. Use of standard bidding documents would be
mandatory under the proposed project, and that would avoid delays in procurement; detailed
procurement schedules would be prepared for all items to be financed under the project and were
agreed during negotiations. Unlike other sub-sectors, there are only a few donors involved in the
fisheries sub-sector (mainly Denmark, Germany, and UNDP), and there are no problems of donor
coordination.
1.52 IDA's only experience in the fisheries sub-sector in Ghana was through a FY70 Fisheries
Project (Credit 163-GH), which included construction of fishing vessels, consultant services to
manage the construction, credit to fishermen to purchase the vessels, and studies on fisheries and port
development. The project was not considered a success. It was poorly designed; it had no
institutional development objective; appraisal was done without sufficient basic information on fish
resources; the studies were not useful since they were beset with disagreements among the Borrower,
the consultant and IDA; and it was not supervised properly. Lessons learnt from this project have
been incorporated in the preparation of the proposed project.
Bank Group's Support for Fisheries Elsewhere
1.53  The Bank Group has so far financed 35 free-standing fisheries projects and a further 60
fisheries components of agricultural projects in 40 countries, including 13 countries in Sub-Sahara
Africa. Total cost of the projects supported was US$1.4 billion, and the Bank Group financing was
US$600 million. The fisheries programs included improvement of fishing port and harbor facilities,
boat-yards, workshops, access roads, fuel depots, and water supply facilities; construction of
processing, storage, and other marketing facilities and of fish ponds and hatcheries; purchases of
fishing vessels and gear for use by private fishermen; and technical assistance and training.
1.54 About half of the projects completed achieved their intended objectives. The rest had suffered
severe cost over-runs, delays in completion, did not result in strengthened fisheries institutions, and
had poor records of credit repayment. The problems stemmed from technical and administrative
weaknesses in the implementing agencies, and from the Bank Group's limited fisheries expertise and
technical input during the process of design, appraisal, and supervision. Similar problems continue to
plague the existing portfolio.
1.55 The key lessons are: design projects to fit the capacity of implementing agencies; focus public
investment in capacity building and infrastructure that would enhance private sector activities;
promote good management practices by empowering beneficiaries; improve the statistical, legal,
regulatory, and policy framework to promote sustainable fishing; avoid public sector investment in
activities that can best be undertaken by the private sector; strengthen research and extension services;
promote close linkages between fisheries and other sub-sectors of agriculture; and generate
investment/lending programs after thorough sub-sector reviews.



- 14 -
II. TilE PROJE
A. Inroduction
2.1   The project was identified and prepared by the Government. In June 1993, the Government
organized a national workshop on the fisheries sub-sector to review the development potential and
constraints, arLd to reach a consensus on a broad development strategy. Following the workshop, a
Fisheries Sub-Sector Development Strategy through the turn of this century was prepared, which was
used as a basis for preparing the proposed project. The Government appointed a team of local
consultants to prepare the project, who consulted extensively with farmers, associations of fishers,
traders, professionals from various agriculture-related institutions, NGOs, and donors in the course of
formulating the project. An FAO team helped the Government in finalizing the preparation, and a
final preparation report was submitted to IDA at the end of May 1994.
B. Protect Rationale & Design Criteria
2.2   The fisheries sub-sector needs urgent attention to resolve a variety of problems accumulated
over decades of neglect. The most prominent of the problems are decline in the stock of fish, the
proliferation of demersal trawling effort in the near-shore waters all competing for and extracting the
dwindling supply of stock, absence of an active management regime, weak institutional and legal
frameworks for effectively managing the fisheries resources, and a growing financial crisis in the
industry as the heavy investments by the numerous fishers now become unprofitable due to the
declining resource and rising cost.
2.3   Classical marine fisheries management tools (restricting entry, closed seasons and areas,
miunimum mesh sizes, quota arrangement, minimum fish sizes), can only be applied with limits in
Ghana in a fishery dominated by a large number of artisanal fishermen, holding traditional beliefs and
in the presence of some fishing stocks of which the biomass is largely unaffected by human effort.
Under present circumstances, conventional management appears most suitable to deal with distant
water trawlers and shrimpers, and the semi-industrial inshore vessels.
2.4   The demersal stocks can recover under an appropriate conventional management, and the
inshore and canoe fisheries would benefit if the extractive industrial trawler fishing is controlled on
the continental shelf. For the artisanal fishery, the preferred management option is to improve the
data base and general information on effort and participants, introduce some gear controls, and
monitor it closely while establishing trust and cooperation with the traditional authorities to promote
community-based rational management.
2.5   The organization and legal framework for the management of the fisheries resources are weak,
and need to be strengthened. Fundamental measures for fishery management are omitted entirely
from legislation which defines neither the responsibilities of the DOF nor the rights and powers of its
officers. The administrative framework for the fisheries sub-sector evolved in a context of expansion
and rapid technological development in the artisanal fisheries, and of comparable growth in an
industrial fleet acquired to exploit offshore resources throughout the West African sub-region. This
has not changed. Toe loss of distant water opportunities, the parallel dramatic increase in fishing
presure on domestic stocks, and the severe erosion of profitability in the artisanrl and inshore
fthsries In recent years require a major shift in emphasis of administration away from promotion of



- 15 -
extractive fishing and towards pro-active management for sustainable production. The challenge in
the years ahead will be to build knowledge and a policy-making capability in the fisheries
administration to allow it to formulate and implement fully informed management decisions which
meet with the largest possible national consensus.
2.6   Other design criteria include: assigning fisheries management responsibilities and executive
powers to only one institution, and avoiding the proliferation of institutions and overlapping
responsibilities; minimizing the impact of the project on the public expenditure program; ensuring
consistency with the ERP; promoting private sector participation in implementing the project through
contractual arrangements; involving the project beneficiaries in the design and implementation of the
project; and ensuring consistency with sector development strategy and other public investment
programs in the agricultural sector.
C. Project Objectives and Components
2.7   The key objective of the project is to establish the long-term sustainability of the fisheries
resource and thereby maximize its contribution to the economy. To achieve this objective, the project
would build the capacity of the DOF for managing the sub-sector, focusing on capacity for:
formulating policy and management plans and their implementation; monitoring, control, surveillance,
and enforcement; and promoting the development of inland fisheries. This would involve:
(a)    strengthening of the DOF through reorganization and staff training,
(b)    stock assessment, and preparation and implementation of management plans for marinm
and lake fisheries,
(c)    strengthening of extension in aquaculture,
(d)    establishment of MCS system for marine and inland fisheries, and
(e)    reform of the policy, legal, and regulatory framework in the sub-sector to improve
management, enhance private investment, and promote sustainable catches of fish.
D. Det idFalre
Strenrthening of the DOF (USS5 million)
2.8  The DOF would be re-organized to give prominence to resource management functions, avoid
ambiguities among units, improve efficiency in the utilization of human and material resources, more
clearly define authority and accountability, and improve professional job satisfaction. This would
involve three existing divisions (Marine Fisheries Research, Inland Fisheries Management, and
Administration), and two new divisions (Marine Fisheries Management, and MCS). Fifteen
additional professional staff would need to be assigned including eleven for the new MCS Division,
and one economist and one sociologist each for the Marine and Inland Fisheries Management
Divisions. The total complement of staff would still be within the approved civil service staffing limit
for the DOF of 521. The present and projected staffing of the DOF is shown in Annex 1.
2.9 Tbe project would strengthen the capacity of the DOP in financial management, including dbo
coUlection and management of fisheries levies, improved accounting and control of developmeot



- 16-
funds, and proper budget planning and management. The department would need to increase the
levies and more aggressively collect them, which would help finance the anticipated increase of public
services to the industry. So far, the industry has not been making substantial financial contributions.
The only contribution has been in the form of license fees charged to only the mechanized fleet; the
canoe fleets, which account for the major share of total catch, are not charged. Even the levies on
the mechanized fleet are insignificant, amounting to only 0.1 percent of the catch.
2.10 The project would finance: technical assistance to help improve financial control and
management (65 person-months to be recruited locally); training of staff (focusing on extension
methods, marketing with emphasis on post-harvest technology, aquaculture and reservoir fish culture
techniques, and fisheries resources management, fisheries economics, monitoring, control, and
surveillance); rehabilitation of the DOF's offices at headquarters and branches, and construction of
new ones; monitoring and evaluating the project; vehicles, and office equipment and supplies; and
incremental operating expenses. The training program for the first year is discussed in Annex 2.
This component would account for 47 percent of the total project cost.
2.11  As a condition of effectveness the Borrower shall assign the following key professional staff
to DOF: eleven MCS personnel, two economists, two sociologists, and at least one accountant on
terms and conditions which shall be satisfactory to IDA at all times (para. 5.1 (a)). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30 of each year,
prepare and submit to IDA, for its review and comment, an annual training program covering the
period twelve months commencing on the following January 1, and make such revisions to such
training program as may be appropriate, and except as IDA shall otherwise agree, carry out training
on the basis of such annual training programs (para. 5.2 (a)), and (b) submit to Parliament, not later
than June 30, 1996, a revised fisheries legislation that shall be acceptable to IDA (para. 5.2 (b)).
Marine Fisheries Management (USS2.2 million)
2.12 The project would support demersal and pelagic stocks assessment; the statistics for tuna are
generally satisfactory. Tne demersal assessment would be done through trawling trials and catch
evaluation, supplemented by logbook inspections, weighing samples at quay-side, surveillance
information and inspections of catch to obtain a more complete picture of the industrial catch. The
pelagic stock assessment would be done through acoustic surveys. The well established shore-based
statistical system for the artisanal fleet would be continued, but this would be intensified through more
frequent updating of the frame survey, aerial census, registration of canoes, and improvement of the
quality of industrial fisheries statistics. Information on the stock of fish would be used to prepare
management plans and their periodic updating; the management plans for the artisanal fishery are
expected to focus on promotion of community-based management through the traditional leadership
structure with enforcement of laws and regulations to be used for support and reinforcement of
traditional authority. Details are in Annex 3.
2.13 The project would flnance the rehabilitation of an existing Ghanaian research vessel, which on
previous occasions has been used for stock assessment, to extend its useful life by about ten years;
cost of contracting the acoustic surveys; vehicles, and technical and office equipment; 12 person-
months of internationally recruited technical assistance to help in preparing management plans; and
incremental operating expenses. This component would account for 21 percent of the total project
cost.



- 17 -
2.14 During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower shall: (a) remove from inside
the 30 meter depth line all trawlers in excess of 50 gross registered tonnage not later than June 30,
1996 (para. 5.2 (c)), (b) complete the registration of the canoe fleet not later than December 31, 1996
(para. 5.2 (d)), (c) (i) ensure that levies on all vessels other than the canoe fleet have been increased
to the equivalent of one percent of the gross landed value of catch by not later than June 30, 1997,
(ii) by June 30, 1998 review the experience with the initial increase including, in   j, the adequacy
of the levies and their impact on the industry, (iii) furnish the recommendations of said review to IDA
for review and comments, and (iv) implement said recommendations taking into account IDA's
comments (para. 5.2 (e)), and (d) submit to IDA not later than December 31, 1996 a strategy for
implementing appropriate fisheries management plans (para. 5.2 (f).
Inland Fisheries Management (USS1.5 million)
2.15 The project would support improved management and development of lake fisheries through
stock assessment and promotion of community-based management of fisheries resources in lakes,
initially focusing on Lake Volta; and the expansion of aquaculture through strengthened extension in
aquaculture. The extension package would include: site selection, choice of species for pond culture,
stocking densities, integrated culture systems (e.g., rice-cum-fish, fish and pig, fish with ducks or
poultry), feeding and choice of available agro-industrial by-products, manuring of ponds, grow-out
period, use of siphons for ponds draining, harvesting and marketing, and record keeping and business
management. Substantive research results are available from international research institutions, such
as the International Center for Living Aquatic Resources Management (Philippines), which can readily
be adopted to conditions in Ghana. The IAB has also done some research in aquaculture, and has the
capacity to develop more technological packages with funding under the on-going IDA-supported
National Agricultural Research Project). The extension program would be closely linked with the
unified agricultural extension service, and the responsible fisheries officers would serve as subject-
matter-specialists (SMSs). Because of the high specialty of aquaculture, the SMSs would extend
direct advice to selected lead farmers until the capacity of the front-line staff of the Department of
Extension is developed. Support would also be provided to selected Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs) which are already active in the promotion of integrated agriculture-aquaculture development.
2.16 The project would finance the cost of stock assessment and related fishery investigation on
principally Lake Volta, and preparation and implementation of management plans in lake fisheries;
vehicles and equipment; 18 person-months of internationally recruited technical assistance In
aquaculture and stock assessment; seed money to encourage local NGO-participation in the promotion
of aquaculture through intensive integrated aquaculture-agriculture production, and extension activities
associated with aquaculture, including support for a fingerling production and aquaculture
demonstration center. This component would account for 15 percent of the total project cost.
Monitoring. Control. and Surveillance (USSI.8 million)
2.17 The project would create active monitoring, control, and surveillance (MCS) systems in both
marine and lake fisheries. At-sea MCS function would be contracted out to the Ghanaian Navy for
about 60 ship-days per year to be applied at random and in unpredictable manner for MCS activities
along and beyond the 30 meter depth line; the full cost of naval MCS would be financed by the
Govermnent as part of its counterpart financial contribution to the project. The naval MCS activities
would be supplemented by land-based activities to be undertaken by the DOF. All MCS functions
would be managed by DOF's MCS Division through a command and control center to be established
at headquarters.



- 18 -
2.18 The project would finance the purchases of small patrol boats to be used in lakes; vehicles and
equipment for land-based patrols; 8 person-months of technical assistance to help set up the MCS
system; and incremental operating expenses associated with the MCS activities. This component
would account for 17 percent of the total project cost.
E. Project Cost
2.19 The total project cost is estimated at US$10.5 million. The cost estimate includes a physical
contingency of 15 percent on civil works. Allowances for expected price increases are computed
based on projected international price increases of 2.0 percent in 1995, 2.5 percent in 1996, 2.7
percent in 1997, 2.5 percent in 1998, 2.6 percent in 1999, and 2.7 percent in 2000; base costs are
computed using prices prevailing in December 1994. The cost estimate is summarized below; the
schedule of expenditure is in Annex 4.



- 19 -
Project Cot
Percent
Item                 Local       Foreign        Total       Foreipn
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   ____   _Exchange
(USS '000)
Strengthening of DOF
Equipment                            10.5          94.5        105.0       90
Buildings                          1,189.2        792.8       1,982.0      40
Training                            812.5         812.5       1,625.0      50
Technical Assistance                195.0                      195.0       0
Monitoring & Evaluation             180.0            -         180.0       0
Incremental Operating Expense.      120.0         180.0        300.0       60
Sub-Total                   2,507.2       1,879.8      4,387.0      43
Marine Fisheries Management
Vossel Rehabilitation               325.0         325.0        650.0       50
Acoustic Survey                         -         250.0        250.0      100
Equipment                            41.0         369.0        410.0       90
Technical Assistance                 12.4         113.6        126.0       90
Incremental Operating Expenses      288.6         365.4        654.0       56
Sub-Total                     667.0       1,423.0      2,090.0      68
Inland Fishenos Management
Vehicles & Equipment                 22.5         202.5        225.0       90
Fingerling/Aquaculture Center       120.0          80.0        200.0       40
Technical Assistance                 18.9         170.1        189.0       90
NGO Support                          80.0          20.0        100.0       20
Incremental Operating Expense.      292.4         I=           675.        56
Sub-Total                     533.8        855.2       1,389.0      62
Naval Patrol                        180.0         720.0        900.0       s0
Coastl & LAke Patrol                 50.3         452.7        503.0       90
Technical Assistance                  8.4          75.6         84.0       90
Incremental Operating Expensoe      11.           104.0        221.6       47
Sub-Total                     356.3       1,352.3      1,708.6      79
Total Base Cost             4,064.3       3,510.3      9,574.6      58
Contingeneso
Physical                            196.4         130.9        327.3       40
Expected Price Increases            26           331.18        auLI        55
Sub-Total                     463.4        462.0         925.4      S0
G1kAND TOTAL                       4,527.7      3,972.3      10,500.0      57



- 20 -
F. Financing
2.20 An IDA credit of US$9 million is proposed, which would finance 85 percent of the total
project cost. The Republic of Ghana would finance the remaining US$1.5 million of the project cost,
which would be manageable when spread over a 5-year implementation period; the counterpart
funding requirements for each year of the project is shown in Annex 5.
2.21 Establishment by the Borrower in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA of a Project Account
with an Initial deposit of US$100,000 equivalent in local currency to cover counterpart expenditures
shall be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (para. 5.1 (b)). Counterpart funding
requirements by years and project components are shown in Annex S.
G. Procurement
2.22 Goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more per contract and rehabilitation of the research
vessel that would be used for marine stock assessment would be procured following international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines; four contracts worth about US$325,000,
US$425,000, US$195,000, and US$665,000 would fall in this category. Equipment (such as
laboratory, oceanographic, office, and telecommunication) estimated to cost about US$325,000 wou.ld
be procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the UNDP. Goods
estimated to cost below US$40,000 per contract but not exceeding an aggregate of
US$325,000 would be procured by local shopping with written quotations from at least three different
suppliers. Civil works, costing about US$2,610,000 would be tendered in lots of about 35 contracts
following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which would be acceptable to IDA. These
would not be suitable for ICB since the works would be dispersed over several locations and the
amounts would be too small to attract foreign bids. Tle LCB procedures would, however, allow bids
from foreign contractors. Consultants would be recruited in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to IDA on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." Training programs would be
developed and trainees would be selected in consultation with IDA. Miscellaneous items under
incremental operating expenses would be procured following existing Government practices and
procedures.
2.23 Schedules for procurement of equipment under ICB and through IAPSO, and civil works under
LCB are shown in Annex 6, 7, and 8, respectively. Tne timetable for recruitment of consultants is
shown in Annex 9. The first year training program is discussed in Annex 2; the programs of training
for subsequent years would be specified during implementation, in consultation with IDA, when
project managers would have input in determining the priorities of training, selection of trainees, and
duratkon of training. Prior review by IDA would be required of all procurement packages,
recomrnmendations for award, and contracts for works and goods above a threshold of US$100,000.
The review process would cover about 60 percent and 85 percent, respectively, of the total values of
.he contracts for works and goods; selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold
:evels would be carried out on about I out of 4 such contracts. Prior review would be required of
;ontracts for consultant services above the threshold of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,00 for
ndiv;duals.
.24  Delays in prourerne:nt have had a significant adverse impact on performance of the IDA's
*  irt<;c im The pas:. Improvements have, however, been made in the recent past due mainly to the
f   ,i e4        pri.eduure- for internal review and approval of procurement for goods and



- 21 -
works, and for recruitment of consultants. Training of project staff by IDA, adoption of standard
bidding documents, and simplified procedures for the selection of consultants have contributed to the
improved performance. The project would benefit from these improvements. The Project
Coordination Unit of MOFA, which would coordinate procurement on behalf of the DOF, has had
extensive experience in procurement under previous IDA-assisted projects, and would assign qualified
staff to manage procurement under this project. Use of IDA's standard bidding document for
procurement of goods would be mandatory; sample bidding documents for use in procurement under
LCB (civil works) were prepared and agreed with IDA at negotiations. Finalization of tender
documents for the procurement of vehicles and equipment under ICB, and of arrangement for the
rehabilitation of a research vessel, shall be a condition of effectiveness (para. 5.1 (c)). The schedules
for procurement of goods and works, selection of consultants and training, along with the, standard
times for various procurement actions up to contract signing were agreed during negotiations and
reflected in the minutes of negotiations.
2.25 The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project elements are shown below:
Procedures and Amounts a/
Item              ICB         LCB        Others     Total
l  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    (USS'000) 
Vehicles &                  945                     325      1,270
Equipment                  (945)                   (325)    (1,270)
Vessel Rehab.               665          -                    665
(665)                             (665)
Civil Works                  -         2,610                 2,610
(2,480)               (2,480)
Consultants                                         565       565
(565)     (565)
Training
.         1,760     1,760
(1,760)   (1,760)
Incremental
Opr. Expenses                                      2,200     2,200
(1,880)   (1,880)
Naval MCS, Acoustic          -                     1,430     1,430
Survey, & NGO Contract                             (380)     (380)
Total             1,610       2,610       6,280     10,500
_  (1,610)     (2,480)     (4,910)   (9,000)
I/ Fgmres in parenthescs are amounts financed by the IDA credit. Tolzal include contingencies.



- 22 -
H. Dlsbursement
2.26 The amounts and percentages of disbursement of the proposed IDA credit are summarized
below:
Category of      Amount Allocated    % of Expenditure to
Expenditures        (US$ '000)          be Financed
Civil Works             2,100                   95
Equipment &
Vehicles                1,270               100/90
Training                1,760                  100
Consultant Services      945                   100
Vessel Rehabilitation    665                100/90
Operating
Expenses                1,880           100 during 1996-1998
70 in 1999-2000.
Unallocated              380
Total            9,000          _
The disbursements would be completed in 5 1/2 years. The estimates are based on the projected rate
of construction/rehabilitation of buildings, and on expected timing for delivery of equipment and
vehicles, provision of consultancy services, rehabilitation of a research vessel, and carrying out of
stock assessment. The disbursement profile for the agricultural sector in the Africa Region shows
disbursements extending over about 7 1/2 years, but the shorter disbursement period under the project
is based on the following: (a) about 50 percent of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed
against civil works, vehicles and equipment, and rehabilitation of a research vessel; these would be
nearly completed not later than the second year of project implementation; (b) about 20 percent of the
credit would be disbursed against incremental expenses mostly associated with MCS and stock
assessment, and these would start accruing at the start of project implementation; and (c) most of the
remaining 30 percent would be disbursed against training for which detailed implementation programs
would be prepared every year in consultation with IDA; the training component would be monitored
closely during implementation to ensure compliance with agreed timetables. Operating expenditures
would include the incremental costs incurred under the project to finance utilities, fuel and other
vehicle operatirg expenses, per diem while on assignment away from duty stations, cost of temporary
hired labor, cost of publications, and costs of office and laboratory supplies. Projected schedule of
disbutsemenz is shown in Annex tO.
2 2-  n ozder to acilitate disbursements, a special account would be opened at a commercial bank
vf pele        Th .A. Te authorizel allocation amounts to US$300,000 and covers four months of



- 23 -
eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an amount of US$150,000 representing 50 percent of the
initial deposit will be deposited to the special account. The remaining balance will be made available
as needed. The special account would be used for all payments below US$30,000. Replenishments
would be submitted monthly. All replenishment requests will be fully documented except for (a)
contracts for goods and works of less than US$100,000 equivalent, (b) contracts for services of less
than US$50,000 equivalent, and (c) operating costs which would be claimed on the basis of statements
of expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation would be retained for review by visiting
supervision missions and the external auditors. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Borrower shall establish, in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, a Special Account, in U.S.
dollars, to cover eligible expenditures under the IDA credit, and maintain this Special Account
throughout the project's implementation period (para. 5.2 (g)).
I. Environmental Impact
2.28 The environmental category is "B". The overall impact of the project would be positive. The
stock assessment, management plan, improved legal and regulatory frameworks, and the strengthened
capacity of Government institutions to enforce fishing laws and regulations would all be designed to
promote sustainability of the fisheries resources. The project would promote environmentally sound
management of the fisheries resources by communities. Use of explosives and poisons in fishing
would be prohibited, and severe penalties would be imposed on those who violate the law. The
extension program would include training on the harmful effects of using explosives and poisons, the
potential dangers of discarding fishing gear in the waters, the impact on fishing of oil spills and the
need to avoid spilling lubricants and gasoline while fishing, the importance of timely reporting to the
appropriate authorities of accidental oil spills, the importance of avoiding the dumping in the ocean of
human waste in the fishing villages, and other environmentally sensitive matters. Care would be
taken not to introduce exotic fish and pathogens that could be carriers of communicable diseases, and
to avoid the proliferation of aquatic weeds.
M. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization
3.1 The project would be managed by the DOF, which would assign some activities to the
appropriate government agencies while maintaining the overall project management authority; cost of
processing tender documents, including the purchase of a computer and printer, has been included
under the funding for the strengthening of DOF. The headquarters of the DOF would be in Accra.
An organigram for project management is shown in Annex 11.
3.2   The Marine Fisheries Management Division of DOF would be responsible for undertaking the
stock assessment and preparing the management plans for the marine fisheries; and Inland Fisheries
Management Division would undertake the census of fishing activities and related studies of the Volta
Lake, and for implementing the aquaculture pilot program. The Administration and Operations
Division would be responsible for collating project operational plans and progress reports, managing
disbursement of the IDA credit, maintaining project accounts and records of expenditures, keeping
records of fishermen, collecting and managing the various fisheries levies, and arranging audits. The
new MCS Division would ensure compliance with fisheries regulations established for management
purposes. It would also help enforce safety-at-sea regulations and assist in search and rescue
operations. Enforcement would emphasize persuasion, with legal recourse as a last option. MCS



- 24 -
directed towards the industrial fleet would involve periodic inspections of catch and gear on board,
and statistics collection through log-book and catch inspections.
3.3   All procurement would be assigned to an existing Project Coordination Unit of MOFA, which
has had sufficient experience under previous IDA-funded agricultural projects. All project-related
training would be prepared and implemented in collaboration with the Manpower and Training
Department of the MOFA, and the Policy, Planning, Monitoring, and Evaluation Department
(PPMED) of the ministry would monitor and evaluate the project's implementation performance, and
would assist the DOF in undertaking special socio-economic studies, if needed. The front-line
fisheries extension activities would be assigned to the ministry's Department of Extension, with the
DOF providing the SMSs.
3.4   The FC would serve as an advisory board (steering committee). The Commission would
provide broad policy guidelines, ensure the incorporation of the various interest groups in the
preparation of fisheries management plans, advise on enforcement of fisheries laws and regulations,
and oversee project progress. The Commission would meet as often as needed to review project
activities, with the Director of the Fisheries Department acting as the secretary.
B. Implementation Schedule
3.5   The implementation period would be five years, starting in 1996. The first year of the project
would be devoted to the reorganization of the DOF; training of staff; processing of ICB and LCB
tender documents for goods and works; procurement of supplies and equipment that would not be
subject to ICB or LCB procedures; hiring of consultants; initiation of the stock assessment, MCS, and
aquaculture programs; and preparation of a detailed operational plan for the coming year. The second
year would be devoted to continuation of the stock assessment, MCS, and aquaculture and training
programs, completion of rehabilitation of buildings, and completion of the procurement of vehicles
and equipment. Firm fisheries management systems would be put in place, and all fishing vessels
would be registered and licensed by the end of the second year. During the last two years, the
demersal stocks should begin to recover and a special project impact assessment would be made on
this; the DOF should prove to be a more effective fisheries resources management agency and a
special impact assessment would be made to confirm this; good feedback should be available to assess
the potential for further expansion of aquaculture; and the project's overall impact should be evaluated
and the lessons used to prepare subsequent development programs for the sub-sector.
C. ProgIress Reporting. M1onitoring, and Evaluation
3.6   The Department of Fisheries would prepare regularly operational plans for routine work and
management plans for the fisheries. The operational plan would initially be concerned with the
reorganization of the Department, assignment of staff, preparation of training programs, redrafting of
the fisheries legislation, and procurement of goods and services, initiation of stock assessment and
preparation of management plans, initiation of the pilot aquaculture program, and initiation of the
NICS activities.
3.7   The DOF would prepare regular progress reports on the project; the format and content were
reviewed during negotiations. The PPMIED would mnonitor overall project implementation, and
,!repare a completi:n report on the program focussing on the program's impact and lessons learned.
The DOF and PPIMED would use the project's key indicators shown in Annex 13 to monitor the
project's performance, and the progress reports would include a table showing comparison of targets



- 25 -
against actual performance for selected key indicators. Detailed implementation arrangements and
timetables for each project component, as well as terms of reference for consultants, are set out In the
Project Implementation Manual. The two departments would collaborate In preparing the project's
completion report, and a possible follow-up project. Adoption by the Borrower of a Project
Implementation Plan acceptable to IDA shall be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
credit (para. 5.1 (d)). Assurances were obtained that the Borrower shall: (a) submit to IDA at the end
of each semester of the calendar year a progress report on the implementation of the project in a
format acceptable to IDA, (b) organize and carry out, not later than October 31 of each calendar year
a joint review meeting for the Borrower and IDA. At each annual review meeting, the Borrower
shall present an action program for the implementation of the project during the coming fiscal year to
IDA for appraisal, and (c) thereafter implement such action program for the fiscal year in question
(para. 5.2 (h)).
D. Prolect Supervision
3.8  IDA would continue to help the Department of Fisheries during subsequent phases of the
project cycle. The initial phase of implementation is expected to be the most difficult, and IDA's
implementation assistance would be the most intense at that stage. IDA would mount the first official
supervision mission after the credit becomes effective, to launch the project's implementation.
Subsequent missions would take place every six months with the interval decreasing gradually. The
supervision plan is in Annex 12.
3.9   At the beginning of the third year, there would be a Mid-Term Review (MTR) to take stock
of: implementation performance and assess bottlenecks; review the impact of the fisheries
management plans that would have been in effect for about one year by then; effect of naval patrols
on preventing intrusive fishing by unauthorized foreign vessels; performance of the DOF in the
collection and use of fisheries statistics, and its effectiveness in coastal and land-based patrols; effects
of improved management plans on the regeneration of particularly the marine demersal stocks;
effectiveness of the pilot aquaculture program and its potential for further expansion; impact of the
institutional strengthening program in improving effectiveness of the DOF; usefulness of the steering
committee in project implementation, and its role in subsequent phases; and effectiveness of
participatory extension (use of traditional leadership in fishing villages) in improving the management
of the fisheries resources. The DOF's progress reports and IDA's supervision reports would be used
in the MTR. Assurances were obtained that the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31,
1997, carry out jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the project covering, inter aYia, the above
topics, (b) in order to facilitate the MTR, prepare and submit to IDA, not later than sixty days before
the scheduled date of the MTR, a report on project activities in such scope and in such detail as IDA
shall have reasonably requested, and (c) not later than two weeks after the mid-term review, prepare
an action program, acceptable to IDA, to deal with deficiencies in project and program
implementation identified during the review and shall thereafter implement such action program (para.
5.2 (i)).
E. Technical Assistance and Training
3.10 Since this Is a capacity-building project, technical assistance and training would be important,
with the former accounting for about 5 percent and the latter 15 percent of the total cost of the
project. At the request of the DOF, 38 person-months of internationally recruited consultants have
been included. These include specialists In fisheries management, MCS, stock assessment in lake
fisheries, and aquaculture; only short-term international consultants would be used to the extent



- 26 -
feasible; there are no qualified professionals locally who can undertake these activities. The
consultants will at all times be working with local counterparts who will receive on-the-job training in
the process. In addition, 65 person-months of accountants to be recruited locally on contract-basis
have been included because there are severe shortages of accountants in the country, the competition
from the private sector for the few available professional accountants is stiff, and it would not be
possible to recruit staff on standard public services compensation package. The terms of reference of
the consultants would include training of counterpart staff.
3.11 Most of the training is expected to be undertaken locally and in other developing countries.
That way, large numbers of staff would be trained for extended periods at lower unit costs. In the
exceptional case of external training, preference would be given to training in developing economies
with similar circumstances to Ghana, international agencies that specialize in fisheries resource
management, and study tours in countries with relevant experiences.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.12 The Administration Division of the DOF would maintain a separate project account. The
project account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the audits would include
all statements of expenditures. Assurances were obtained that the Borrower shall submit audited
project accounts, Special and Project Accounts, fisheries levies to be collected by the DOF, and
statements of expenditures, audited and certified by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, annually
within six months after the close of the Government's fiscal year (para. 5.2 (j)).
3.13 With the concurrence of the Ministry of Finance, the DOF would have the overall management
responsibility for collecting fisheries levies on behalf of the Internal Revenue Service. The vessel
registration process is an important step in the setting up of a reliable data base for assessment of the
levies. The DOF would fully involve the fishers and their associations in the identification,
registration, licensing, and collection of levies. Some retention scheme may be devised whereby a
portion of the revenue is used to improve services to fishers, thus increasing the acceptance and
ownership of the project by the beneficiaries, including the taxation elements. *Role of associations in
promoting acceptance of levies on individual members and their effective collection have been
successfully demonstrated, such as in the case of transport where the Ghana Private Road Transport
Users Association, a federated body of several transport unions with thousands of members, collects
transported-related tax on behalf of the Internal Revenue Service and monitors compliance.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS. AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Benefits
4.1   Economic Benefits. The main benefit of the project would be a major improvement in the
management of the fisheries resources, which would lead to recovery of the fish stock. This, in turn,
would allow for a sustainable increase of between 15,000 and 33,000 tons per year in the production
of fish from the marine and inland fisheries (the lower figure, which is used for computing the Net
Present Value or NPV and Economic Rate of Return or ERR, is an estimate based on a recovery of
only the demersal fishery, and the higher figure includes estimates of recovery for all fisheries); the
long term bi6logical conservation, protection and sustainability of the resource (alternatively expressed
as the prevention of declines or collapses in fisheries production that would occur in the absence of an
appropriate and effective fisheries management regime); the improvement of the economic efficiency,



- 27 -
performance and profitability of the participants in the fishery; improvement of the institutional and
policy frameworks for sustainable development of the sub-sector; and increased contribution of the
sub-sector to public revenues.
4.2   The NPV, based on only the recovery of the demersal fishery and using a discount rate of 12
percent, is estimated at US$28.1 million. The NPV would be US$80.0 million if the benefits include
the recovery from all fisheries. The ERR, based on only the recovery of the demersal stock, is
computed at 44.8 percent. Details are in Annex 14.
4.3   Fiscal Benefits. To-date, the contribution of the fisheries sub-sector to fiscal revenue has been
marginal. The project would transfer some of the incremental private financial benefits to the public
sector through registration and licensing of vessels, increased levies, and improved collection effort.
The collections from the domestic catches are projected to increase from the current level of about
US$20,000 per year in the form of license fees to US$0.5 million in 1998 to a level of USS 0.8
million in the year 2000, mainly in the form of royalty payments. The net present value of the
incremental fiscal benefits, discounted @12 percent over the assumed life of the project amount to
US$1.2 million for the most conservative scenario (i.e. recovery of only the demersal fishery and no
increase in the levy beyond one percent of the gross landed value of catch).
B. Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
4.4   The main risks are financial (shortage of counterpart funds, a general public finance problem
that affects all the agricultural portfolio), institutional (the DOF is weak relative to the task at hand
and although the project directly addresses this issue, changes in management and administrative
processes and culture may not occur at the pace assumed), and biological (the actual recovery of the
fishery resources could be adversely affected by unforeseen environmental factors, such as
upwellirig).
4.5   On project finance, Govermnent has indicated that the shortage of counterpart funds is a short-
termn problem, that it in no way implies the sector's low priority in the public investment program,
that it does not expect the problem to continue, and that it intends to allocate the necessary
counterpart resources in the coming budgets. In any event, the project would also generate additionai
public revenue, depending on the level and timing of the recovery of the fisheries, some of which
could be used to finance the public expenditures in the sub-sector. Rectification of the institutional
capacity weaknesses is a major component of the project and many of the actions needed to strengthen
capacity of the DOF will be implemented up-front. Most of the training and technical assistance and
other institution building activities are also front-loaded. During implementation, IDA and the
Borrower would conduct detailed annual reviews of implementation, where the focus would be
advance identification of problems and solutions, including institutional capacity and counterpart
funding. The biological risks would be minimized through the environmental quality-enhancement
aspects of the project's design. The protection of spawning grounds from fishing, enforcement of
mesh and gear standards and banning the use of traps and explosives in fishing, are designed to
protect juveniles, and to enhance recruitment in the various fisheries and recovery of the fish biomass.
4.6  If the biological, financial and institutional risks materialized to adversely affect the project, in-
spite of the mitigating features In the project design discussed above, they would delay and weaken
the strength of the recovery of the fish stocks in the various fisheries. The sensitivity analysis is
based on the probable impact of the risks to the project in their order of significance and their
likelihood to materialize. To assess the sensitivity of the project results to the biological, financial



- 28 -
and institutional risks, the following changes were made: volume estimates were reduced by 25
percent, and the benefits were assumed not to commence until year six.
4.7   A weaker than expected recovery, reflected in a 25 percent reduction in fish biomass at full
recovery, would reduce the NPV of the project for the base case to $18.6 million and the ERR to
36.9 percent. Deferring the commencement of benefits from year four to year six would reduce the
NPV to $17.2 million and the ERR to 29.8 percent.
4.8   The sensitivity of the net benefit stream to a possible softening of markets and prices was
assessed by reducing prices 20 percent. This reduces the NPV to $20.5 million and the ERR to 38.6
percent for the base case (dermesal fishery). A combined reduction in volumes, delay in
commencement of benefits and reduction in real prices by 20 percent would yield NPV of $10.3
million and ERR of 25.3 percent.
C. Sustainabilit,
4.9   The project is sustainable. It would strengthen the institutional, policy, legal, and regulatory
frameworks in order to establish the long-term sustainability of the fisheries resource and thereby
maximize the sub-sector's contribution to the economy. Fisheries management plans would be
prepared and implemented, there would be provisions in the revised fisheries law and regulations to
enforce compliance with the management plans, communities would be encouraged to participate in
the management of the resources through their traditional leadership and associations of fishers, and a
strong monitoring, control, and surveillance system would be put in place to enforce compliance with
the law.
4.10 The project would be the first comprehensive public investment in the sub-sector, although the
investment is quite modest when compared with investments in recent projects in other sub-sectors.
Nevertheless, it would increase the public expenditures in the sub-sector by US$0.7 million per year,
which would be sufficient to sustain it. The institutional and policy reforms would form the
foundation for private investment in the sub-sector for many years to come.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Conditions of effectiveness shall be:
(a)    assignment by the Borrower of the following key professional staff to the DOF on
terms and conditions which shall be acceptable to IDA at all times: eleven MCS
personnel, two economists, two sociologists, and at least one accountant (para. 2. 11);
(b)    establishment by the Borrower in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA of a Project
Account with an initial deposit of US$100,000 equivalent in local currency to cover
eounterpart expenditures (para. 2.21);
(c)    finalization of tender documents for the procurement of vehicles and equipment under
iCB, and of arrangement fo. the rehabilitation of a research vessel (para. 2.24); and



- 29 -
(d)    adoption by the Borrower of a Project Implementation Plan acceptable to IDA (para.
3.7).
5.2   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower shall:
(a)    not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and submit to IDA, for its review
and comment, an annual training program covering the period twelve months
commencing on the following January 1, and (b) make such revisions to such training
program as may be appropriate, and except as IDA shall otherwise agree, carry out the
training programs on the basis of such annual training programs (para. 2. 11);
(b)    submit to Parliament a revised fisheries legislation that shall be acceptable to IDA not
later than June 30, 1996 (para. 2.11);
(c)    remove from inside the 30 meter depth line all trawlers in excess of 50 gross
registered tonnage not later than June 30, 1996 (para. 2.14));
(d)    complete the registration of the canoe fleet not later than December 31, 1996 (para.
2.14);
(e)    (i) ensure that levies on all vessels other than the canoe fleet have been increased to the
equivalent of one percent of the gross landed value of catch by not later than June 30,
1997, (ii) by June 30, 1998 review the experience with the initial increase including,
inter   , the adequacy of the levies and their impact on the industry, (iii) furnish the
recommendations of said review to MDA for review and comments, and (iv) implement
said recommendations taking into account IDA's comments (para. 2.14);
(f)    submit to IDA not later than December 31, 1996 a strategy for implementing
appropriate fisheries management plans (para. 2.14);
(g)    establish in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA a Special Account, in U.S. dollars,
to cover eligible expenditures under the IDA credit, and maintain the Special Account
throughout the project's implementation (para. 2.27);
(h)    submit to IDA at the end of each semester of the calendar year a progress report on
the implementation of the project in a format acceptable to IDA; organize and carry
out, not later than October 31 of each calendar year a joint review meeting of the
Borrower and IDA; at each annual review meeting, present an action program for the
implementation of the project during the coming fiscal year to IDA for appraisal; and
thereafter implement such action program for the fiscal year in question (para. 3.7);
(i)    (i) not later than December 31, 1997, carry out jointly with IDA, a mid-term review
of the project, incorporating assessment of: implementation performance and
bottlenecks; progress In procurement, construction, and training of staff; effectiveness
of extension program in promoting aquaculture; implementation of stock assessment,
fisheries management plans, and the MCS component of the project; extent of
participation of beneficiaries in project implementation; and the timeliness and
adequacy of counterpart funds, (ii) in order to facilitate the MTR, prepare and submit
to IDA, not later than sixty days before the scheduled date of the MTR, a report on



- 30 -
project activities in such scope and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably
requested, and (iii) not later than two weeks after the mid-term review, prepare an
action program, acceptable to IDA, to deal with deficiencies in project and program
implementation identified during the review and shall thereafter implement such action
program (para. 3.9); and
01)    submit to IDA audited reports on project accounts, the Special and Project Accounts,
and statements of expenditures, fisheries levies to be collected by the DOF, audited
and certified by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, annually within six months of
the close of the Government's fiscal year (para. 3.12).
5.3   Agreements having been reached on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$9 million to the Republic of Ghana on standard terms.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECrOR CAPACITY BUILDING
Staffing of the Department of FisheTies
Item                   Headquarters                                                Branches                                                         Total
Marine /                Inland                  MCS                 Regional 1/                     With        Net
Administration            Division               Division               Division            District Offices     Present    Project    Change
Present   W.Project   Present   W.Project   Present   W.Project   Present   W.Project   Present   W.Project
Professional Staff
Director                          I          I           -           -          -                       -                                              1          I           0
Deput Director                    2           1          1           2          1                       I                      -           -           4          5           1
Ast. Director                    2           -           1           -          -           -                                  7          9           10          9          (1)
Economists                        -          -           -           I          -           I                                  -          -            -          2           2
Fisheries Officcrs 2/             1          1           5           5          4           4                                 18          18          28          27          0
Sociologists                      -          -           -                      -           I                                  -           -           -          2           2
Technical Officers 2/            13          13          55         55           -                      -I1                   225        225          293        304          11
Account                           -           I          -           -          -                                  -           -           -           -I
Sub-Total                     19         17          62          64          5          7                      12         250         252         336        357          16
Sup)port
Secretarial/Clerical             14          14          4           4          0           0           0          0          24          24          42          42          0
Drivers                          4           4           2           2          0           0          0           0          13          13          19          19          0
Guards/Janitors/Mcssengers        6          6           12          12         0           0           0          0          63          63          81          81          0
Field Labor                       -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -           -          -
Sub-Total                    24          24          28          28          0          0           0           0         100         100         142         142         0
Total                         43         41          90          92          5          7           0          12         350         352         478        494          16
1/ Includes staff of the Marinc Research and Marine Fisheries Managenent Divisions.
2/ Various graded (Chief Officer, Assistant Chief Officer, Principal Officer, Senior Officer, Senior Assistant Officer, and Assistant Officer).
q
0 



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Training Needs Analysis
Current Professional Staff Profile of DOF and ExDected Tasks
1.    DOF now has a total staff complement of 478, of whom 70 percent are broadly classified as
"professional", and the remaining 30 percent are secretaries, clerks, and laborers.
2.    The "professional" staff are generally categorized into three groups, based on qualification St
entry:
(a)    Professional Staff. The professional staff enter the DOF with a minimum
qualification of B.Sc degree from any of the sciences with preference for the natural
sciences. Their skills are acquired primarily "on the job' and through Ad Iz short-
term external training opportunities offered by donor. This category of staff constitute
the core officer cadre, and are designated Assistant Fisheries Officer upon entry into
service. They now account for nine percent of the total strength of DOF.
(b)    Sub-Professional Staff. These are Fisheries Diploma certificate holders who are
designated Production Officers at the point of entry. Production officers can only
progress to a maximum position of Chief Production Officer. These account for one
percent of the staff complement.
(c)    Technical Ofcers. At the lower level of the professional staff are the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) and Middle School Certificate holders who
are initially appointed as Technical Officer Grade 1. Their main assignment is to
assist higher level staff in the collection of fisheries statistics. The staff account for
about 60 percent of the staff complement.
xpecttj Job Descriptions of the Professional Staff
3.    The expected tasks of the professional staff are summarized below:
:a)    Protessional and Sub-Professional. These are expected to be in charge of planning,
mari -.esnent, training, supervision, policy formulation and monitoring of all activities
in the frsheries sLb-sector. Specifically, they would:
(i   -ovi fde professional leadership for the sustainable development of marine and
*r3an& fisheries by, ir!te r AX, preparing and managing the implementation of
-rl i;n,ment systems for marine and inland fisheries,



- 33 -
ANNEX 2Z
Page 2 of S
(ii)  undertake stock and catch assessment, and supervise the collection of other data
to be used for,  jjjj, for management decision making,
(iii) prepare development strategies and policies relating to the sub-sector, and liaise
with other public and private agencies on all matters affecting fisheries,
(iv) act as SMSs in fisheries, and where deemed appropriate extend to users modern
methods of fishing, preservation, and marketing of fish,
(v)  undertake oceanographic and biological studies, including environmental studies
as they relate to fish production in marine and inland waters, and
(vi) interpret and enforce the provisions of the fisheries laws and regulations.
(b)    Technical Officers. The bulk of these would be deployed along the coast and the
Volta Lake to implement development programs. They would mobilize the fishers
into groups and ensure group participation in the formulation of the management plans
in the implementation of those plans. They would educate the fishing communities on
the need for conservation, and promote community management of the fisheries
resources.
Training Needs
4.    The staff of DOF do not now have the right orientation to perform their increasingly
complicated and difficult tasks. In particular:
(a)    The pre-service training is more geared towards fisheries science than resource
management. None of the professional officers has formal training in fisheries
management, economics, fisheries technology, fisheries policy, and on the practical
aspects of fish production and marketing before entering the service. The pre-service
training is often technical and theoretical, and aims primarily at producing scientists
rather than resource management specialists. The linkage between training institutions
and DOF so far as curriculum development is weak.
(b)    There is a disproportionally higher number of technical staff who do not have adequato
professional training, compared to the professional staff,
(c)    DOF lacks a coherent staff development program. It does not spell out job description
for its officers upon engagement, and the officers acquire their skills througb practical
on-the-job experience. Great effort needs to be made
to re-orient their activities, build sense of professional respect for the officors by tbe
beneficiaries, and mutual trust between the professionals and t  fishen.
'4d    DOF has not been able to institutionalize in-service training programs to keep up with
m  technoloSies in management of fisherios resources.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5
(e)    DOF lacks the capacity in key areas related to environmental aspects as well as
fisheries economics in order to prepare and implement a holistic fisheries management
plan.
Training Institutions
5.    Pre-service training of the professional and sub-professional staff is provided at three local
universities: University of Ghana at Lagon, University of Cape Coast, and University of Science at
Kumasi. In addition, a Regional Maritime Academy provides special training in boat safety,
engineering, and navigation.
6.    The primary objectives of the faculties of sciences are to provide academic training in the
sciences (physics, mathematics, chemistry, zoology, botany and biological sciences). The current
crop of fisheries officers are the products of the departments of Zoology, Fisheries and
Oceanography, and Biological Sciences.
7.    The curriculum in all the universities are fairly similar, and they focus on marine and fresh
water biology at both graduate and post graduate levels. However, the University of Science and
Technology (through its Institute of Renewable Natural Resources) has a much broader syllabus
covering such areas as watershed management, business management and administration for natural
resource managers, fisheries management, and fisheries economics.
8.    The universities do not have adequately trained staff to teach courses that are relevant for the
management of fisheries resources. The science teachers would need to be complemented with
faculty that specialize in the economics and management of fisheries resources. The current science
teaching staff include the following:
Number by Degrees  _
University    Pb.D      M.Sc.      B. SC.     Total
Leg-on            1        3          --4
Cape Coast      4                                4
Kumasi                     2          1          3
The teaching staff of the Regional Maritime Academy include 3 professional navigators and 1
engineer.
9.    The universities and Regional Maritime Academy are not adequately financed to maintain and
gradually expand their facilities in support of their educational activities. The facilities lack books,
teaching aids, laboratory equipment, etc. A major investment would have to be undertaken to
improve the facilities in order to build the local capacity for training.



- 35-
ANNEX2
Page 4 of 5
Proposed Training Program
10.   The first priority over the short-run (the first year) would focus on reorientation training ou
new approaches in the management of the fisheries resources, and crash courses in technical areas that
would be relevant for activities to be undertaken under the project. That would be supplemented with
study tours by managers to international fisheries research institutions and countries that have
successful fisheries development program. The orientation training would focus on the rationale of
the project, the role and responsibilities of the re-organized DOF, and on the revised fisheries law and
regulations. The content, participants, and cost of this short-term training program would include the
following:
Phrici___         (days)           (US$)
Orientation Training for:
Policy Makers & DOF                                            35,000
Professionals                 200               3              10,000
Fishers 3/                   30,000             1
120,000 b/
Technical Training in:           60                15
Fisheries Mgmt.
Fisheries Economics
Aquaculture
Stock Auessment
Fisheries Law
MCS
Computers
Study Tours for:
Professionals                  10               1S            100,000
11. The orientation and special technical training, as well as the study tours would continue at least
mid-way through the project implementation period, but the areas of training, countries to be visited,
and the trainees would be selected by the project management in line with the needs of the sub-sOctor
and more systematic and comprehensive training programs that would be developod by DOP in
consultation with the Manpower Training Division of MOFA. Over the long-term, the caliber of
staff, particularly the sub-professional and
Rlale at five locatio. eac in Waserm Cral d iSrtwr Acon ReSion; uas eves lcation is Veolt ReSgine.
IV    khdiqS $30,000 for raia  10 peop ian Nipr fr ow mona ech in aqcuhm.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of S
technical staff would need to be upgraded, preferably at one of the local training institutions. That
way, the capacity of the local training institutions would be simultaneously improved, and more
trainees would be trained at a lower cost than sending them aborad. This may
require upgrading the training institutions by providing essential equipment, improving facilities, and
building the foundation for sustaining the training program focusing on training of the trainers in
Fisheries Economics, Fish Feeds and Feeding, Environmental Science, and
Chemical and Physical Oceanography, Limnology, and Fisheries Management. The long-term
capacity building institutions would need to be developed in consultation with the Ministries of
Education and Food and Agriculture, and in a manner that would be consistent with the tertiary
education development strategy of the country. Support will be provided only if the institutions
would be willing to revise their curricula to reflect the needs of sub-sector and fishing industry.



- 37-
ANNEX3
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Fisheries Management Plan and MCS
A. Fisheries Management Plan
Inroduction
1.   In this section, the current fisheries management problems are reviewed and recommendations
are made concerning appropriate short term and long term planning measures. The fisheries
management plans will essentially be the blueprint for the effective management of the fisheries
resources, to be implemented through the provisions of the Fisheries Law, extension activities, and an
effective Monitoring, Control and Surveillance System backed up by a Judicial system to deal with
breaches of the Law. The planning process must address the biological Issues as well as the issues of
over-fishing, over-capitalization, the impact of technological change, the effect of effort diversion,
and the overall economic and social impacts and consequences of introducing management measures
into a fishery.
2.   The essential element is to establish a planning framework, develop consistent objectives,
introduce only those measures necessary to the achievement of the objectives, monitor and evaluate
the effectiveness of the measures and adjust them over time to ensure that the objectivs are met.
The Management Problem
3.   The current approach to fisheries management in Ghana is embodied in the existing provisions
of the Fisheries Law 1991. While certain prescriptions and provisions are codified in the Law, they
do not provide a system to manage the fishery resources for either their long term sustainability or to
promote the economic efficiency of the harvesting, processing or marketing. The Law provides for
the banning of certain types of fishing in certain areas, the setting of minimum mesh sizes, the use of
closed or limited seasons in specific areas, controlling the types of nets that may be imported or
manufactured, controlling the use of "unauthorized contrivances' for fishing, protection of juvenile
and gravid crustaceans, and licensing of fishing vessels. These provisions form the basis of the
management" of Ghana's fisheries resources; and when coupled with the MCS and penalty
provisions of the Law, make up the fisheries management regime.
4.   The degree of exploitation of Ghana's fisheries varies from species to species and fishery to
fishery. The artisanal fishery, which is based around the anchovy and sardinella fishery is fully
exploited with a large number of canoes operating to catch the resource available. The nature of this
resource is such that it is susceptible to fluctuations more in response to environmental factors than to
fishing effort. However, such biological protection from over-fishing cannot be relied upon solely. It
is possible to over-fish these resources, especially if fishing effort continually expands through new
participants entering or through the introduction of new technologies, and through the use of fishing
methods and practices that increase the catches of juveniles. The issues to be addressed relate to die
number of fishers in this fishery and the fishing techniques and practices usod. AU she canos I is
fishery should be registered and licensed. This will improve the infbrmation base ad lay the



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
foundation for some future revenue contribution from this fishery. It is recommended that
management measures be implemented to control the types of gear (net and mesh size particularly), to
control the beach seine fishery and to limit the numbers of canoes in the future. The latter measure
will need to be finally determined after a clearer picture of the current situation is established. In the
longer term, some form of more direct 'community involvement" in the management of this sector is
recommended.
5.    The inshore fishery operates with small in-board powered vessels catching demersal species
relatively close to shore on the continental shelf. Much of the current problem in this fishery has
arisen as a result of the incursion of very large deep-water trawlers that began fishing in Ghana
following their exclusion from other EEZs. This has produced conflict between the two parts of the
sector, and has dramatically increased the pressure on the demersal resources. There is also some
evidence of damage to the fishing grounds from the larger heavier gear used by these vessels. It is
recommended that in the first instance the larger vessels should be restricted to fishing outside the 30
meter depth line, that their catches be carefully monitored to ensure that they do not place excessive
pressure on either the demersal stocks in this area or the other species they are likely to diversify
into, (until the monitoring system is fully functional there should be a moratorium on any new
licenses or permits), and that consideration be given in this monitoring to the possibility that in the
longer term some form of property rights management might be an appropriate approach.
6.    The tuna fishery is capable of significant expansion and this should be allowed to take place in
response to market signals. An inhibiting factor in the expansion of this fishery is the restriction in
the Law concerning the minimum age of vessels. This restriction should be removed, and the
decision on the type and age of vessel to be used should be left to the private sector. It is
recommended that the management system incorporate an effective catch monitoring and recording
system to allow the fishery to be monitored and evaluated to ensure that the resource does not become
over-fished or over-capitalised and that some form of property rights management be considered in
the future.
7.    The inland fishery is in many respects the parallel of the artisanal marine fishery.
Accordingly, the solutions are also similar. Management measures are required that; ban the use of
small mesh nets, ban nets that damage the resource, and allow the management authority to outlaw
fishing techniques and practices that damage the inland fishery environment or threaten recruitment
into the fishery by increasing the catches of spawning and juvenile fish. There may also be a need
for some limitation to be placed on the total number of fishers in this fishery at some future time. In
the longer term a significant degree of 'self-management" by the fishing communities of the inland
fishery resources should be promoted.
The Management Function
8.    The management function will focus on the two principal fisheries: the marine fishery and the
Inland fishery. It will be important, however, to carefully consider the inter-relationships between the
two parts of the sector when management plans are being prepared. The two fisheries are not
mutually exclusive. There is significant interchange between them, with fishers moving relativdy
freely between the Inland water system and the Marine enviromnent and vice versa. This presents
particular problems in relation to control mechanisms that may be designed specifically to limit or



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
reduce effort in one or both of these fisheries. It also raises questions concerning the types of gear,
fishing practices and fishing technologies used in each fishery and the consequences of possibly
inconsistent or even contradictory management measures.
9.    The proposed revised and redrafted Fisheries Law (which will incorporate in some way the
effective provisions of the current Law) will provide the legal structure and framework for the
fisheries management plans and for the fisheries management planning process. The "draft" Law
proposes that a fisheries management plan be prepared for each fishery (defined either as a single or a
multi-species, multi-method fishery) and that each plan shall: (a) identify the fishery resource and its
characteristics, including its economic and social value and interrelationship with other species in the
eco-system, (b) assess the present state of exploitation of the fishery resource and potential average
annual yields, (c) specify the objectives to be achieved in the management and development of the
fishery, (d) taking into account the best information on all relevant biological, social, economic and
other applicable factors, determine the maximum sustainable yields, (e) (i) taking into account
information described in the preceding subparagraphs, determine a total allowable catch for each
fishery or such other conservation and management measures as may be appropriate, (ii) where there
is insufficient information and advice, identify a plan for determining such information and take
appropriate conservation and management measures, (f) specify the measures, if any, to be taken to
promote the development of local fisheries, (g) determine the amount of the fishery resource, if any,
to be made available to licensed foreign fishing vessels;
(h) specify the conservation and management measures to be enforced to protect the fishery resource
from over-exploitation, (i) specify the research necessary to enhance management of the fishery, (j)
specify the information and other data required to be given or reported for effective management and
development, and (k) take into account any relevant traditional fishing methods or principles. The
Law will also include provisions for appropriate consultation and for prescribing regulations to
implement the plan.
Consultation
10.   While the ultimate responsibility for the establishment of those parameters that protect the
sustainability of the resource, and for the prescription of the management plans correctly remains with
the Minister of MOFA and the DOF, the plans must be prepared with the fullest participation of the
fishers and the relevant parts of each sector of the industry. The consultation with, and involvement
of, the fishing industry is an essential prerequisite for the successful introduction of any fisheries
management plan. The importance of "ownership" of the Plan cannot be overemphasized. While
consensus may not always be possible the process of consultation is critical. Without involvement the
participants will not accept "ownership" and responsibility for the plan and the overall FMR. This in
turn will significantly impede its development and implementation; but more importantly it will
reduce the level of compliance with its provisions.
Next Steps
11.   The first step to introducing a degree of effective management through the development of
fisheries management plans is to take some immediate actions to contr3l fishing effort and fishing
activities and to improve the information available to the managers. The second element is the



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 9
establishment of a formalized planning process and the preparation of regularly reviewed and revised
plans to be followed over the period of the project and beyond. These two steps must be taken
concurrently.
12.  In the first instance, the key provisions of the existing Law (either within that Law or within
the revised Law) be enforced as an interim measure. This will allow for some effective control on
fishing activities and fishing effort while comprehensive, coherent and consistent fisheries
management plans are prepared. The following should be used as a guide to the preparation of
interim plans for the management of the marine and inland fisheries: (a) adopt as a policy objective
the principal of managing fisheries for the maximization of the economic benefit but within the
constraint of their long term sustainability, (b) establish 'provisional" Total Allowable Catches (TAC)
for the major commercial fisheries, (c) implement and enforce the provisions of the Fisheries Law
that relate to: (i) the exclusion of the large trawlers from inside the 30 meter depth contour,(ii)
minimum mesh sizes for nets, (iii)restrictions related to net types, (iv) protection for juvenile,
spawning or gravid fish, (v) banning undesirable fishing practices and techniques ("unauthorized
contrivance" provision of the Law), (v) registering and licensing of all fishing vessels, (d) establish
appropriate formal consultation mechanisms to involve the sector participants in the planning process,
(e) prepare a program of education/extension to inform the fishing sector of the objectives of the
proposed plan, (f) establish monitoring, and review procedures that will enable the effects of the
management measures to be evaluated, (g) establish simple procedures for the variation of existing or
introduction of new management measures, (h) develop and implement the MCS program required to
support the interim plan, (i) develop proposals to consider the economic and social implications of
policy and management changes, and 0) ensure that the scientific stock assessment program supports
the planning process.
13.   The above approach will have the added benefits of allowing the managers to assess the
effectiveness of the range of management measures that have already been codified in the existing
Law (these provisions can be converted to Regulations under the proposed revised Law), and of
allowing the improvement of the information systems and data bases related to the scientific,
economic and social aspects of the fishing sector. In the longer term, however, some more clearly
defined goals and objectives must be developed to provide the policy framework within which the
long term management of the fisheries can proceed. These should relate to the economic and social
objectives of managing fisheries, while always ensuring consistency with the biological sustainability
of the resource.
14.  The ultimate aim of the planning process and the longer term objective of the FMPs should be
the introduction of some form of self-management of the appropriate resources within specific
management guidelines, established by the Government, that ensure the sustainability of the resource.
For the artisanal (inland and marine) and inshore fisheries, such "community management" should
involve collective responsibility at the fishing village level, while for the more off-shore demersal,
and other fisheries such as tuna, some form of property rights regime should be developed. A
property rights approach would involve the creation of a system of individual tradeable quotas in the
fishery. The TAC would be divided among the fishers as shares of the TAC based on some agreed
criteria such as historical catch performance, investment, some measure of commitment to the fishery,
or by auction or some other form of sale. These quotas or catch entitlements would then be



-41-
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 9
essentially the private property of the fisher who would be able to catch the amount of the quota or
trade or lease it to another. The quota would be, however, the maximum that could be taken. This
system provides the most effective management of the resource through directly controlling the output
rather than the inputs or effort used to take fish. It also ensures the maximization of the economic
benefits to be derived from a fishery through the elimination of over-capitalization and the
introduction of efficiency as an objective in the management function.
15. The time-frame for developing long term fisheries management plans must be compressed as
much as possible. To be effective the process must be an incremental/adaptive one with the review
and revision process as the key means of building sound fisheries management plans.
B. Monitoring. Control. and Surveillance (MCS)
Status of MCS
16.  Through ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNLOSC),
Ghana has established a Territorial Sea extending 12 nautical miles to seaward of her 535 km length
of coastline, and declared an EEZ extending a further 188 nautical miles. Thus, Ghana may now
exercise fisheries jurisdiction over a sea area of some 68,000 square nautical miles. The monitoring,
control, surveillance and enforcement task in the marine fisheries alone is considerable even though
less than 10 percent of the total EEZ sea area is likely to be fished at any one time.
17. There is no effective management of Ghana's fishery resources, apart from the limited control
on new vessels entering the fishery and the technical conservation measures prescribed in the
Fisheries Law of 1991 and the Fisheries Regulations of 1979. There has been little attempt to achieve
even a measure of compliance with the minimal restraints in force, either by the fishing industry
itself, whose interests the regulations are ultimately designed to protect, or by the MOFA.
18. The demersal stock appears to be in decline, as evidenced by reports of falling catch rates and
the presence of significant proportions of juvenile fish in catches. Uncontrolled fishing by the large
distant water freezer factory trawlers in the shallow waters of the continental shelf is contributing
significantly to the over-exploitation of the demersal stocks remaining in this area. The Fisheries Law
prohibits trawlers over 50 gross tons to fish in depths of less than 30 meters, but the large sten
freezer factory vessels continue to fish both pelagic and demersal stocks throughout the narrow
continental shelf without apparent restraint. Many of the vessels in this fleet are using towed gear in
waters of less than 30 meters depth using illegal nets extensively. Improved prospects in the offshore
tuna fishery may encourage the owners of these vessels to invest in new opportunities and reduce their
presumed economic necessity to fish the coastal waters. Their trawlers are typically past their prime
and book values, and hence could be gradually taken out of fishing service without appreciable capital
losses. Also, efforts now underway to gain access to fishing grounds beyond the EEZ may provide
opportunities for some of these trawlers. Others could be converted to tuna fishing and/or used for
patrols; a small number might be employed as "klondykers" anchored on the coastal grounds where
they could use their processing and freezing plants to handle catches transferred to them by the
inshore boats.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 9
19.   The fishing effort directed at the inshore pelagic stocks by the canoe fleet and inshore purse
seiners has stabilized. However, further entry into this sector should be controlled to avoid problems
in future. Legal provision for doing so through licensing and registration of the number of canoes
already exists in the Fishery Law of 1991, but control of licensing and registration has not been
implemented by the district authorities to whom this task was delegated; canoe registration may also
reduce the difficulties of estimating the level of effort in those areas where there is a tendency for
canoes to move far from their home base and switch gears to meet changing fishing conditions. The
Fisheries Law also prescribes a minimum mesh size of 25 mm for nets used in this fishery, although
there is a general lack of compliance with this regulation which is tolerated by the authorities. The
inshore fleet often violate the prescribed minimum mesh size regulation, and catch the juvenile
demersal stock. Many of the cod ends of the nets have meshes of legal size but the effective size of
these meshes had been seriously reduced below the permitted minimum by the attachment of lifting
bags, top-side chafers, cod-end liners and similar devises. Intensive education would help to promote
self-regulation in the long-term interest of the fishermen themselves.
Reinforcing the MCS System
20.   The Le2al Basis. The legal basis as well as the administrative set up for proper MCS are not
adequate. Part V of the Fisheries Law of 1991 deals with the legal powers necessary
to undertake fisheries law enforcement. However, a laissez fair attitude prevails among the numerous
fishers, all bent on maximizing their catches without regard for conservation or sustainability of the
resources. A clear foundation for the management of the fisheries resources should be established on
a priority basis. This should include revision of the law empowering the DOF to undertake the MCS
function, and establishing the MCS Division within the DOF and assigning adequate staff to it.
21.   Marine Fishery MCS Functions. The MCS Division should be responsible for the direction
and effective conduct of all maritime and land-based marine fisheries MCS operations. Its duties
should be extensive, and should include the enforcement of fisheries legislation, the gathering of
fisheries intelligence, and the maintenance of a centralized statistical base covering the full extent of
industrial and inshore fishing operations. The revised fisheries legislation should grant the MCS
Division the mandate to demand the type, quality, and timing of data submission, and the power to
apply strict sanctions on companies that do not comply with the legal requirements. The Division
should have the capability to check the quality of data submitted by the companies by comparing that
with surveillance information, inspections of catch at sea, detailed spot checks on the weights landed
at the quay-side, analysis of log books, and inspection of fishers' and buyers' books.
22.  In offshore areas, the primary MCS function would be deterring, and where necessary,
apprehending foreign vessels found to be fishing illegally. Other important fisheries inspection duties
would include monitoring operations of licensed domestic and foreign vessels and ensuring
compliance with licensing conditions, particularly those requiring Skippers to maintain fishing
records, fishing effort, and details of the grounds they have fished. Inspectors may also expect to
monitor and control any transhipping operations undertaken by the vessels. All vessels engaged in
MCS patrol duties should at all times be ready to render emergency assistance to vessels in distress or
requiring assistance, including the provision of medical evacuation, technical support, and search and
rescue operations.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 9
23.  It would not be necessary to provide continuous, year-round patrols in offshore waters,
provided arrangements are made for a patrol vessel to react quickly to surveillance reports (e.g. from
licensed fishing vessels operating at sea). Normally, fishing vessels should be inspected at least twice
a year, and be boarded in rotation and not at short intervals so that fishermen do not feel harassed.
The patrol vessel should report details of inspections and current activities to the command and
control center, which in turn will advise and recommend actions to be taken in contingency situations,
where necessary in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
24.  In coastal areas, MCS would be more intensive than in the offshore areas due to the greater
number of vessels and the diversity of fishing gears. In addition to enforcing the implementation of
fisheries management plans, the coastal MCS function should include resolution of conflicts betwoe
vessels which use 'mobile' gear (mainly the industrial and inshore fishermen), and those that use
"static' gear (exclusively canoe fishermen) because of the damage inflicted on the static gear by the
mobile gear; such conflicts have resulted in several deaths in the past.
25.  For land-based patrols, two pick-up trucks would be needed. The trucks should be equipped
with radio, winches and tow bars capable of pulling an inflatable boat on a light trailer.
26. Coastal MCS should focus on public relations leading to dialogue with fishers on the need for
conservation, and on convincing the Chief Fishermen that it would be in their community's long-term
interest to adopt reasonable fishing practices fishing.
27. Inland Fishery MCS Functions. In the inland areas, the MCS priority should be enforcing the
provisions of the Fisheries Law relating to fishing practices and techniques, monitoring trends in the
fishery, collecting limnological data, and identifying problem areas and attempting to solve them with
the cooperation of the fishers through the extension service. Resolution of problems can more
effectively be done through dialogue with and consent of the fishing communities concerned.
28.   Stafflng. The staff of the MCS Division should include Fisheries Inspectors, administrative,
clerical and computer data processing staff. The DOF lacks personnel with the necessary
background, training, and expertise to fill the posts of inspectors, and hence the staff would have to
be recruited. However, before recruiting any additional staff, the Departnent should explore the
possibility of training existing staff and reassigning them to the new unit. Potential sources of now
recruits, should that option be adopted, include surplus Merchant Navy mariners and redundant nval
personnel.
29. Command and Control Center. Day to day fisheries MCS operations could be directed and
coordinated from an operations room normally known as control, command, communications, and
information center. The room would contain a wall chart for plotting current situation reports;
normal office equipment including a photo-copier, a desk top computer with work procoeing &ad
spreadsheet software, and the base station of communications network (satellite communicatiou
equipment should be provided to the field stations as well). Although the majority of industrial
fishing vessels operate on a 24-hour basis, it would not be necossary to staff the conter on twenty-fw
hour basis provided a senior officer is on call during non-office hours equipped with mobilo
telphone.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 9
30.   Technical Assistance. A comprehensive MCS system requiring coordinated efforts of several
agencies, similar to the one proposed above, is difficult to establish and initiate. This is particularly
so in Ghana since there has not been sufficient experience in MCS. Therefore, short-term
consultancies would be needed for setting the system, and initiating its implementation.
Maintaining the MCS System
31.    Once the MCS system is put in place and the initial start up period is passed, implementing
the system is fairly easy and routine, provided adequate funds become available to sustain it. The
ultimate beneficiaries of a well functioning MCS system are those who earn their livelihood from the
industry, and they should make financial contributions to maintain the system. So far, they have not
been contributing much. Their only contribution has been in the form of license fees charged to the
mechanized fleet. The fee, which is computed as a percentage of the value of catch, totalled only
USS 20,000 equivalent in the latest year for which data are available. The data for the most recent
three years are shown below:
Catch Value and Foos Collected
Item              I 
_____________________       million C odis-
Inshore Trawlers
Fees collected        0.6          0.7            1.2
Catch value         3,325.2      5,760.7          n.a.
Demersal Trawlenr
Fees collected        1.7          2.3            2.2
Catch value         12,607.2     11,199.3         n.a.
Shrimp Trawlers
Fees collected        5.0          1.0            0.3
Catch value          753.5        588.2           na. .
Tuna Vessels
Foes collected        8.8          12.2           14.9
Catch value         10.960.4     10.011.8         n.a.
Gand Total
Foes collected        16.2         16.3           18.6
Catch value         27.646.4     28.011.8
In comparison to the above license fees, license fees charged for similar fisheries elsewhere (e.g.
long-liners in the Indian Ocean) is around US$4,000 per calendar month; purse-seiners of 1,500 gross
register tons and over, which fish the seasonal itinerant yellow fin and big-eye, are charged over
US$50,000 per month. Had the Ghanaian vessels been charged similar rates, as much as USS2
million would have been recovered in 1993.



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Pago I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Sghedule of Expenditures
(USS '000)
Total                               1996                              1997
eel                     LO           oIp         Total       LA        Fomin        T          L                     T
Stiviat- m-- -of DOF 
T-Was                                    112.5       112.5      1.625.0      132.5      132.5       265.0      130.0     130.0      260.0
Duildiap                               1,119.2       792.8       1,982.0     859.2      S72.S      1,432.0       _-                   -
U&B                                     10.0           -         1I0.0        .          _                    30.0        -         30.0
Vaicli & Equ_rnin                         10.5        94.5        105.0       10.5       94.5        105.0      6.0        -         60.0
Tuamica Au_hnc                           195.0          -         195.0       39.0                   39.0      39.0        -         39.0
I-1      pu. -EV-                        120.0       100            _.        4 J0       60.0      -0.          20.0     jL          5.
Sub-Taal                            2,507.2     1.879.5      4.357.0    1.051.2      559.5      1,941.0    219.0     160.0       579.0
M^ri Fobi Moas_
Vernal Rebhblio.                      325.0       325.0        650.3      325.0      325.0       650.0        -         -           -
EqWpin_                               41.0       369.0         410.0      41.0      369.0        410.0        -         -           -
Acoustic Suvey                           .        250.0        250.0        -        50.0         50.0        -       50.0        50.0
bmaqm. P1m
Twhsia AiMS                            12.4       113.6        126.0       3.1       21.4         31.5       3.1      28.4        31.5
l          Op. Ex-                       21          364          654.        150        15.0        30.0     44          57.6       15.0
Sub-lol                               667.0     1,423.0      2,090.0      314.1      757.4      1,171.5     71.5     166.0       237.5
Naval PWl                                 180.0      720.0        900.0       36.0      144.0       380.0      36.0    344.0        180.0
Cau  i and PIaSro
Velsb                                  41.5       373.5        415.0      41.5       373.5       415.0        -        -           -
V.Wb    & Equpmmz                       1.5        79.2         51.0       55.0      79.2         15.0        -        -           -
Tuedj  A      lmo.                         5.4        75.6         34.0        6.3       56.7        63.0       2.1      1I.9        21.0
_l         Opw. Eapma                    117.6       104.0        2216        LIJ        IQ2         27.7      ALI      JLU           2f
Sub-TOtl                              356.3     1,352.3      1,705.6      107.3     666.4        773.7      52.8     175.9       25.7
1ane F"benz mammuter
Fmg~AqwAMh D~ Ctr                        120.0        10.0        200.0      120.0       50.0       200.0        -         -           _
F.hi  Ow                                   6.5        51.5         65.0        6.5       55.5        65.0        -         -           _
VWida                                     16.0       144.0        160.0       16.0      144.0        160.0       -         -           _
TSCWk aAin c                              11.9       170.0        119.0        1.4       75.6        14.0       5.2      47.3        5l.5
NOO Suppoet                               10.0        20.0        100.0       16.0        4.0        20.0       16.0      4.0        20.0
kI_ 0W Opw. Ex-                          242.4    _               675.0       46.6       458          24 4        i      45.9
Sub-Total                             533.5       555.2      1,359.0      213.5     407.9        621.4      67.5      97.2       16S.0
TOWl D  uel                            4,064.3     5,510.3       9,574.6    1756.1    1,721.5      4.507.6    411.1      5".1      1,010.2
Coouizcis
Pbyl                                     196.4       130.9        327.3      146.9       97.9       244.5 _
P"noms                           267- 0      331.1        59!.1      44.         64.         10941     -LI
Sub-Totl                              463.4       462.0        925.4      191.4      162.5       353.9      20.6      30.5        51.1
BlAND TOTAL                              ML7 _           _



-46 -
,ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECIOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule of Exgenditures
(USS '000)
1993                             1999                             2000
hm                     Local      Foreign     Total     Local      Foreign     TOW       Local    Fotign        ToW
Stren2theninr of DOF
TrainiSg                                225.0      225.0      450.0      175.0      175.0      350.0      150.0      150.0      300.0
Buildings                               16S.0      110.0      275.0      165.0      110.0      275.0         _    -                -
Ml&E                                     50.0         -        50.0       50.0         -        50.0       50.0         _        50.0
Vsh icb   Equipment                       _     -          -          -          -          -          -          -               -
Technical Asistance                      39.0         -        39.0       39.0         -        39.0       39.0         _        39.0
lncrnnlaI Oper. Expen es                 200        30.Q       S0.0     _2 0          020      .5.         20.0      3.0         So.0
Sub-Toua                             499.0     365.0       364.0      449.0     315.0      764.0       259.0      110.0      439.0
Mann Fiaheries Manweieenn
Stock Asaumewnt
Veual Rsbilitation                     _          _     -          -          -               -          -                     -
Equipment                              _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _
Acoustic Survey                        -        50.0        50.0        -        50.0       50.0         _        50.0        50.0
MAWnq.me  Plan
Technical Assince                      3.1       23.4       31.5        3.1       28.4       31.5                   -          -
Incremental Oper. Expenses               684      --a6        156.0       6.4        37.6      1.0W        611.14     S7.6 1.6.     0
Sub-tol                              71.5       166.0      237.5       71.5      166.0      237.5       61.4      137.6      206.0
kS
Naval Paol                               36.0      144.0      130.9       36.0      144.0      130.9       36.0      144.0      130.0
Coasta & Lake Patro
VemL                                   -    -                -    -    -    -    -                                  -    -
Veols                                  _          _Equipn                                                _  
Ts cical Asetance                                          -          -                -          -               -          -
Inatemwactl Oper. Expense                29.4    _26           5SA        29.4       26.0      S.4A        29.4       26.0       5A.4
Sub-Total                             65.4      170.0      235.4       65.4      170.0      235.4       65.4      170.3      235.4
Inband Fishries Manaeament
Fig.rling/Aquaculturo Demo Ctr                       -          -          -          -          -          -                -
FbidGeSt                                  _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _
Vehicls                                    _         -           -          -         -           - _        _          _
TecniccalAsistanc,                        3.s       23.4       31.5        2.1       11.9       21.0         -          -          -
NOO Suppoit                              16.0        4.0       20.0       16.0        4.0       20.0       16.0        4.0       20.0
INcrM.u l Oper. Expenas               .3   _                 190.        .2    . 1.1           19 0        .2    ...92.0        144.9
Sub-TOtWl                            102.2      139.5      241.7       31.3      114.7      196.0       63.9       96.0      164.9
TOWl B" Cost                            733.1      140.5    1,571.6      667.2      765.7    1,432.9      461.7      5S3.6    1,0453
Physical                                 24.2       16.5       41.2       24.0       16.5       41.2         -         -          -
E4wcwd Pdco hctu                      _LW           77.0      145.5       71.9       *31       153.        6L5S    T7.7        139,
Sub-Totwl                            93.2        93.5      116.1       96.6       97.3      194.4       61.S       77.7      139.2
O XAqD TarAL                             UL3 



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Project Counterpart Funding Requirements
(US$ '000)
Project Component         Total     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Strenethening of DOF
Operation Expenses        40.0       -        -        5.0      5.0      30.0
Civil Works               115.0      85.0     -        15.0    15.0      -
Marine Fisheries Management
Operation Expenses        110.0      -        -        15.0    15.0    80.0
Inland Fisheries Management
Operation Expenses        110.0      -        -        20.0    15.0    75.0
Civil Works               10.0       10.0     -        -        -        -
MCS
Operation Expenses        40.0       -        -        5.0      5.0      30.0
Naval Patrol              1,045.0    195.0   205.0   210.0   215.0   220.0
M&E
Operation Expenses        30.0                         5.0      5.0      20.0
Total                   1,500.0    290.0   205.0   275.0          275.0   455.0



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
Pasg 1 of 1
REPUBUC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule of ICB Procurement
Critical Timing
Item                Purporo      Quantity    Cost       lus=  of         E5xpoto
__(USS'000)  Bid Documnts    Completion
4WD Double Cabin Pick-up   Stock
Ass_asmm!          2          30          Jun/95         Jun/96
MCS                3          So         Jun/9S          Jun/96
Inland Fisheries   10        165          Jun/95         Jun/96
Strengthening
of DOF             5          80          Jun/9S         Jun/96
Vessels (Boats)            MCS                3         425          Jun/9S         Jun/96
Fishing Gar                Stk Assnt. &
bnand Fisheries   Various    19S          Jun/9S         Jun/96
hRdbilitation of Vessl     Stk A _ssment                665          Jun/95 D_c/%
TOM                                        -1 n              __   _  ___1_       _  __  _



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OP GHANA
FISHERIES SIIB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PZOJCI
Schedule of Procurement of EpuiRment & Sugolies through TAPSO
Ciitical Timing
Item                                                      Cost         Bid       Expected
Purpose         Quantity li  (USS'000)  Documents    Delivery
Office & Telecommunication          MCS                      LS           40        Jun/95       Jan/96
Equipment                           Streogthening of DOF     LS           25        Jun/95       Jan/96
Stock Assessment         LS           so        Jun/95       Jan/96
Laboratory Equipment                Stock Assessment       Various        S0        Jun/95       Jan/96
Oceanographic Equipment             Stock Assessment       Various       100        Jun/95       Jan/96
Total                         I325
a/ LS-Lump Sum.



- 50 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule for Rehabilitation & Construction of Buildings
Purpose and Process Timing
Item                        Aquaculture               Institution Strengthening
DOF Branch
Type of Construction                                     Offices and
Fingerling/Aquaculture  Bungalows for      Office Renovation
Location of Building                  Center            Headquarters        at Headquarters
Expected Value of Contracts    235                         1,685                 690
($'000)
1                            32                   2
Expected Number of Contracts
Bid Processing
Jun/95                      Jun/95              Jun/97
- Draft Bidding Document
Jul/95                      Jul/95              Jul/97
- Finalize Bidding Document
Aug/95                     Aug/95               Aug/97
- Issue Bidding Document
Sept/96                    Sept/95              Sept/97
- Close Tender
Oct/96                      Oct/95              Oct/97
- Complete Bid Evaluation
Nov/96                     Nov/95               Nov/97
- Sign Contract
Jan/96                      Jan/96              Jan/98
- Initiate Construction
Dec/96                     Dec/96               Dec/99
- Complete Construction



- 51 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACIrY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule for Recruitment and Use of Consultants
Total          Target                                               Method
Purpose and Expertise     Required         Date for              Months of Service                of
(Person/Months)   Recruitment                                           Selection
_ _ _ _    _    _     _           ~~~~~~~~~~~ r~  r 1 97  1999r          
1-96  19               1999   -            -
Strenetheninf of DOF                                         T
Auditor                      51/           Mar/96        1       1                 1    1       Local
Advert.
Accountant                   601/          Nov/95        12     12       12       12    12
Local
Advert.
Marine Fisheries
Management                   12
Nov/95       3       3       3          3    _
Management Expert
(Economist)                                                                                      LOI
Nov/95       6       2       -         -     _
MCS Specialist                                                                                   LOI
12
Inland Fisheries                           Nov/95        4       3       3         2
Manacement
6            Nov/95        4       2       -          -             LOI
Aquaculture Expert
LOI
Stock Assessment
Expert
T=otal                      I30_                  _            =         19      is      13   _
j1     Loal recuk.



- 52 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Project Disbursement                Profile l/
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester  Semester      Cumulative      Semestr          Cumulative
1996
June 30, 1996                    0.2           0.2             0.5              0.5
1-22
December 31, 1996                0.7           0.9             0.4              0.9
June 30, 1997                    2.5           3.4             0.8              1.7
December 31, 1997                0.9           4.3             0.4              2.1
June 30, 1998                    0.7           5.0             0.7              2.8
1999
December 31, 1998                0.7           5.7             1.2              4.0
June 30, 1999                    0.7           6.4             0.7              4.7
December 31, 1999               0.7            7.1             0.8              5.5
June 30, 2000                    0.6           7.7             1.0              6.5
December 31, 2000                0.6           8.3             0.8              7.3
June 30, 2001                    0.7           9.0             0.7              8.0
December 31, 2001                --             --             0.2              8.2
June 30, 2002                    _                             0.3              8.5
December 31, 2002                                              0.3              8.8
June 30, 2003                                                  0.2              9.0
Baewd on the prorile for the agriculurml sector in the Africs Region.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUrLDING PROJECT
Or2anieram  for Proiect Management
| Fish ris Commnission        1     | Minister for Food
{Ste:rfsj Committee)                      a nd Agriculture
__________________________________                                          Project Coordination  Unit
Deputy Minister In                                      r------------------                of the Ministry of Food
Ch2arge of Fisheries                                                                              end Agricutture
PPMED of the Ministry
of Food                   -           Department 
and Agnculture                           of Fisheries                                                                              Procurement
Manpower and
Training Departnent                                         Training
of thes Minis"r of                             P-          rca
v                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Food and Agricutture
Proiect Monitoring
f7,ndvautionng
Ma 'ne Fisheries                    Inland Fisheries                          MCS                 Administration                      Manne Fbsheries
Research Division                      Division                              Oivision                 Division                      Managemont Division|
 Stock Assesoment                     a Stock Askessment                      o All MCS            a Accounts end Audits          o Propere Management
Functions in                                        Plan
o Marine Environment                   o Aqueculture & Inlend                    Marine & Inland    a Fishing Uaensee
Monitoring                                extension                                                                              o Implement Management
o Personnel Management           Plan
o Fishing Gear                         a Breeder & Foundation
Development                            Fingerling Productlon                                      o Project Operational           o Involve Boeneficiaries in
Plans                          Preparation of Plan
o Biological Studies                   a Biological Studies
in Lakee                                                   a Progress Reports             o Monitor & Evaluate
e General Statistics                                                                                                                 Implementation of
Collection                           a General Statistics                                         a Completion Report               Management Plan
Colection
a Socio-aconomic Studiee                                                                            a Disbursement
in Marine Fisheries                   a Soci-economic Studies
in Inland Fisheries



- 54 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SuRervision Plan
Skill              Staff
Dates             Activities             Requirements           Weeks
July 1995           Project LAunch      Task Manager                    3
Workshop           Fisheries Mgmt. Expert           2
Procurement Specialist          1
January 1996        Supervision         Task Manager                    2
Fisheries Mgmt. Expert          2
Supervision        Task Manager                     2
July 1996                               Fisheries LAw Expert            2
Fisheries Mgmt. Specialist      2
Supervision        Task Manager                     2
November 1996                           Fisheries Mgmt. Specialist      2
Supervision        Task Manager                     2
March 1997                              Sociologist                     2
September 1997      Mid-Term Review    Task Manager                     2
Fisheries Mgmt. Specialist      2
Supervision        Task Manager                     2
Aquaculture Specialist          2
March 1998
Supervision        Task Manager                     2
September 1998                         Fisheries Mgmt. Specialist       2
Supervision        Task Manager                     2
Aquaculture Specialist          2
March 1999
Supervision        Task Manager                     2
Fisheries Mgmt. Specialist      2
September 1999
Project Completion   Task Manager                   2
Review             Fisheries Specialist             2
March 2000                             Fiscal Economist                 2



- 55 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Key Perforrnance Indicators
Expected at
Projeet            1996                  1997                  199S                   1999                  2000
Item                    Unit         Completion    Expected    Actual   Expected    Actual    Expectd       Atual   Expected    Act l    Expocte *d
PROJECT IN PUTS
1. StaffTraining               Person-month    T'MD            TrD                   'MD                   TBD                    TED                   TED
2. Reorganization of DOF       % Completion      100           100 I                                                                                    _
3. Revision of Fisheries Law   % Completion      100           100                                         _
4. Appointmentof Additionml    No.               16            16                                                                 _
DOF Staff
S. Appointent of DOF           No.               6             6
Mu^4en
6. Removel from oontiental     % Removed         100           100
shelf of distant water
trwiers
7. Navy MCS                    No. days          60            60                    60                    60                     60                    60
S. Registmtion of canoe fleets    No.            24.000        24,000                24.000                24,000                 24,000                 24.000
9. Licensing of canoe fleets   No.               24.000        12.000                24.000                24.000                 24.000                 24D000
10. Canoe flees charged        % of Total        TED           TED                   TED                   TBD                    lTD                   TED
licersiag fee
11.Iacrea levies on nor-       % of Catcb        3             3                                           1                      2                     3
cenoe feet
12. Community participation    No. Fusher        150.000       5.000                 15.000                30.000                 100.000                150,000
in Fhebries magement
13. Management Plan Strtegy    % Completion      100           100                                         -
PROJECT FINANCING
14. IDA Credit Disbursed      S000               9.000         200                   3,400                 5.700                  7.100                  1,300
15. CounterpartFunding        S000               1,500         340                   265                   290                    305                   300
PROCUREMEN I/
16. Vehicles & Equipment
4-WD Pick-up                No.               20            20
Vessels                     No.               3             3                      .-.                                                                -
Other Equipment a000                          290           290
17. Civil Works
Fingerling Ctr.
Coetrata                  No.                I             I                     *
Cotract Value              2000             200            65                    100
Buildings
Contract                  No.               34             32                    2
CoetractValue             S'000             2.380          1,685                 695
IS. Con ultuat
Fisharie Management         Perfon-months     12            3                     3                     3                      3
MCS                         Peraon-montd      8             6                     2
Aquaculture                 Peoraon-monthu    12            4                     3                     3                      2
Accountant                  Pemon-months    60              12                    12                    12                     12                     12
Auditor                     Petaonmontt       5                _                     _                                         1



- 56 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERTES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Key Performnance Indicators
_Expected iLt
Project              1996                     1997                     199t                     199                      2000
Itan               Unit        Completion    Expected       ActuWl    Expected       Actai    Expected        Actual    Expected   |Acb           Exp        |  Acal
BENEIMCIARIES 
and BENEFITS
19. FP. Productiu u/
ThA                    *000 ton        51             35                       35                       35                       43                       51
Demesa                 '000 toe         55             42                       42                       42                       47                       55
1l.l-                  '000 ton         45             40                       40                       41                       43                       45
CnuSacea               '000 ton         1.5            1.0                      1.0                      1.0                      1.2                      1.5
Aquwe                  No. Funs        2.000          1,000                    1.00                    I.300                     1.600                    2.000
20. Fwhonrs Levies
(mual)                  S000            770            ..                      250                      500                      650                      770
aI   am lomg-utm aeme sustaibb outputs. c the aw.mption that good naSgecment pleas are applbd.



- 57 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECI
Economic and Financial Analysis
A. Economic Analysis
Linkages Between Project Activities and Expected Benefits
1.   The quantifiable benefits are based on the expected impact of the institutional, management,
legal, financial, extension and enforcement measures to be introduced under the project; the relative
importance and role of each specific fishery; the best scientific data available on the current and likely
future biological state of the fisheries resources; and actual price data collected for each fishery by
comprehensive regular and frequent surveys. Non-quantifiable benefits include protecting and
strengthening the fishing-dependent communities by reinforcing a strong forward and backward
linkages that exist in the sector. The project would also widen the horizons and perspectives of the
staff of DOF, provide a wider and more varied career path and open up the operation of DOF to a
wider range of professional disciplines that were not practiced before. The institutional strengthening
program and a sound fisheries management regime will also enable DOF to introduce a licensing fee,
royalty or levy system to recover at least the costs of the management of the fisheries and eventually
any economic rent that may be generated through the operation of the management regime.
2.    The reorganization, staffing and training at DOF will be essentially completed by year two of
the project; fisheries resources management plan, some elements of which are assumed in the
analysis, and monitoring, control and surveillance and enforcement services will also be in place by
the end of year two of the project.
3.   With respect to each fishery, the following additional assumptions were made:
(a)    Small Pelagics. The project will introduce registration and licensing of all fishing
vessels, including artisanal canoes, which catch the bulk of the small pelagic resources.
It will also introduce self management in the fishing communities through the well
established fishers' associations and the traditional authority of the Chief Fisherman.
On Lake Volta, illegal fishing nets and other devices, such as bamboo traps,
proliferate the fishery and need to be eliminated. Registration and licensing of canoes
under the project will be an important first step towards controlling activity and access
to the fishery. Without management, the stocks are likely to decline over time as
increasing numbers of flshers enter the fishery and become more effective and
efficient. This would put pressure on the resource from over-fishing of the stocks and
fishing of juveniles, thus reducing recruitment, and lead to declining profitability and
the possibility of significant social dislocation as a result of impacts on fishing-
dependent communities. Self management is the accent but MCS activities to be
introduced under the project will back the agreed management plan. With good
management, it is expected that there will be a longer term increase in the pelagic



- 58 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 8
resources available to be harvested from both marine and inland fisheries. The
objectives would be to regulate the number of canoes, and possibly the number of
fishing days for each vessel, particularly during the recovery and spawning periods,
and to enforce appropriate and legal fishing nets and practices. The estimated benefit
from the marine pelagics is 10 percent of the value of the average catch over the past
five years (123,000 tons), which would accrue beginning the fourth year of the project.
This is a conservative assumption in the light of the current activity in this fishery.
Various estimates for the Lake Volta, from 4,800 tons to 20,000 tons, have been put
forward as likely future production increases from a well-managed pelagic lake fishery.
It has proven difficult to arrive at a single reliable estimate. For the purposes of
analysis, it is estimated that the sustainable recovery will begin in year three of the
project and reach 4,800 tons annually by year five.
(b)    Demersal Resources. A key assurance to be given by govermment during negotiations
(and an element which is expected to be a permanent feature of the management plan)
is the removal from inside the 30 meter depth line of all trawlers in excess of 50 gross
registered tonnage not later than June 30, 1996. This measure and other appropriate
management practices will allow the recovery of these resources and the establishment
of a higher Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY) and therefore increased catches. The
total annual catch of demersal species by all fleets has averaged some 42,000 tons over
the past five years, with the highest recorded catch being 59,000 tons in 1975. Under
appropriate management, the demersal fleets could produce up to 70,000 tons per year,
but an increase in the MSY of 15,000 tons in the longer term is a more reasonable
expectation. This can occur with no reduction in fishing effort other than the removal
from inside the 30 meter depth line of trawlers in excess of 50 gross registered
tonnage. A greater increase in the recovery of the demersal fishery is possible, but a
more conservative approach should be adopted in the short term, at least until the
research and MCS activities are in full operation. It has been assumed, therefore, that
a modest stock recovery will occur beginning in the fourth year of the project,
increasing the sustainable yield by a total of 15,000 tons three years after that. There
will be additional economic and financial benefits from reduced gear conflicts, and an
artisanal fleet that will operate more efficiently as a result. There will also be a
reduction in the catch of juveniles through the enforcement of fishing gear restrictions.
(c.    Crustaceans and Shrimps. The stocks of crustaceans and shrimps are currently over-
fished and can be expected to decline further without effective management. The
management plan, to be prepared with technical assistance under the project, would
allow the recovery and subsequent expansion of these fisheries, which in total are
capable of producing an additional 1,000 tons of catch. These species tend to have a
high value, and small increases in allowable catches can produce very positive results.
The increase can be expected to begin in the fourth year of the project, with the
recovery being maximized three years thereafter.
(d)    TLna. An expansion of this fishery is highly likely regardless of the project. The
furti.er development of this fishery will largely depend on future trends in world
market prices. However, a management regime to be introduced under the project



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of S
would provide stability and a degree of certainty in the enviromment for private sector
planning. This is likely to encourage investment in the fishery. With increased
investment, an uncontrolled or unrestricted expansion would cause biological and
economic problems at a later date. These problems could well include over-fishing of
the resource, or at the very least involve an uneconomic expansion of capacity with a
consequential dissipation of any economic rent generated by the effective management
of this resource. It would be prudent to provide a management framework within
which the development of this fishery could take place. However, no benefits from
this fishery, other than fiscal revenues, have been included in the project benefit
stream for purposes of computing the ERR.
4.    The incremental physical benefit streams (in thousands of tons), based on the expected stock
recovery, are summarized below:
Eiserv         1996      1997    IM 198      99    2000    lw m       29-2010
Snmll Pelagic$         -        -      1.2    14.7    17.1    17.1        17.1
Dcmersl                                        5.0    7.5    12.0         15.0
Crustacean/Shrimnp                             0.25    0.5    0.75        1.0
Prices and Markets
5.    The market for fish in Ghana and the rest of the world is expected to remain strong. Total
fish consumption in Ghana has increased trend-wise from 249,000 tons in 1984 to 383,000 tons in
1993. Up to 1991, consumption was less than total fish catch out of Ghanaian waters but the situation
has changed since 1992, when consumption begun outstripping production. Imports have risen
steadily from 500 tons in 1986 to 37,000 tons in 1993. Some of the high value demersal, tuna and
crustacea/shrimp species, which until recently were all exported, now sell on the local market. With
higher domestic prices relative to export prices, more fish tend to be sold on the domestic market and
vice versa. Tuna exports as a percent of catch increased each year from 70 percent in 1985 to 86
percent in 1988 but has since declined to 56 percent in 1993 as more is off-loaded on the domestic
market due to rising real prices. All the projected increase in catches will be sold on the domestic
market and will offset potential increases in fish imports. Without the project, it is expected that the
increased demand for fish would reduce exports and place considerable pressure on the fishing sector
to increase its effort to catch more fish with likely disastrous consequences both for the resource and
for the fishers.
6.    Prices for different species caught in the same fisheries differ and exhibit wide daily and
seasonal fluctuations. They are lowest at the peak of the fishing season (August), and highest during
December/January. The prices used in the analyses represent the average prices for the last three
years weighted heavily by the lowest value species in each fishery. They also weigh heavily towards



- 60 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 8
prices prevailing during the peak harvest period, when prices tend to be at their lowest. For example,
most demersal species have an average price range over the fishing year of US$16,660 (August) to
US$18,330 per ton (December/January) for sikaska specie, and US$13,330 to US$15,000 per ton for
cassava specie. However, in the analysis, the incremental benefits in the demersal fishery are valued
at US$700 per ton, heavily weighted by the lower value boritto species and reflecting more of August
prices. Prices for small pelagics of US$400 per ton reflect more of the lower value anchovy species
than the higher value sardinella species, which fetch over US$800 per ton and account for half of the
small pelagics harvest. For crustacea and shrimps, a price of US$5,000 per ton was used although
shrimp fetches upwards of US$7,000 a ton. These market prices at fish landing points are border-
price equivalents used for all valuations of benefits, and there are no differences between financial and
economic prices. Although these prices can be expected to increase in real terms, given Ghana's
preference for fish as a source of protein, increases in population and higher incomes, a conservative
approach has been adopted, and the prices are assumed to remain unchanged during the period of
analysis.
Economic Rate of Return & Sensitivity Analysis
7.    The economic cost and benefit streams are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
In carrying out the analysis the following assumptions, in addition to those already discussed above,
were made:
(a)    The benefit streams for each fishery have been combined in different ways to gain a
more accurate assessment of the most likely outcome, and to ensure that the project
benefits are not overestimated. The most realistic outcome assumes that the only
benefits directly attributable to the project are those arising from the recovery in the
demersal fisheries.
(b)    The benefits are expected to commence in the fourth year of the project and be phased
in over the succeeding four years. This takes into account the expected recovery time
for the fishery resources.
(c)    The project's life has been set at fifteen years.
8.    At a discount rate of 12 percent the project produces a NPV of US$ 28.1 million for the
minimum expected recovery, that of the demersal fisheries. With the recovery of all fisheries, the
project yields a NPV of US$80.2 million. The corresponding Economic Rates of Return (ERR) are
44.8 percent (demersal) and 80.2 percent (all Fisheries).
9.    The main risks to the anticipated benefits are biological, financial and institutional. The most
important risk factors are biological. The assumed level and timing of the recovery of the biomass in
various fisheries has been conservatively estimated. Nevertheless, the actual recovery could be
adversely or favorably affected by unforeseen and uncontrollable environmental factors, such as
upwelling, in the case of small pelagics. The financial risk is a possible shortage of counterpart
funds; it Is a general public finance problem that affects all the agricultural portfolio. The
institutional risk relates to the capacity of the DOF; it is weak relative to the task at hand and



- 61 -
ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 8
although the project directly addresses this issue, changes in management and administrative processes
and culture may not occur at the pace assumed. A potential risk to project like this one, in which
increase in fish catch is ultimately the justification for instituting measures for stock recovery, is the
possibility of soft markets and prices for the fish. Such risks are considered minimal in this
operation.
10.  The biological risks in the form of a weaker-than expected or delayed recovery due to
environmental factors are partly addressed by measures under the project: protection of spawning
grounds from fishing, enforcement of mesh and gear standards and banning the use of traps and
explosives in fishing, are designed to protect juveniles, and to enhance recruitment in the various
fisheries and recovery of the fish biomass. On project finance, Government has indicated that the
shortage of counterpart funds Is a short-term problem, that it in no way implies the sector's low
priority in the public investment program, and-that it does not expect the problem to continue. In any
event, the project would also generate additional public revenue, depending on the level and timing of
the recovery of the fisheries, some of which could be used to finance the public expenditures in the
sub-sector. On institutional weakness, strengthening of the capacity of DOF is a major component of
the project. Many of the actions needed to strengthen capacity of the DOF so it can implement other
parts of the project will be taken up-front: adoption of the re-organization plan and new structure of
DOF as well as assignment of all substantive implementing managers were conditions of negotiations
and were fulfilled; and most of the training and technical assistance and other institution-building
activities are front-loaded. During implementation, IDA and the Borrower would also conduct
detailed annual reviews of implementation, where the focus would be advance identification of
problems and solutions, including assessing changes in institutional capacity and prospects for
counterpart funding.
11.  If the biological, financial and institutional risks materialized to adversely affect the project, in-
spite of the mitigating features in the project design discussed above, they would delay and weaken
the strength of the recovery of the fish stocks in the various fisheries. The sensitivity analysis is
based on the probable impact of the risks to the project in their order of significance and their
likelihood to materialize. To assess the sensitivity of the project results to the biological, financial
and institutional risks, the following changes were made to the parameters:
(a) volume estimates were reduced by 25 percent, and
(b) the benefits were assumed not to commence until year six.
12.  A weaker than expected recovery, reflected in a 25 percent reduction in fish biomass at fill
recovery, would reduce the NPV of the project for the base case to US$18.6 million and the ERR to
36.9 percent. Deferring the conmnencement of benefits from year four to year six would reduce the
NPV to US$17.2 million and the ERR to 29.8 percent.
13.  Market and price risks are very unlikely to materialize. However, the sensitivity of the net
benefit stream to a possible softening of markets and prices was assessed by reducing prices 20
percent. This reduces the NPV to US$20.5 million and the ERR to 38.6 percent for the base case.



- 62 -
ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 8
14.   Combining reduced volumes of catch, delayed commencement of benefits, and reduced real
prices by 20% would yield NPV of US$10.3 million and an ERR of 25.3 percent.
B. Financial Analysis
Project's Financial Impact on a Cross-Section of Fishers
15.   Based on a combination of vessel types, scale of activity, fish species targeted and destination
of the catch, four categories of fishers can be identified: industrial tuna fishers; large trawlers; semi-
industrial fishers-inshore vessels; and artisanal canoe fishers. Available industry data shows that
except the tuna fishers, most of the fishing enterprises and artisanal fishermen are at present in a state
of financial stress, particularly the semi-industrial inshore fishers. Following removal from the rich
waters off the Namibian and Angolan coast, the large Ghanaian trawler fleet is also experiencing
financial problems, although some have recently diversified into fish imports.
16.   The project in one way or another will affect each of the above groups of fishers on the
revenue and cost sides of their operating accounts. On the revenue side, the group that would be
least affected, particularly in the short-to medium term, are the tuna fishers as the project has the least
direct impact on them. The revenue of inshore and canoe fishers will be boosted as their catch
increases with the recovery of the fisheries in response to the implementation of the fisheries
management plan; the only uncertainty is the timing of the recovery. In the short run, the revenues
of the large trawlers, who are currently fishing illegally inshore, may be adversely affected as they
are pushed outside the 30 meter depth, which is critical to the recovery of the demersal fisheries. On
the cost side, semi-industrial inshore and canoe fishermen would see their marginal costs of catching
additional fish come down as they would travel shorter distances, stay at sea shorter periods and
utilize the capacity of the vessels more fully and save on fuel; since the removal of the premix fuel
subsidy, fuel constitutes the largest element of fishing costs. Its use would be reduced as the
demersal and small pelagics inshore fisheries recover. The operating costs of the large trawlers,
however, will likely increase as they are forced to operate further out at sea. In the long run, even
the large trawler fleet should benefit financially from the project as all the fisheries recover. In
addition, the Ghana Government has indicated that relief to the large trawlers may be on the way
through negotiations of bilateral fishing rights with other countries in the region where the trawlers
can fish as they did off Namibian and Angolan coast before the extension of the EEZ.
17.   The policy reform introduced under the project of a fishing royalty adds to the business costs
of all fishers, except the artisanal canoe fishermen who would not be affected. Being based on actual
catch, the royalty levy is progressive so that those fishers who do not do well in physically catching
the fish will not be burdened with fixed taxes. Also the phasing in of the levy, beginning as late as
June 1997, is meant to give affected fishers enough time to plan and the levies would not be increased
unless the comprehensive review, scheduled for mid-1998, establishes the need and feasibility for any
increases. The additional cost to the fishers would be more than offset by the benefits, in the form of
higher private net income, derived from the public resource management regime that it is intended to
finance. Tbe artisanal canoe fishermen, who account for about 65 percent of the fish catch, derive
the largest net financial benefits.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
Project's Impact on Public Revenues and Expenditures
18.  The project would increase the public expenditures in the sub-sector from the current level of
about US$500,000 per year to about US$1.2 million per year by the end of the project. The project
would also generate substantial additional revenues. A new fisheries royalty levy equivalent, to one
percent of the gross landed value of the fish catch, will come into effect by June 30, 1997. Since the
artisanal canoe fishermen are exempt from this levy initially, from a practical point of view the levies
will apply mainly to harvest of tuna, dermersal and crustacea and shrimp; they will be paid by the
industrial and semi-industrial fleet. Small pelagics and inland fisheries, which are mainly exploited
by artisanal canoe fishers, would make minimal contribution.
19.  Fiscal revenue from royalties is projected to increase from US$250,000 in 1997 to US$0.8
million per year at the end of the project's implementation phase if the rate remains at one percent of
the gross landed value of catch. This would be a major reform given that the sector currently
contributes only about US$20,000 to revenue. At project maturity, the revenue contribution would be
more than 1.2 times the recurrent cost needs of running the new fisheries management regime from
year 2001. The net present value of the fiscal benefits of the project at a 12 percent rate of discount
is US$1.2 million.
Modality for Collection of Fisheries Levies
20.  The exemption of the numerous traditional artisanal canoe fishers from the new royalty levy
simplifies the necessary machinery for collection. Basically the process will involve two agencies of
government: the Department of Fisheries and the Internal Revenue Service. The DOF, which has
responsibility for collecting, processing and maintaining fisheries data will collect statistics on fish
catch by each vessel and each company/business and report it to the IRS on a monthly basis. The
IRS will bill the fishers on a quarterly basis.
21.   About 10 percent of the funds would be deposited in the present Fisheries Development Fund
into which duties on imported fish are currently deposited. These funds would be used for upgrading
facilities and services at the fishing community level. In time, when registration/license fees and/or
royalties payments are extended to canoe fishers, collection costs incurred by the fishers' associations
and the Chief Fisherman can be financed out of this fund. Provision of services to the fishing
communities financed out of this fund up-front would militate against opposition to fees that canoe
fishers could be made liable to in the future. Transparency in the use of these funds on approved
fisheries facilities and services will be critical to the success of the program. The fishers' associations
and the powerful traditional authority of the Chief Fisherman in the fishing communities would be
involved upstream in identifying community needs to be financed with these funds. As services to the
communities improve and the fisheries recover and the management plan is understood, a modest
canoe registration fee could be introduced during the operational phase of the project.
Financial Analysis of Representative Aguaculture Farm Models
22.   Aquaculture is financially viable, as demonstrated by the following models which represent the
cross-section of types of farms. Four models are presented: (a) an integrated fish-vegetable-cassava



-64-
ANNEX 14
Page 8 of 8
farm (typical of the south and middle belts), (b) an integrated fish-rice farm (typical of the north and
upper north belts), (c) a mono-culture fish farm, and (d) a fingerlings production farm.
23.   All ponds are manually excavated earth ponds stocked with tilapia, catfish and mud-fish. Pond
construction is generally undertaken by family labor supplemented by some hired labor paid for in
kind. The same applies for harvesting with the labor supplied by the farmer and his family. Stock
for the pond is traditionally obtained from 'wild" sources at minimal cost but allowance has been
made in the analysis for the purchase of quality fingerlings. The major source of feed for the
operation is from on-farm waste at zero cost. Allowance has been made, however, for the purchase
of some feed and fertilizer. On the more specialized farms, mostly prevalent in the Ashanti Region,
more inputs are purchased such as fingerlings and feed. Gross returns range from 45 percent to over
100 percent, with the highest for fingerling production. The major limiting factor to expansion of
aquaculture is slow diffusion of the technology to small farmers and the risk involved particularly
when not integrated with crop culture, the culture that the farmer is more familiar with.
24. Integrated Fish-Vegetable-Cassava Farm. The model farm is approximately 190 square meters
and the fish culture period is eight months. Details are in Tables 3.
25.  Integrated Fish-Rice Farm. The farm is of 0.2 ha rice plot and the fish is cultured for four
months following rice harvest. Details are in Table 4.
26. Pure Fish Production Farm. The farm is of mixed sex culture of Oreochromis niloticus and
cafish cultured in 100 days. Details are in Table 5.
27.   Fingerlings Production Farm. The farm produces fingerlings of tilapia 0. niloticus based on a
six months cycle operation of a 0.0262 ha hatchery. Details are in Table 6.
28.   Results from Other Studies of Ghana Aauaculturt Farm Models. FAO has carried out studies
of private fish farming in Ghana. The latest, published in 1994, focussed on larger farms in the
Accra region and other farms of varying sizes in Ashanti region, including those that are engaged in
integrated fish/poultry farming and integrated fish/piggery farming. The data from these farm models
provide further evidence that aquaculture in Ghana can be financially rewarding if properly managed.
A key element for success nas been identified as up-front advice to farmers in pond sight selection
and construction as well as pond and overall farm management. In particular, integrated
fish/vegetable/poultry and piggery farming, with appropriate extension support, can be very
profitable. Markets are not a problem as the demand for fresh water fish is so strong that fish is in
many cases ordered and sold prior to harvest.



- 65 -
ANNEX 14
Table 1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Net Benefit Streams
Fishery                                       l
Demersal      l                 l      Demersal        I Demersal & Small Pelagic
Year                              All Benefits n/     & Aquaculture     I
------------ (US$illion) ----------------------
1996              -4.70              -4.70                -4.70                    -4.70
1997              -1.01              -1.01                -1.01                    -1.01
1998              -1.62              -0.78                -1.62                    -0.78
1999               4.20               10.88                3.03                     9.63
2000               7.76               15.98                5.20                    13.48
2001               9.86               20.79                8.76                    17.04
2002               9.86              24.12                 10.86                   19.12
2003               9.86              24.12                 10.86                   19.12
2004               9.86              24.12                 10.86                   19.12
2010                                 24.12                 10.86                   19.12
*/ All benefits include demersal, aquaculture, small pelagics, curstacea & shrimp.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Stream
Pn  t                                 Benefits                                             Total BcnJfits
Yc-r      Costs      Smal Pclagics    Demersal   CrustaccarlShnimps I Aquaculture    (a)        (b)       (c       (d) e(e)
_ ______           -              _('USS million)
1996
1997      4.70            _              -                _                _           _         _         _        _ 
1998       1.01           -                                          ---                         ----
1999       1.62          0.48            -                -                -           -       0.84       -        0.84       _
2000       1.47          5.88           3.50             1.25             1.00        3.50     12.35      4.79     11.39     4.50
2001       1.05          6.84           5.25             2.5              1.00        5.25     17.03     7.75      16.03     6.25
2002       0.64          6.84           8.40             3.75             1.00        8.40     21.43     12.15    20.43      9.40                 .      O
2003       0.64          6.84          10.50             5.00             1.00       105.9     24.78     15.50    23.78     11.50                        a
2010       0.64          6.84                                                        10.50     24.78              23.78     11.50
0.64          6.84          10.50             5.00             1 .00      10.50     24.78     15.50    23.78     11.50
(a)    Demersal.
(b)    All benefits.
(c)    Demersal plus Crustacean/Shrimps.
(d)    Demersal plus Crustacean/Shrimps plus Small Pclagics from marine & inland sources.
(e)    Demersal plus aquaculture.
pF3 



- 67 -
ANNEX 14
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Fish/Ve2etable/Cassava Farm Model
Cost/Benefit
Item                                      (USS)
Investment
Pond Construction
Labor (food for helpers)                                  16.84
PVC (for outlet)                                          I 53
Total                                           27.37
Operatine ExRenses
Depreciation (15 years)                                    1.82
Fertilizer                                                 1.89
Feed                                                       8.32
Fingerlings                                               21.32
Labor (family labor for fish feeding)                      8.42
Harvesting                                                 1.68
Labor (gardening)                                          1.58
Seed                                                       0.21
Total                                           45.24
Revenue,
Fish sold                                                 25.26
Fish consumed                                             27.79
Fish given away                                            6.32
Tomatoes                                                   2.63
Garden egg                                                 1.26
Total                                           63.26
Return on Investment (%)                                      66%



- 68 -
ANNEX 14
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Fish/Rice Farm Model
Cost/Benefit
Item                                       (US$)
Investment
Construction of Refuge and trenches                        63.88
Labor (food for helpers)                                    3.30
67.18
Total
Operating Expenses
Depreciation (5 years)                                      0.65
Land Preparation and water levy                            11.80
Fertilizer and rnanure                                     11.18
Fingerlings                                                11.80
Labor for maintenance and feeding                          21.32
Labor for harvesting fish                                   5.30
Labor for rice                                              2.94
Seed                                                        5.90
Feed                                                        5.90
Total                                             2.35
57.82
Revenue
Rice                                                       48.24
Fish sold                                                  18.94
Fish consumed                                               8.82
12.35
Total
88.35
Return on Investment (%)                                      45.4%



- 69 -
ANNEX 14
Table S
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Pure Food Fish Farm Model
Cost/Benefit
Item                                      (USS)
Investment
Pond Construction
Service Building (pro-rated)                             2,690.20
PVC (for outlet)                                            54.35
Total                                          2,798.90
Oueratine Expenses (100-Dav Culture Period)
Depreciation (20 years)                                    166.30
Pond maintenance                                           1S2.30
Cost of 5,000 fingerlings                                  165.20
Harvesting fee                                              32.60
Transportation                                             260.20
Feed cost                                                  215.10
Labor                                                      246.20
Packaging material                                          49.70
1,287.20
Total
Revenue
Fish sold                                                2,759.50
Return on Investment (%)                                       S2.6



- 70 -
ANNEX 14
Table 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Fingerlin2s Production Farm Model
Cost/Benefit
Item                                       (US$)
Investment
Pond Construction                                        326.00
PVC (for outlet)                                          81.50
Cost of brood fish                                        43.50
451.00
Total
Ooerating ExRenses (6 months operation)
Depreciation (pond construction and pvc, 20
years)                                                  24.45
Depreciation (brood stock, 2 years)                        5.20
Pond maintenance                                          13.60
Transportation                                            13.60
Feed cost                                                 67.90
Labor                                                     13. 60
138.35
Total
Revenue
Fish sold                                                 652.20
Retum on Investment (%)                                       114.0



- 71 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of S
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Government's Letter of Sub-Sector Policy
Mr. Lewis T.Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.   The purpose of this letter is to outline for you the main features of our policy for managing the
fisheries sub-sector. In conjunction with programs of adjustment, IDA has assisted the Government
of Ghana with various credits to strengthen economic management. In agriculture, the Agricultural
Services Rehabilitation Project (ASRP), laid the foundation for better policy formulation, planning,
monitoring and evaluation. We now have a Medium Term Agricultural Development Program, which
was developed in consultation with IDA, in the context of which our programs and projects, including
this proposed Fisheries Project, are designed and implemented. The ASRP also was an important
first step in strengthening operational capacity of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA).
Now that the adjustment program has corrected most of the policy distortions in the macro and
agricultural sector, we intend to continue emphasis on removing structural obstacles to investment by
the private sector. In the fisheries sub-sector, more institutional strengthening need to be initiated in
order for the Fisheries Department and related institutions to carry out the mandate of fisheries
resources management and development.
Background
2.    A number of pertinent policy and exogenous developments have impacted the fisheries sector
which I would like to apprise you of as background to the proposed operation. Ghana's Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), supported by IDA since its launching in 1983, has encouraged private
sector activities and sought to minimize the role of government in the direct provision of goods and
services, including the supply of fishing gear. It also encouraged non-traditional exports, including
fish and other marine products. The result of these measures has been increased fish harvesting on the
continental shelf using illegal but highly profitable small mesh size nets. On the international scene,
West and South-Western African countries, the traditional fishing grounds of the Ghanaian trawler
fleet, recently imposed restrictions on the Ghanaian registered deep sea fleet through enforcement of
the 200 nautical mile Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). With its traditional fishing grounds closed,
the Ghanaian large industrial trawler vessels, the smaller semi-industrial in-shore fleet and the canoe
artisanal fleet all fish on the narrow continental shelf, seriously threatening the demersal fisheries.
Although the Fisheries Law requires the trawlers to fish in the outer sea, beyond the 30 meter
contour, the Fisheries Department lacks the capacity to enforce this provision.



- 72 -
ANNEX IS
Page 2 of 5
Furthermore, with the cessation of the Government's supply of the legal mesh size nets and the
superior profitability of the illegal nets, juveniles of many fish species are being harvested resulting in
a low rate of regeneration. This is posing serious dangers particularly to canoe fishing. The
Fisheries Department lacks the capacity for monitoring and surveillance to enforce the law relating to
fishing gear.
3.    While some fisheries resources, such as tuna species, appear to be in no immediate danger and
others, such as cuttlefish beyond the 30 meter contour, are under-exploited, there is evidence that the
in-shore marine resources are being over-harvested. The lack of definitive and consistent policy in the
past resulted in the implementation by Government of fisheries projects and programs that tended to
promote broad exploitation of marine resources, including those that are particularly endangered. At
present, the various objectives of government policy in the fisheries sector appear to be at least
partially conflicting and unattainable. Their reconciliation in a comprehensive resource management
plan and implementation in a reformed, enabling regulatory and institutional framework are urgent
matters. This is the genesis of the proposed fisheries sector capacity-building project.
Obiectives of Government Policy
4.    Government policy in the fisheries sector aims at: increasing fish production for local
consumption and export, consistent with the long-term sustainability of the resource; alleviating
poverty in the fishing communities; development of resource management plans for the entire
fisheries sector; integration of fishing activities in the farming system through the promotion of
aquaculture; privatization of assets and operations of public bodies engaged in direct fishing or in the
supply of fishing gear; and, strengthening the Department of Fisheries so that it can effectively carry
out its mandate, particularly relating to the above tasks. In pursuing its accelerated growth objectives,
to raise GDP annual growth rate from 5 percent to 8-10 percent, government wishes to increase the
contribution of agriculture, with fisheries as an important source of growth.
5.    The Government would promote gender-sensitive development strategy and carry out programs
that particularly address rural and urban poverty as well as women-centered economic disadvantages.
The proposed project is a key instrument in the advancement of this policy in many ways: without
the project and the possible collapse of the demersal fishery and its associated canoe fishing activities,
major urban areas and nucleus settlements along the coast and the Volta Lake would become areas of
concentrated poverty; the dominance of women in fish processing, preservation and marketing in
Ghana is well known and few projects could be more women-oriented than a project such as this,
aimed at ensuring the long term sustainability of canoe-based fishing.
6.    All projects should be consistent with the Government's environmental policy, which is
designed to ensure sound management of resources to avoid any exploitation of resources in a manner
that might cause irreparable damage to the environment. The policy provides for: maintenance of
ecosystems and ecological processes essential for the functioning of the biosphere; sound management
of natural resources and the environment; protection of humans, animals and plants and their habitat;
guidance for healthy environmental practices in the national development effort; integration of



- 73 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 5
environmental considerations in sectoral structural and socio-economic planning at all levels; and
common approach to regional and global environmental issues. The fundamental aims of the
environmental policy would be pursued and achieved through harmonization and enforcement of
relevant laws and treaties on the environment, and through the implementation of our Environmental
Action Plan.
Strategy for Achieving Policy Objectives
7.    General. We intend to undertake or promote the following reforms and programs: pursue a
private sector oriented strategy to the utilization of fisheries resources and divest public sector
commercial assets and concerns; provide necessary services through appropriate public/private sector
interface so as to create an enabling environment in which private sector activities will flourish,
particularly in the area of aquaculture; remove policy bottlenecks to increased exploitation of the tuna
resources and promote private investment in the rehabilitation and expansion of the tuna fleet, so as to
increase exports; promote, through extension and other support services, private smallholder
investment in aquaculture so as to improve fish supply and consumption, especially in the hinterland,
and reduce rural poverty; using foreign trade and diplomatic channels, promote joint ventures between
Ghanaian and foreign investors in trawl fishing, so as to obtain foreign fishing rights for the Ghanaian
trawler fleet and stop its over-exploitation of in-shore demersal fisheries; rationalize exploitation of
both marine and freshwater fisheries resources; amend and update the fisheries law so as to facilitate a
regulatory framework in which the fisheries management plan would be effectively carried out; and,
restructure, equip and strengthen the Department of Fisheries and related institutions and fishers
groups so they can effectively implement the fisheries management plan, including monitoring,
control and surveillance, services which hitherto have been lacking and which the proposed project
seeks to establish and support.
8.    Privatization and Divestiture. Under our on-going adjustment program, the Government is
committed to divestiture of its commercial concerns and assets as part of its strategy to foster private
sector-led growth. In the fisheries sector, Government no longer supplies premix fuel, nets or any
other fishing gear as these activities have been completely privatized. All subsidies to fishing inputs
have been removed, including the subsidy to the premix fuel for canoe fishers which was removed in
1994. The State Fishing Corporation, the largest state commercial concern in the sector, has been
privatized.
9.    Fisheries Policy and Public Finance. At present, the fisheries sector's contribution to public
finance is well below its rated potential. Only the large industrial fleet and the semi-industrial in-
shore vessels are licensed and pay fees at very nominal rates. They also account for only about 20
percent of the total annual marine fisheries catch. The bulk of fishing activities, carried out by
artisanal canoe fishermen, are unlicensed and contribute little to government revenue. It is now
Government policy to require that all vessels operating in Ghanaian waters be registered and pay fees
for the privilege of fishing. These fees, to be set at or revised to an appropriate level, taking into
account the present financial condition of the fishing enterprises, are an integral part of the proposed
reforms to be supported by the proposed project. In any event the canoe registration process will be
a necessary step to implementing a stocks management plan.



- 74 -
ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 5
10.   Fisheries Policy and Legislation. The evolution of fisheries policy and implementation of the
fisheries management plan, to be prepared in the context of the proposed project, require updating
and, in some cases, amendment of existing Fisheries Law and regulations. It is Government policy to
secure the necessary legislative reforms and to promulgate new or amend existing regulations to
facilitate a legal and regulatory framework that is conducive to the carrying out of all aspects of the
fisheries management plan, including: revision(s) to the law to clarify the role, powers and duties of
the Fisheries Commission and the Department of Fisheries; and, provision for regulations to cater to
those areas which are subject to change from time to time due to management requirements.
11.   Fisheries Policy and Institutional Reform. We recognize that in order to effectively carry out
continuous stocks assessment, draw up management plans and carry them out, restructuring of the
Department of Fisheries will be necessary. This reform will be designed to establish, staff and equip
a new division, the Monitoring, Control and Surveillance Division (MCS), to ensure that activities
on the water bodies conform to the legal and physical objectives of the fisheries management plan.
The necessary ministerial order will be published establishing the MCS in the Department of
Fisheries. Existing divisions within the department will be strengthened through training and
logistical support to enable them to carry out their functions.
12.   Industrial Tuna Fishing Policy. Government policy aims at continuing promotion of this
activity, even in the short-run, to promote exports as the tuna fishery resources are under-exploited.
Tuna fishing has been constrained by: low world market prices, which are now beginning to recover,
and insufficient credit in the face of low cash positions of the tuna companies. The recovery of
international prices and resumption of tuna processing by the USA-based Star Kist corporation,
which buys the tuna from Ghanaian vessels, has begun to restore profitability to some enterprises.
Government will continue to promote joint ventures and investment in local tuna processing and
canning enterprises.
13.   Industrial Trawler Fleet Policy. Having been excluded from Angolan, Namibian and West
African deep sea fisheries in the EEZ framework, this fleet came home and is fishing on the
continental shelf alongside the in-shore and canoe fishing. Gear conflict is common and in spite of
the legal requirement that the fleet not fish inside the 30 meter contour, the fleet has caused damage
to the demersal fisheries. Government policy will focus on removing the trawler fleet to the outer
sea, where under-exploited resources are available. A key element of this policy will be the
enforcement of existing fisheries laws and regulations relating to fishing restrictions in the continental
shelf. The proposed MCS will be a first important step in this direction. A parallel policy effort is a
joint approach by the Government and the private sector to negotiate bilateral fishing agreements with
other countries.
14.   Semi-industrial In-shore Fishing. In-shore fishing enterprises are at present experiencing
distress. It is estimated that about half of the entire fleet is grounded for lack of
marine engines or spare parts at affordable or financially profitable prices. Their plight has been
aggravated by depletion of the inshore fisheries due to over-fishing, requiring more
fishing effort for declining catches at the same time as the cedi operating expenses have been rising
much faster than the market price of fish. Government policy will focus on relief in
the medium-term to semi-industrial operators through enforcement of the 30 meter exclusion of large
trawlers and implementation of other aspects of the overall fisheries management plan aimed at



- 75 -
ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 5
restoring the demersal stock. Only then will this category of fishing start reaping returns in the form
of increased catch per fishing effort.
15.   Artisanal Canoe Fishing. There are an estimated eight-to nine thousand canoes operating in
marine waters harvesting approximately eighty percent of the total marine fish catch. The canoe fleet
on the Volta Lake, numbering some fifteen thousand assorted vessels, catches about 15 percent of
total domestic fish. The social consequences of the collapse of canoe fishing are underlined by the
national dependence on fish for over 60 percent of protein in-take and the near total dependence of
large settlements along the coast and the Volta Lake on fishing or associated activities. Thus it is
national policy to prevent any possible collapse of these fisheries and to promote their sustainable
harvest. As with the semi-industrial in-shore activity, canoe fishing is in distress due to rising
operational costs, relative to increases in fish prices, and depleted fish stocks. Government policy
aims at assisting canoe fishing through implementation of fisheries management plans that will, among
other things, help the recovery of in-shore demersal resources. We will also work with the traditional
leadership in the fishing villages in improving the management of the resources.
16.  Inland Fisheries Policy. Inland fisheries comprise lakes, rivers, lagoons, estuaries and
aquaculture, with the Volta Lake as the dominant fishery (about 90 percent of inland fish catch). The
problem of over-fishing identified in marine fisheries are equally serious on the lake. Government
intends to carry out stock assessments, prepare a management plan and continuously monitor its
implementation. The proposed MCS activities will also cover the lake and inland fisheries in general.
Aquaculture and other fisheries in the smaller inland water bodies offer an opportunity to improve
nutrition in the hinterland and increase incomes of the small farmer in the context of the mixed
integrated fish/crop/livestock activities. It could develop into an instrument to directly address
poverty. Data from on-going activities and pilot tests have demonstrated that with the proper
technology and management aquaculture can be financially and economically viable. Government
policy is to pursue an integrated approach to the development of inland fisheries through extension in
the framework of MOFA's Unified Extension. It is also our intention to involve a number of non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), which have acquired aquaculture expertise, in the extension
effort. The fisheries laws and regulations, which at the moment are silent about the whole area of
aquaculture, will be appropriately amended to define the framework in which aquaculture will be
promoted and regulated.
Conclusion
17.   I hope you will find this summary of our policies and progress made so far in attaining the
objectives satisfactory.
Sincerely yours,
Hon. Kwesi Botchwey
Minister of Finance



- 76 -
ANNEX 16
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Sector
1. Republic of Ghana. Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy: An Agenda for Sustained
Growth and Development (1991-2000). 1991.
2. Afful, K.N. Fisheries Sector Development Strategy for Ghana: 1993-2000. June 1993.
B. Reports Relating to the Proiect
3. FAC/CP. Fisheries Sub-Sector Capacity Building Project: Preparation Report
May 18, 1994.
4. Republic of Ghana, Department of Fisheries. Draft Fisheries Law and Regulation. September
1994.



IBRD 26335
BURKINA FASO                                                    3
GHANA
g         Act'~ noo                                                                FISHERIES SUB - SECTOR CAPACITY
TBOLGATANGAA                                               BUILDING PROJECT
IRR CAT 0H PROjECTS
*.-i    AFAR NE 5TAT ONS t/ITH ACQUACULTUJE
SERV CES
(                 AonLolin  ;   ^ bACQUACULTUR3 STATIONS,
A                                                                                                               A   eo       Ir ILANED FISHER. FS STATIONS
A       )                               lo~                                                 i) Bvblelag:    p 'if _DAmS
.A  0l                                                          .u Iqn  Tr c.u.l 19 1e    i                 - - ' PRPRW.ASY TOADS
A  S o oe  o o .03 :  ,.     ,,1S E                          C O N D A RY   R O A D S
TEPTIARY ROA,DS
,,o,o Deu oA TAMALE                           1             ,+                     RAItcWATS
ft)       5 .:nt:.J . (3  REGIOrN HEADQUARTERS
4                 HIct O9u .   lnt 1    (; NAT ONL CAPITAL
C'               03oo               .            :w e xROT    
,A                                                                                  RECIOCI BOLNDORIES
Sup                                            /  3 ,   nt1,'L-  48
I;                    So CgrCA *                        Z"                    INTERTTATIONAL BOUNDARIES
COTE                                                                     A
D'IVOIRE                                                                                                                     d o [  ,e    "aT  s   d on
I                                                                    1)        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the, ,orlo,C,, rCOw3
>  _  v  DA  oCtl  .. il . . c/x th.s lbC~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~ p                                     do    "of
T Boor,o                                                                             I1         The WorId SCOW  Group,
0,,0                                                         0  A rl   bC093dg3-t - tho legoi
jooendo r   'es-
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K- c,"t -e-                                                                    ,f -.h
IG         B Ll,                                                                              i,                          ,    K  1t L1 /
SUNSAN   A                                                                                                                   IC, j
(~~~~~~~~~
;  ^ KU,.,ASI 1<                                                       .Dsr   \                    TOGO
A            A     '. g                          A 
Or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oc
A~~~~~A', 02b                                          rBnR              < OROjDUA T;          '3                                                              C .tDb,e  
\~   ~~e                        , 3UrOD                                          .' Ai  /                                      * Gcgo_
C   >  Cnc Coo /Aon ogwuo tO/                                                                                                     SACr>K   4ur   hozr
0toohrog> 7nw                                              -,                    i              ---
*  ACCRA                                                          ,-
"#       Rooo% 0UVOIOKO  \         ti     CAPE COAST                                         3E    0.                  9  0   -
_, Hvfossm~~~r                                  C                                            E                                      n.  I  HSF  . ~    .pL  fr,
A,--- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-
Anx-           AgunoG   {SEKONDI                                                                                                               1995
FEBRUARY 1995












