                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26166

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-27130)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.0 MILLION (SDR6.2 MILLION)

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                                 FOR A

                     FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                                              June 27, 2003




Rural Development 2
Country Department 10
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2002)

                  Currency Unit = Cedis
                         817.50 = US$ 0.10
                      US$ 1.00 = 8.175

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     AGSSIP        Agricultural Services Subsector Investment Program
     CBFMC         Community-Based Fisheries Management Committee
     CSIR          Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
     DA            District Assembly
     DDA           District Director of Agriculture
     DDO           District Development Officer
     DOF           Department/Directorate of Fisheries
     FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
     FSCBP         Fisheries Subsector Capacity Building Project
     GLV           Gross Landed Value
     GoG           Government of Ghana
     ICCAT         International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna
     ICR           Implementation Completion Report
     JICA          Japan International Cooperation Agency
     IFMD          Inland Fisheries Management Division
     MCSD          Monitoring, Control and Surveillance Division
     MFMD          Marine Fisheries Management Division
     MFMP          Marine Fisheries Management Plan
     MFRD          Marine Fisheries Research Division
     MLS           Minimum Landing Size
     MOFA          Ministry of Food and Agriculture
     MTADS         Medium-Term Agriculture Development Strategy
     NGOs          Non-Governmental Organizations
     SMSs          Subject Matter Specialists
     WRI           Water Resources Institute

                 Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
      Country Manager/Director:     Mats Karlsson
       Sector Manager/Director:     Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Charles Annor-Frempong

                                      REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                 FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
    6. Sustainability                                                                12
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
    9. Partner Comments                                                              16
    10. Additional Information                                                       17
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
    Annex 8. Mid-term Review Mission Aide Memoire                                    28
    Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                 32
Map: IBRD No. 26335

Project ID: P000962                                                      Project Name: FISHERIES
Team Leader: Charles Annor-Frempong                                      TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: FISHERIES                                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-27130
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (67%); Animal production
                            (33%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Administrative and civil service reform (S); Law
                            reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/10/1993                                        Effective: 10/23/1995              10/23/1995
   Appraisal:    09/28/1994                                            MTR: 04/01/1998                10/05/1998
    Approval:    05/02/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/21/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF GHANA/MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Cynthia Cook
Team Leader at ICR:             Charles Annor-Frempong                         T. Haile-Mariam
ICR Primary Author:             Lucie H.G. Tran


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's main objective, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), was to establish the long-term
sustainability of the fisheries resource and thereby maximize its contribution to the economy. The objective
was consistent with the 1994 Country Assistance Strategy for Ghana and the priorities of the Government
as outlined in the 1991-2000 Medium-Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS) which was
discussed and agreed with the Bank.

The project was important for the agriculture sector since it was one of a series of agriculture-related
projects designed to implement the MTADS which examined the main constraints to the agriculture
sector's growth. The constraints were: poorly organized and managed agricultural services, neglected rural
infrastructure, particularly feeder roads, weak capacity of public sector institutions for managing the
sector, over-exploitation of natural resources exacerbated by inadequate public sector capacity for
formulating and enforcing appropriate policy, and adverse public sector interference in marketing and
pricing of inputs and outputs.

The fisheries sub-sector was identified at the time as an important potential source of growth but which
was subject to similar constraints. The sub-sector accounted for about 5 percent of the agricultural GDP
(value added of US$80 million at landing site and an equal amount generated by marketing and
processing), and the Government could earn substantial tax revenues from fishing activities. However, that
potential had not yet been fully exploited. Government objectives were to increase production for local
consumption and export consistent with the long-term sustainability of the resource, develop resource
management plans for the entire fisheries sector, integrate fishing activities in the farming system through
the promotion of aquaculture, privatize assets and operations of public bodies engaged in direct fishing or
in the supply of fishing gear, and strengthen the fisheries department so that it can effectively carry out its
mandate, particularly for the above tasks. To attain these objectives, the Government intended to: (a)
pursue a private sector oriented strategy and divest public sector commercial assets and concerns, (b)
remove policy bottlenecks to increased exploitation of tuna resources and promote private investment in
rehatilibation and expansion of the tuna fleet so as to increase exports, (c) promote, through extension and
other support services, private smallholder investment in aquaculture, especially in the hinterland, (d)
promote joint ventures between Ghanaian and foreign investors in trawl fishing so as to obtain foreign
fishing rights for the Ghanaian trawler fleet and stop its over-exploitation of in-shore demersal fisheries, (e)
rationalize exploitation of both marine and lake fisheries resources, through stock assessment surveys and
comprehensive management plans, aimed at harvesting various species only up to the maximum sustainable
yield in order to prevent the possible collapse of critical fisheries and increase exploitation of under-utilized
resources; (f) update the fisheries law in order to facilitate a regulatory framework in which the fisheries
management plan would be effectively carried out, and (g) strengthen the DoF and related institutions and
fishers' groups so that they can effectively implement the fisheries management plans, including monitoring,
control and surveillance.

The project was designed in light of these strategies and in response to evidence that lake and marine
fisheries in Ghana (except for tuna) was overexploited.

The project was complex and difficult for the Borrower to implement because of: (a) the range of policy
and institutional reforms required; (b) the large number of activities to be undertaken by an agency with
low capacity and lack of implementation experience in projects, (c) the number of institutions involved, and
(d) the wide geographical area covered by the project along the marine coast and shore and the entire area
of the Volta Lake and lake boundaries.



                                                      - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project, as stated in the SAR, included four components and their related objectives:

(1)      Strengthening the Department of Fisheries (DoF) (US$5.0 million) - strengthen the capacity of
the DoF in financial management, collection and management of fisheries levies, budget planning and
management through technical assistance and training of staff in extension methods, marketing, fisheries
resources management, fisheries economics, and monitoring, control and surveillance; reorganize DoF and
establish new divisions to deal with marine fisheries Management, and monitoring, control and
surveillance; and the revision of fisheries legislation.

(2)      Marine Fisheries Management (US$2.2 million) - build national capacity for stock assessment
of marine fisheries resources through: trawling trials, catch evaluations and acoustic surveys; improve the
quality of fisheries statistics through updating frame surveys, aerial census and registration of fishing
vessels; preparation of fishery management plans, and the promotion of community-based fisheries
management; and the rehabilitation of a fisheries research vessel.

(3)      Inland Fisheries Management (US$1.5 million) ­ support improved management and
development of lake fisheries through stock assessments, promote community-based management of
fisheries resources in lakes, the preparation and implementation of management plans in lake fisheries, and
the expansion of aquaculture through extension services.

(4)      Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance (MCS) (US$1.8 million) ­ establish the MCS systems in
both marine and lake fisheries, including the contribution of the Ghanaian Navy to implement the MCS
function at sea.

The above components are related directly to the objectives of the project and were designed to improve the
weak national capacity of the DoF to manage fisheries resources over the long-term, i.e., to evaluate
management options, set priorities, plan, implement management measures, enforce regulations and provide
support services to the fisheries sector. This was addressed through training and technical assistance which
made up the largest component of the project, accounting for 47 percent of the total project costs.

Project design attempted to incorporate lessons from Ghana's first Fisheries Project (Cr. 163-GH) and
from previous free-standing, Bank projects on fisheries by building in the institutional development
objectives lacking in the earlier projects. It attempted to address issues of weak institutional capacity,
project complexity, donor coordination, and delays in completion or procurement by improving the
coordination and building the capacity of key institutions, particularly at the Ministry (DoF) and at the
community levels, and keeping the objectives clearly defined and limiting the design to a few components
managed by a single institution. No donors were included to avoid the problems of coordination. However,
not all the problems could be resolved and the institutional arrangements for the MCS unit, in particular,
proved difficult to implement.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.




                                                       - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. Although no QAG assessment was carried out, the rating is based
on the following: (a) consistency of the project's objectives with the CAS discussed at the Board on April
14, 1994 which placed emphasis on capacity building, private sector led development, improved
management of natural resources and the environment, and support to programs that have short life spans
and are locally generated and owned; (b) consistency with government priorities for the sector expressed
through the MTADS, (c) the participatory process of preparation to ensure ownership,(d) the positive
impact that the project would have on the environment through promotion of sustainable fisheries, (e)
sound technical and economic analysis, and (f) focus on the long term improvement of the resources to
benefit the poor.

The project was identified and prepared by the DoF of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) with
the assistance of FAO/CP and the Bank. A national workshop was organized to review the sub-sector and
plan a broad development strategy (the Fisheries Sub-sector Development Strategy) which was then used as
a basis for preparing the project. Strong local participation from farmers, fishermen's associations,
traders, professionals from various agriculture-related institutions, NGOs, and the donor community were
solicited during the formulation of the project, and the Government of Ghana (GoG) gave its full support
by providing funding in Ghana's three-year rolling public investment program. The project was also
consistent with the country's Environmental Action Plan.

The project design stipulated creating the inter-linkages between the Government agencies to improve
efficiency and communication and avoid confusion. This proved to be a difficult challenge for the agencies
to which the holistic nature of the project was not apparent until some time later in the implementation
period. The project design was too ambitious in setting its physical targets and underestimated the tasks
ahead, particularly when it correctly identified the low capacity of the implementing agencies in terms of
staffing, skills and experience.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project achieved most of the major objectives and is rated satisfactory. The Department of
Fisheries (DoF) was re-organised into five divisions and their capacity strengthened to conduct stock
assessment, prepare and implement management plans; coordination and collaboration between different
agencies involved in the management of the fisheries resources has improved: stock assessments in the
marine sector and Volta Lake systems have been conducted and management plans prepared. Aquaculture
extension has been strengthened through training and fingerling production centers have been established. A
monitoring, control and surveillance system has also been established and the Fisheries Law enacted by
parliament.

However, since most of these objectives were achieved late in the project period, it cannot be said that the
mechanisms are in place for long-term sustainability of fisheries resources. Such improvements as DoF's
institutional capacity to manage fisheries resources will need longer-term support to reach full potential,
and capacity in monitoring and evaluation is still in the early stages of development. Fisheries research and
data collection is carried out with support from donor programs due to the absence of a research vessel
while enforcement of laws and regulations remain a challenge. A pilot aquaculture centre has been set up
and private sector investment in inland fisheries especially in aquaculture is being promoted.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                     - 4 -

Component 1: Strengthening the Department of Fisheries (DoF)

The objectives under this component have been met and the performance is rated satisfactory. The
reorganization of the DoF designed to eliminate ambiguity and emphasize fisheries resource management
functions was a success. All five divisions (Marine Fisheries Research; Marine Fisheries Management;
Inland Fisheries Management; Monitoring, Control and Surveillance; and Administration and Operations)
were created with clearly defined measurable roles, and are performing satisfactorily. The revised Fisheries
Law has been passed by Ghana's parliament and a strategy to enforce the law is being implemented.
Although this was an accomplishment for the sector, the late passage of the Law by Parliament, was a
setback for the project.

The earlier tensions between different implementing divisions over authority and accountability in the
day-to-day management of the project has eased although coordination between some divisions such as the
Marine Fisheries Research and the Marine Fisheries Management divisions is still weak. The
implementation of the revised Fisheries Law will eliminate some of these problems as the Fisheries
Commission will then have the full responsibility for the management and coordination of the various
management units.

The DoF's capacity has also been strengthened through the collection and management of fisheries levies
which would help finance the anticipated increase in public services that the DoF would provide to the
fishing industry. An impressive increase in funds from license fees for industrial and semi-industrial vessels
has been recorded since the project began. Total revenue from license fees has increased dramatically from
69.0 million cedis in 1996 to 1,190 million cedis by June 2002, following the revision of license fees during
project implementation to reflect the type of catch.

Various training programs and technical assistance provided by the project has enabled the DoF to develop
the skills and potential of its staff. These include study tours, short-term technical training, and
post-graduate level training at the Master's and PhD levels to update skills and knowledge in fisheries
management. Aquaculture production systems and extension studies in Thailand were applied in designing
the pilot aquaculture center in the Ashanti Region. The Directorate has also acquired some capacity in
fisheries resource monitoring and management, acoustic surveys, oceanographic studies, resource
management planning for both marine and inland water bodies, shell fisheries and culture, post harvest fish
handling including tools for quality assurance and fish technology. DoF has also mounted an extensive
training of fishermen, fish farmers and processors as well as other stakeholders in the industry. Fishermen
in the coastal villages have reported that training given by the DoF in safety at sea, among a range of other
topics, helped to save the lives of some members in the community during dangerous incidences at sea.

The recruitment of new staff experienced some setbacks. Although the DoF recruited an additional 23 staff
for its various divisions, the total number (256) remained insufficient to carry out all the functions
envisaged under the SAR. The scope and range of such activities as monitoring, control, and surveillance
(MCS), i.e., effective conduct of all maritime and land-based marine fisheries MCS operations,
enforcement of fisheries legislation on lakes and marine, gathering of fisheries intelligence, and maintenance
of a centralized statistical base covering the full extent of industrial and inshore fishing operations, proved
too demanding for the limited number of staff available and were not carried out with greater frequency. In
addition, the recruitment and posting of DoF staff coincided with the decentralization of the Ministry of
Food and Agriculture (MOFA) and the creation of regional and district agricultural development units
(RADUS and DADUs). The DoF lost some of its trained staff when fisheries officers were redesignated
and assigned to non-fisheries related tasks. Five professional staff were transferred to RADUS and


                                                      - 5 -

DADUs to perform administrative duties. The transition created communication problems in data and
information transmitted from the field to the DoF, and difficulties in the enforcement of the fisheries laws.

Fifteen out of 20 residential units, and six out of nine offices have been constructed or rehabilitated. The
DoF headquarters building, however, did not materialize because the DoF delayed in procuring suitable
land for the site and when this was done, MOFA decided to construct a composite building for all
directorates rather than each directorate being housed separately.

Overall, the project has made it possible for the DoF, a previously marginalized department, to be better
prepared to play an important role in the development and management of the fisheries subsector in Ghana.



Component 2: Marine Fisheries Management

The performance under this component is rated satisfactory since most of the physical targets have been
met and the main objectives achieved.

The DoF research vessel for data collection, M.V. Kakadiama, was never refurbished because the cost of
the repairs far exceeded the amount originally estimated at appraisal. The vessel had deteriorated further by
1997 and the Ministry decided to explore alternative means of data collection. This caused initial delays in
data collection and the development of the fisheries management plan. As an alternative to operating its
own research vessel, MOFA relied on data gathered from eight coastal stations for temperature and water
salinity readings, and on assessments of demersal and pelagic fishery resources carried out with the help of
donor agencies including the two FAO sponsored "Dr. Fridjof Nansen Survey Programmes" (NORAD,
Institute of Marine Research, and FAO) in 1999 and 2000, and one Gulf of Guinea Large Marine
Ecosystem Survey. In addition, a survey of fisheries resources on the continental shelf of Ghana was
carried out over a two and half year period with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the
agency which implements the Government of Japan's technical cooperation programs.                 The Marine
Fisheries Research Division (MFRD) also collaborates on the Tuna Resources Study funded by the
International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna (ICCAT). On land, the division
collaborates with commercial fishermen to study their catch for length/frequency distribution and maturity
of varieties of fish, or on samples purchased from the artisanal and inshore fleet.

The marine fisheries management plan which has been approved by the Minister of State in 2001 and is
being implemented, contained data from surveys conducted by the research vessel in 1981/82, and in 1990,
updated with data collected in the programs mentioned above. Implementation of the fisheries management
plan, however, is being carried out with some difficulty. The political will to enforce aspects of the plan
such as banning of all trawlers including shrimpers from fishing within the 30 meter depth zone, imposing
closed seasons for fishing, banning of beach seining at estuaries, enforcing stricter minimum mesh size
regulations, and discontinuing the issuing of permits for trawlers is lacking.

One of the key successes of the project is in soliciting the involvement of the artisanal fishing communities
along the coast through the formation of community-based fisheries management committees (CBFMCs).
DoF, using a participatory approach with village traditional authorities established preventive enforcement
mechanisms to comply with the Fisheries Law at the community level. Out of the 173 fishing communities
visited, about 133 CBFMCs have been formed along the coast and their constitutions and by-laws passed
and adopted by their District Assemblies (DAs). This is an important step in establishing a legal basis for
the CBFMCs to operate. The communities have been empowered to enforce rules and regulations designed
to protect their fisheries resources and some communities have expanded on those rules to cover beach


                                                      - 6 -

sanitation regulations. A major achievement of the CBMFCs is the complete elimination of dynamite use in
marine fisheries. DoF launched an energetic awareness campaign at the beginning of the project through
workshops and rallies with fishing villages covering 300 landing sites as well as holding meetings with all
major stakeholders including NGOs to discuss involvement in the formation of CBFMCs and in the
management of fisheries resources. The initiative was received with much enthusiasm by the local
authorities and some DAs even financed aspects of the program.                  As a result, artisanal fishing
communities, and in particular their traditional leaders, have developed the capacity to formulate and adopt
constitutions with stringent by-laws, obtain legal backing from DAs in enforcing the laws through
organized surveillance, and holding tribunals to impose fines on offenders. In a number of cases,
communities have also included measures to enforce sanitation along the beaches and banning children
under 14 years of age from beaches during school days. In others, the CBFMCs have inspected fishing nets
for compliance with certain mesh sizes.          However, formation of CBFMCs in larger towns with a
heterogenous migrant population have not been successful.

In the marine sector, two canoe frame surveys were completed showing a 16 percent increase in number
from 8,610 canoes in 1997 to 9,981 canoes in 2001. Thus in spite of the danger of decline in fish stocks,
there is an increasing pressure on the resources, exacerbating the problem. The slow enforcement of
Fisheries Laws did not help resolve the situation quickly. The compliance rate of canoe owners embossing
their registration markings on their vessels was low, prompting some CBFMCs to consider linking the
inscription of markings to the purchase of pre-mixed fuel to remedy the situation. Furthermore, objections
from the Navy to the original markings meant that a new system had to be worked out and new registration
numbers distributed and embossed on the canoes. Imposing licensing fees for canoes has not been carried
out because of strong opposition from canoe operators and the lack of political will.

Component 3: Inland Fisheries Management

This component is rated satisfactory. A canoe frame and gear survey was conducted between 1998 and
1999, with a final report produced in Feb. 2000 for Volta Lake. This was an impressive accomplishment
for the DoF given that the surface area covered was about 8,700 sq. km., with a lake perimeter of 5,200
km, and the identification of a total of 1,232 villages along the Volta Lake with 24,032 different types of
fishing motorized and non-motorized planked canoes and boats, and a total of 71,856 fishermen. Of the
villages identified, about 20 percent of them lie along the shoreline most difficult to access on the east bank
of Lake Volta. From the survey, four important maps were developed to help manage the fisheries
resources: fishing villages, fishing villages by substrata, fishing villages and administrative districts and
regions, and Volta Lake and land use overlay to some 20km from the Lake.

A stock assessment of Volta Lake consisting of biological studies and catch assessment was completed in
2001. Data gathered from these studies were used to develop a Volta Lake Fisheries Management Plan
which included proposals for six projects. The plan is being reviewed by the FC.

However, the establishment of CBFMCs around the Volta Lake, with the exception of three districts in
Brong Ahafo, was not successful, particularly in the regions bordering the lake in Eastern and Volta
regions. Kintampo, Sene, and Atebubu districts in Brong Ahafo region, showed considerable interest and
commitment to the establishment of CBFMCs and have successfully stopped fishermen within the districts
from using harmful bamboo fishing gear, but migrant communities along the Volta Lake challenged the
authority of the traditional chiefs to enforce fisheries laws. Fishermen believed that the lake is managed by
the Volta River Authority (VRA) and that no other authority has legal or administrative authority over the
lake contour line. It was difficult, therefore, for some traditional authorities to assist in the formation of the
committees. Power also to pass by-laws empowering traditional authorities to ensure conservation


                                                      - 7 -

measures are observed rests with the DA. Other constraints to the successful formation of CBMFCs were:
(a) that some district directors consider fisheries outside their area of interest/responsibility, (b) the lack of
uniform enforcement of the fisheries laws by some districts leading to a mistaken impression that some
district chief executives have decided to enforce the law themselves, and (c) the police appears unfamiliar
with the Fisheries Law.

Development of the Pilot Aquaculture Center began slowly due to the inability of DoF to identify a suitable
site, slow preparation of the designs and the poor performance by the contractor. Promotion of aquaculture
was carried out with the assistance of an NGO to interact with farmers. MOFA staff to help form fish
farmers' associations, and the Water Resources Institute (WRI) in conducting a training program for
selected fish farmers in fingerling production.

Following the Mid-Term Review, a draft National Aquaculture Policy was prepared for the establishment
of national development strategies for aquaculture as well as for input to a follow-up Bank project, the
Agriculture Subsector Investment Program (AGSSIP). These are contained in "Strategic Considerations
Towards Preparation of Aquaculture Development for AGSSIP." The report cited the main constraints to
aquaculture development including: lack of records and available information, a high breakeven point
making marketing of farm-raised fish difficult, lack of credit, inputs required which are beyond the
limitations of most producers or potential producers, lack of appropriate extension messages, and lack of
applied, adaptive research.

In order to address the constraints above, an aquaculture strategy was prepared and is being implemented
in eight pilot districts. Training programs and reference materials have been introduced to build the
capacity of agriculture extension agents, fish farmers, and the public at large, on pond construction and fish
health technology. The Pilot Aquaculture Center in Tano Odumase was completed and handed over to the
DOF in April 2002. Substantial amount of tilapia and catfish fingerlings destined for distribution to
farmers in the middle belt of the country is under production. The production level of the hatchery is
expected to be 3 million tilapia and 1.2 million catfish fingerlings. The expected level of demand for tilapia
is estimated at 4 million and for catfish 400,000 per year; the level of demand is expected to created a
market to attract private sector investment or management.

One interesting development involved the Australian mining company, Resolute Amancie, Ltd., doing
surface gold mining in the Ashanti region. As part of the social responsibility of the company, it has
supported community initiatives with aquaculture materials, stock, and fertilizers for their farms, as well as
supplying planting material (such as citronella, some tree crops) and teak seedlings to reclaim the land
being mined.

Component 4: Monitoring, Control and Surveillance

This component is rated unsatisfactory. The objective of this component -- to create a new, functional and
active unit to monitor, control and conduct surveillance in marine and lake fisheries was partially achieved
since the Monitoring, Control and Surveillance Division (MCSD) was established for the very first time in
the history of fisheries resource management in the country.

Until the beginning of 1997 the MCSD's performance was limited to collecting some statistics on catches
and neither the DoF nor the police were effective in enforcing the existing fisheries regulations. Once
counterpart funds became available under the project, however, the DoF contracted the navy and in
conjunction with the MCSD organized a joint patrol program and began to regularly enforce the fishing
regulations in the marine sector and Volta Lake systems. The joint patrols started well until eventually the


                                                      - 8 -

navy began to carry out its own patrols and submitting bills for the patrols for payment by the project. By
July 2001, the outstanding bill was more than 239 million cedis. The cost per trip charged by the Navy
climbed higher as it was revised upwards from year to year. As a result, it became too expensive for the
DoF to bear and the joint patrol ship days were reduced. By the end of 2001, the project had completed
about 22 percent of the target estimated by the SAR (i.e., 65 out of 300). The SAR target of 60 ship days
per year was overly optimistic. Nevertheless, coastal fishermen did confirm that the frequency of industrial
vessels fishing at less than the 30 meter depth has declined since these patrols began and seizures of illegal
fishing gear among other infractions have served well in establishing a stronger Government authority
presence in the area.

The MCSD has made achievements in other areas. An observer program has been established to monitor
compliance and scientific monitoring with the collaboration of commercial fishing vessels, and MCSD staff
are conducting periodic port inspection and beach combing exercises as part of their monitoring duties.
Local enforcement in the marine sector is functioning well and is being carried out with the enthusiastic
collaboration of artisanal fishermen and their CBFMCs, as well as with other associations whose members
can spot and report offender vessels to the DoF officers. A technical committee has been established to
help coordinate the activities of all stakeholders whose normal duties contribute to the prevention of
enforcement of the Fisheries Law, and the Command and Control/Operational Center has been established
at Tema and is communicating with fishing vessels at sea and with the Navy. A request has also been made
for a dedicated frequency with which to communicate exclusively with the Navy for law enforcement
purposes.

In the Volta Lake area, the MCSD carried out two lake patrols in conjunction with the Navy which resulted
in seizures of illegal fishing gears. The performance in this area has been modest but could have been better
had the project been able to purchase more patrol boats to carry out the patrols at sea and on the lake. The
amount allocated to the purchase of three patrol boats in the SAR was grossly inadequate and prices
quoted for one vessel was three times the amount allocated for all three vessels. Enforcement in the Volta
Lake areas was also difficult for the MCSD for the following reasons: (a) most fishermen in the the lake
are migrants, the authority within the fishermen communities in the area rests essentially with the
paramount chiefs and is delegated to divisional chiefs and finally to the village headman; and (c) the
incidence of offenses (and their effect on fish stocks) is much more widespread here than in the marine
sector; (d) the limited staff and limited resources available with which to carry out surveillance and
enforcement activities over a large area; and (e) political intereference. MCS's strategy will be to convince
the paramount and district chief executives of the urgent need to enforce existing laws and regulations.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

A full economic analysis was carried out at project appraisal. At a discount rate of 12 percent, the project
was estimated to produce a NPV of US$28.1 million for the minimum expected recovery, that of demersal
fisheries. With the recovery of all fisheries, the project was estimated to yield a NPV of US$80.2 million
with a corresponding economic rate of return estimated in the SAR of 44.8 percent for demersal fish and
80.2 percent for all fisheries. However, sufficient data, especially that of operating costs for each type of
catch, was not available by the time of the ICR mission and the data that was available was not sufficient
to provide an adequate base for a thorough economic and financial analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The financial analysis in the SAR was based on four representative aquaculture farm models for which the
following IRR were estimated:



                                                     - 9 -

         (a) integrated fish-vegetable-cassava farm; IRR 66.0%;
         (b) fish/rice farm model; IRR 45.4%;
         (c) pure fish farm model; IRR 52.6'%;
         (d) fingerlings production farm model; estimated IRR 114%.

The aquaculture farm models were not applied in farm practice since the technical design was not
well-suited to local production practices. The project supported several fish pond construction projects but
not production itself so that it was not possible to determine whether production was successful and
profitable. This is due to the fact that construction of ponds began much later in the project life which did
not allow for sufficient time to monitor production outcome.

At appraisal, the fiscal impact of the project on public revenues and expenditures were estimated based on
license fees and fisheries royalty levies on gross landed value of fish. It was also estimated that fiscal
revenue from royalties would increase to about US$0.8 million. The project was designed to transfer some
of the incremental private financial benefits to the public sector through registration and licensing of
vessels, increased levies, and improved collection efforts. The license fee increased considerably from 1998
to 1999, about four times over the previous years. However, it declined in the following two years before
increasing again in the year 2000. The total amount of license fees collected from 1998 to 2002 was Cedis
3,077 million (about US$892,000), and the framework for charging levies based on GLV was put in place,
but implementation proved difficult, and as a consequence, data on the levies were insufficient to evaluate
its impact on the Government's fiscal system at this time.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated as "modest" for a number of reasons explained below. While the
changes made were substantial, sustainability of these changes would depend very much on the follow up
and this is the main reason we rate the institutional development impact "modest" rather than "substantial."

· Community Impact, CBFMCs ­ The project has developed the capacity of communities by providing,
through the DoF, extensive training for fishermen, fish farmers, fish processors and other stakeholders in
the industry, in awareness raising, group formation, development of by-laws and legal processes, sea safety
and other technical training made available through DoF's mobile schools. CBFMCs are now empowered
and capable of monitoring their fisheries resources, as well as generating funds through imposing fines to
maintain their operations.

· Department of Fisheries (DoF) ­ the reorganized department is professional and functional and is
having a positive impact on the fisheries subsector. Staff morale is higher than before the project, and
training and technical assistance has raised the level of staff qualification and experience as well as
increased the number of staff for the department. The reorganization has streamlined the department and
more clearly defined the functions of the various divisions. It has acquired an increased technical capacity
to better develop and manage the fisheries resources in Ghana, and through interaction and training
programs, built a collaborative relationship with various key stakeholders who have a direct role to play in
the management of those resources. Continued follow up, however, would be required under the AgSSIP to
ensure that appropriate leadership is exercised by the DoF.

· Ministry of Food and Agriculture - has been empowered with a more comprehensive Fisheries Law and
a better organized DoF structure with which to develop and manage the subsector. The establishment of an
MCS unit and technical committee will enhance collaboration with other government departments, namely,
the Navy, Air Force, DOF, Immigration Service, Customs, Ports and Harbours Authority, Police, and the


                                                     - 10 -

ministries of Finance, Justice, Foreign Affairs, Health, and Roads and Transport, all of whom have
nominated representatives to the unit.

· Fisheries Subsector ­ awareness in the industry has been created regarding the depletion of resources
and its impact; legal sanctions have been instated; voluntary compliance is evident at the national level
(harbour nets used are now regular type), foreign crew composition limits are observed; general increase in
funds has been generated for the Government from licensing fees and fines.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Underestimation of the costs for refurbishing the research vessel and the patrol boats, and further
deterioration of the research vessel by the second year of the project slowed implementation and delayed
decision-making as alternative solutions had to be found.

Unreliable contractors hired for the construction of the pilot aquaculture center delayed the completion of
the center. Poor reporting and delays in submitting drawings and bill of quantities by consultants for the
construction and rehabilitation of staff accommodation and office facilities created delays in procurement.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The parliamentary and presidential election campaign in the year 2000 and the subsequent change in
Government slowed down implementation, resulted in the revised fisheries bill which was previously
approved by the Cabinet being withdrawn, and affected the establishement of the MCS unit and fund which
could not be established earlier. Implementation of the marine fisheries management plans also stalled as a
result of the change in government. Project management was improving in the middle of the project period
but slackened periodically due to excessive political pressure to compromise on tough decisions. The
sector is subject to political interference in decision making.

The decentralization of MOFA affected the functions of the DoF when it lost some of its trained fisheries
professional staff who were reassigned to administrative and non-fisheries posts. The MCS dedicated
Naval Patrols began well but dwindled so that by 2002 no patrols were conducted at all because of unpaid
bills to the Navy.     Penalties from violations and arrests were not ploughed back to support MCS
operations. As a result, enforcement at sea suffered.

Inadequate and untimely release of counterpart fund contributions created delays in implementation and
affected timely reimbursements for project expenditures and affected civil works contruction and settlement
of unpaid bills such as for the Navy patrols. Contributions averaged 45 percent of the amount requested
and by the year 2001 had been reduced to none.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Lack of collaboration between different divisions of the DoF and MOFA, and a less than committed
leadership in decision-making during part of          the project's implementation period resulted in wasted
resources, e.g., the refusal to end non-performing consultant contracts, the delays in finding alternatives to
the research vessel refurbishment, and equipment useful for the MCS functions were not transferred to the
MCS division but kept in storage.




                                                       - 11 -

Also, although the PCU of MOFA was staffed with officers who have previously received Bank
procurement training, substantial delays still occurred in the preparation of bidding documents because it
did not receive technical information on specialist equipment on time from the DoF. Procurement of goods
and services also lagged due to the slow procedures adopted by the PCU and due to inadequate consultation
with the DoF.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Actual total project costs were US$8.37 million compared with the appraisal estimate of US$10.50 million.
Government contributions amounted to Cedis 1,857 million or about US$0.62 million equivalent compared
to an estimated amount of US$1.50 million at appraisal. As of March 25, 2003 IDA's contribution totaled
US$7.75 million (SDR 5.76 million) compared to the appraisal estimate of US$9.00 million (SDR 6.20
million). The credit is almost fully disbursed at 92.68 percent. An undisbursed balance of US$602,498
(SDR442,197) was cancelled after the project closed on December 31, 2002.           The closing date for the
credit was extended twice, the first extension was for one year to June 30, 2002 and a second extension was
granted for Category 1 (Vehicles and Equipment) to December 31, 2002.                   The rate of project
implementation, as indicated by the rate of disbursements, lagged behind appraisal estimates by about 9.8
percent. Funds under Category 5 for vessel rehabilitation which was never used was reallocated to other
categories.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Overall, the project has created a public awareness of the critical state of fisheries resources, and at the
community level has empowered those stakeholders to organize and take legal action to protect the limited
natural resources. The capacity of Government agencies has also been strengthened, and at both the
community and government agencies levels, they have demonstrated their administrative, financial, and
technical capability to operate and manage their activities and facilities. The project, as such, established
the legal, administrative, and institutional basis, and laid the foundation for futher investment in the
sub-sector.

However, sustainability is rated as unlikely under the current circumstances. Lack of political will to
enforce regulations and remedial measures, the weak leadership provided by the DoF, and the problems of
collaboration, unless resolved, will contihnue to hamper reforms and limit achievements of future
operations. Consequently, the project can be considered to constitute a first phase of a longer-term effort in
the sub-sector.

DoF's operations are currently funded under the AgSSIP adaptable program loan which is currently
implementing its first phase. To ensure longer-term sustainability, however, license fees for Ghana in the
future will need to include canoes and mechanized fleets and be raised to a level comparable to other
countries'. Presently, license fees charged in Ghana are one percent of Gross Landed Value. License fees
charged for similar fisheries elsewhere in the world are charged at the rate of about five percent of the total
catch. The project has put in place the mechanisms and structure for continuing monitoring, control and
surveillance work and the composition of the MCS unit will enlist the collaboration of other Government
departments in the enforcement of fisheries regulations. Specialized equipment and an operational/control
center designed for monitoring and surveillance work (communications equipment, GPS) have developed
the capacity of the MCS division enabling it to communicate with ships, and use GPS equipment to locate
vessels fishing in prohibited zones without displacing its staff. However, since MCS activities such as



                                                    - 12 -

surveillance can be expensive, the MCS unit will need to continue searching for cost effective alternatives.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

A comprehensive MCS strategy for the country is under preparation to address the issues of fisheries
resources management and monitoring. Under the revised Fisheries Law, the Government has constituted
an MCS unit and a technical committee which will include, by law, representatives from key public
institutions implicated in the sub-sector: the Navy, the Air force, the DoF, the Immigration Service,
Customs, Ports and Harbours Authority, the Police, and the ministries of Finance, Justice, Foreign Affairs,
Roads and Transport, and Health. This measure was taken to render the MCS unit more authoritative and
enhance collaboration and cooperation between different public institutions.

The DoF prepared plans for its continuing operations and submitted them for financing under the AgSSIP,
the main instrument for implementing the Accelerated Agricultural Growth and Development Strategy
designed to increase the pace of the sector's annual growth in line with the goals of GoG's Vision 2020.
Under AgSSIP, an opportunity will be provided for enhancing and implementing the fisheries management
plans and enforcing the revised Fisheries Law. Provisions will also be made for data collection and research
as well as support for some of DoF's activities and the MCS functions.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance from identification to appraisal was satisfactory. Project preparation was carried
out jointly with FAO/CP with an adequate number of specialists providing the technical skills mix
necessary to address concerns. The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar
amount to ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the CAS and
Government priorities in the sector at the time and was consistent with the Bank's environmental protection
and safeguards strategies. It incorporated lessons from previous projects by building in the institutional
strengthening objectives lacking in earlier projects and concentrated on management of fisheries resources
through monitorable measures. However, it could have built in a stronger support for developing the
capacity for research. The project benefited from strong Government ownership having been prepared by
the Government and its agencies, with enthusiastic participation from local authorities and communities.

The SAR could have set realistic targets more in line with the low implementation capacity of the
implementing agencies, particularly in light of the fact that the sector is already classified as risky. For
example, the MCSD employs eight full-time staff, yet, as described by the SAR, they was responsible for
extensive duties, including the enforcement of fisheries legislation, gathering of fisheries intelligence, and
the maintenance of a centralized statistical base covering the full extent of industrial and inshore fishing
operations.

The composition and structure of the MCS division contravened the provisions of the old Fisheries Law
and subsequently prompted contention by the Fisheries Commission (FC) which caused further delays in
the passage of the revised law. The DoF's staffing capacity now totals 256 staff, of which 199 are in the
regional/district offices, leaving 11 at headquarters, 29 in the Marine Research Division, and nine for the
Inland Division. The total number of professional staff is less than estimated at appraisal (357 with



                                                    - 13 -

project).

Risks.     The SAR correctly identified the financial risks and institutional risks. Shortage of counterpart
funds occurred during most of the life of the project and the weaknesses in collaboration and cooperation
between the different Government departments affected implementation for some time. What the project
did not foresee, however, was the impact of the change in Government and the presidential election
campaign on the passage of the Fisheries Law, nor did it foresee the effects on staffing of DoF as a result
of MOFA's decentralization.

The mitigation measures featured in the project at the time of SAR included a major component focussing
on rectification of the institutional weaknesses, estimation of additional public revenue to be generated
through recovery of fisheries resources, training and technical assistance and other institution-building
activities included up-front in project design, and joint IDA and Borrower annual review of implementation
to   identify   problems    and   solutions.   Biological   risks were   checked    through    environmental
quality-enhancement features, and protection of spawning grounds, establishment of fishing gear and mesh
standards were used to further project resources. As to the possible shortage of counterpart funds, the
Government assured that this was a short-term problem which did not reflect on the sector's priority and
that it intended to allocate the necessary counterpart resources needed in the future budgets. During project
implementation, funding for the division should have come, not so much from the budget of the DoF, but
from the license fees and levies on catch value, and some funds were generated for the MCS from these fees
and levies, particularly when they were revised upwards. Although the Bank supervision team worded
strong reminders to the Government of the shortage of counterpart fund contributions and reiterated
recommendations for changes to improve coordination, the Bank did not follow up more focefully with the
Government because it demonstrated its commitment to the protection and development of the sub-sector,
which, together with achievements accomplished under other project objectives, were not perceived by the
Bank as critical threats to the project's success.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory and was carried out on a regular basis and the
skills mix for the site visits adequate for addressing the implementation issues. The Bank utilized FAO
expertise in fisheries in the supervision of the project. The Bank issued firm recommendations for
improvement with regular follow-up after formal supervision missions. However, the mission teams could
have received more guidance from management in handling some of the more difficult issues of
coordination and collaboration once project performance rating began to fluctuate between a problem and
non-problem project earlier in the implementation period.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout the project period, from preparation to
supervision, there was adequate resources and skills mix to monitor progress.          Technical input was
provided when needed and mission follow-up intensified when problems surfaced.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance at preparation was satisfactory. The project was developed by the
Government with the active participation of implementing agencies. The Bank preparation mission team



                                                     - 14 -

noted that the local team provided comprehensive documentation which facilitated the preparation work for
FAO/CP and the Bank. Many local institutions provided input which contributed to project preparation
including: the Ghana Navy, in charge of enforcement of the fisheries legislation, the Air Force, the Volta
River Authority, the Ghana Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), the Institute of
Renewable Natural Resources of the Kumasi University, Tema Ports Authority, various NGOs,
professional associations of the fishing industry and private fishing and fish processing companies. A
workshop to present findings was well attended by GoG and private sector representatives and received
positive coverage from the media.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government of Ghana's performance was marginally satisfactory to unsatisfactory. Delays in the passage
of the revised Fisheries Law (December 2001) slowed down project implementation and created
impediments to effective enforcement of fisheries regulations, particularly for the MCSD whose mandate
was dependent on the legal endorsement. The main factors leading to these delays were related to the
change in Government in the country, and:          (a) the challenge by the Fisheries Commission on the
constitutionality of some aspects of the Law; (b) the frequent Ministerial changes at the MOFA; (c) the
lack of commitment by project management in keeping the momentum to ensure the passage of the revised
Law; and (d) lack of political will to enforce tough decisions. Counterpart fund contributions received
throughout the life of the project were not only irregular but also did not match the amount requested.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the DoF is satisfactory since it achieved most of the project objectives and physical
targets towards the end of the project even though project start-up experienced many problems. However,
certain institutional issues remain to be resolved. Management of the DoF has improved but still lack a
common vision and cohesion between the various divisional heads, each of whom operated independently
from the other. Law enforcement and prosecution of offenders is still weak due to a shortage of staff with
which to conduct full monitoring and surveillance, legal backing with which to prosecute offenders, and a
strong political will and commitment to implement the management plans well.

Audits. Most audits were submitted unqualified and on time. On one occasion the project did not comply
with the fiduciary requirements in submitting the audit report for the year ended 1999, which was also
submitted late. The report contained an "exception" qualified opinion because the title Deeds of the office
and residential accommodation as well as the pilot aquaculture center were absent, and the auditors claimed
that they were uncertain on the costs of the assets. A management letter was sent to the project unit with
recommendations for action.

Compliance with Legal Covenants. Most of the covenants were complied with but experienced the
following shortfalls: (a) the long delay in getting the revised Fisheries Law passed through Parliament and
the equally long delays in the preparation of management plans (b) the rehabilitation of the fisheries
research vessel which was not carried out, (c) the incomplete construction and rehabilitation of the DoF's
offices, (d) not providing a review of experience on the increase of fisheries levies, the related
recommendations, and the implementation of those recommendations. The Bank has received assurance that
these will now be furnished during the course of implementing AgSSIP.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Borrower prepared the project with strong



                                                     - 15 -

ownership and implemented the projects reaching most of the targets set within a demanding set of
activities and initiatives. Although the staffing of the DoF was small for the range of activities it was to
cover, it was very successful in implementing such initiatives as the CBFMCs and resourceful in finding
alternatives to collecting research fisheries data to formulate management plans.


8. Lessons Learned

·        Success in formation of CBFMCs depended on whether the communities were established or
transient, and on the degree of collaboration and cooperation between DoF, MOFA, and the DAs in lending
support to the communities to formulate management committees.

·        Although the limited capacity of the DoF was correctly ascertained at appraisal, the project
designed was still complex, large and contained too many activities.

·        The aquaculture pilot component was begun too late in the project to enable experience to be
accumulated and reviewed. Technical, economic, commercial and socio-cultural data to support its
development needed to be done before project implementation, not during. An analysis will need to be done
to determine the pilot centers' environmental impact and potential for attracting private sector investment
before determining if they should move beyond the pilot scheme status.

·        Mitigation measures should have been more strongly built into project design and adjusted during
implementation in a more forceful manner to offset the main risks to anticipated benefits which were
institutional, financial, and biological.

·        An efficient monitoring and evaluation system as well as earlier implementation of the fisheries
management plans would have benefitted the project's outcome and improved its impact. It also would have
provided earlier lessons which could have been incorporated during the project's implementation.

·        The critical role that fisheries research plays in the management of limited resources suggests that
it could have received more support for development and expansion under the project. In the future, more
consideration will need to be given to how the various segments of the fishing sector could contribute to
funding and monitoring of fisheries research.

·        Institutional strengthening and developing the capacity to manage natural resources are long-term
objectives. Although the project laid the groundwork for these goals to be met, continued efforts will need
to be made over the longer term beyond the project implementation period.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


    The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a fair assessment of the Fisheries Sub-sector Capacity
    Building Project (FSCBP). The borrower/implementing agency agrees with the assertion that
    institutional strengthening and developing the capacity to manage natural resources such as fisheries
    are long term objectives.

    The project, as rightly stated, has constituted a first phase of a longer-term effort to protect and



                                                      - 16 -

    conserve the now limited fisheries resources. Continued effort needs to be made over a longer period to
    consolidate the gains made under the project.

    The borrower gives assurances that Government will ensure the enforcement of regulations and
    remedial measures to sustain the Fishing Industry.

    There were frequent changes in leadership during the project life. However Government will also
    ensure that strong and effective leadership is provided by the Fisheries Directorate to work towards a
    strategic vision. The government will further ensure collaboration and co-operation with other
    Government Agencies, Departments and Non Governmental Organisations to enhance reforms in the
    Fisheries Sub-Sector.

    As the report pointed out in 3.2, the parliamentary and presidential election campaign in the year 2000
    and subsequent change in Government, among others, affected the establishment of the MCS Unit and
    the Technical Committee. The project did not foresee the impact of the change in Government on the
    institution of these mechanisms and structures. These structures are to be established immediately after
    the Fisheries Commission has been reconstituted according to the Fisheries Act 625 of 2002. As a
    technical secretariat to this Commission more staff will be recruited to strengthen it for better
    performance.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Removal of continental shelf of distant water Partially accomplished.                This has been largely accomplished through
trawlers                                                                             increased naval patrols
Community participation in Fisheries          Community Management Committees formed Community management committees have
Management                                    in Central and Western Regions         been formed in all the coastal fishing
                                                                                     communities
Fish production:                                                                     As of 2001:
 - Tuna                                       51,000 tons                            122,263 tons
 - Demersals                                  55,000 tons                            75,035 tons
 - Inland                                     45,000 tons
 - Crustacean                                 1,500 tons                             1,856 tons
 - Aquaculture                                2,000 farms                            n.a.

Revision of Fisheries Law                     Accomplished.                          Fisheries Law passed through Parliament
                                                                                     end 2001.
Navy MCS                                      Delayed                                Delayed
Increase levies on non-canoe fleet            Levies increased to $2/GRT             Levies increased to 1% of GLV and $5/GRT
Management Plan Strategy                      Completed                              Completed for Volta Lake and Marine
Annual Fisheries Levies Generated             cedis 546.1 million                    cedis 995.2 million as of 05/02


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Reorganization of DoF                         100% complete.                         100% complete.
Appointment of additional DoF staff           23 additional staff recruited          23 additional staff recruited. Total staff 256.
Appointment of DoF Managers                   Done                                   Done
Registration of canoe fleets                  Partially Completed                    Completed for both Volta Lake and Coastal
                                                                                     areas.
Licensing of canoe fleets                     In process.                            Not completed due to strong resistance from
                                                                                     canoe owners.
Construction of aquaculture fingerling center In progress                            Completed in Tano Odumase.
Consultant Contracts on:
Fisheries Management
MCS
Aquaculture
Accountant
Auditor


1End of project




                                                                  - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal       Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                               Estimate         Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million      US$ million
Strengthening of the Department of Fisheries                      4.39               5.29           116

Marine Fisheries Management                                       2.10               0.90            40

Inland Fisheries Management                                       1.39               1.47            82

Monitoring, Control and Surveillance                              1.71               0.64            35


Total Baseline Cost                                               9.59               8.30
 Physical Contingencies                                           0.32               0.02             8
 Price Contingencies                                              0.60               0.05             8
                          Total Project Costs                   10.51                8.37
                   Total Financing Required                     10.51                8.37


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                   2         N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                             0.00            2.61             0.00            0.00        2.61
                                    (0.00)           (2.48)          (0.00)           (0.00)     (2.48)
2. Goods                             1.61            0.00             0.33            0.00        1.94
                                    (1.61)           (0.00)          (0.33)           (0.00)     (1.94)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00             0.56            0.00        0.56
Consultants                         (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.56)           (0.00)     (0.56)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00             1.76            0.00        1.76
Training                            (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.76)           (0.00)     (1.76)
5. Incremental Operating             0.00            0.00             2.20            0.00        2.20
Expenses                            (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.88)           (0.00)     (1.88)
6. Vessel Rehabilitation             0.00            0.00             1.43            0.00        1.43
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.38)           (0.00)     (0.38)
    Total                            1.61            2.61             6.28            0.00       10.50
                                    (1.61)           (2.48)          (4.91)           (0.00)     (9.00)
Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the IDA credit. Totals include contingencies




                                                  - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               1.61              0.00             0.00              1.61
                                          (0.00)             (1.53)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.53)
   2. Goods                                1.49                                 0.68             0.00              2.17
                                          (1.49)               ()              (0.68)            (0.00)           (2.17)
   3. Services                                                0.00              0.95             0.00              0.95
   Consultants                               ()              (0.00)            (0.95)            (0.00)           (0.95)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              1.12             0.00              1.12
   Training                               (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.12)            (0.00)           (1.12)
   5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              2.52             0.00              2.52
   Expenses                               (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.98)            (0.00)           (1.98)
   6. Vessel Rehabilitation                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               1.49               1.61              5.27             0.00              8.37
                                          (1.49)             (1.53)            (4.73)            (0.00)           (7.75)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Strengthening of the           4.23         0.16                     5.13         0.19                  121.3    118.8
Department of Fisheries
Marine Fisheries               1.98         0.11                     0.86         0.05                  43.4      45.5
Management
Inland fisheries               1.27         0.12                     1.15         0.05                  90.6      41.7
Management
Monitoring, Control and        1.71         1.05                     0.61         0.33                  35.7      31.4
Surveillance (MCS)




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The full economic and financial analysis carried out during the project appraisal estimated the economic
rate of return for demersal fish at 44.8 percent and 80.2 percent for all fisheries at full recovery of fisheries.
However, since the data for the analysis, especially data on operating costs for each type of catch was not
available at project completion, a full economic analysis could not be carried out and the economic rate of
return based on actual data could not be calculated.

The key objective of the project was to establish the long-term sustainability of the fisheries resource base
so as to maximize its contribution to the economy. The strengthening of the DoF's capacity, including
upgrading the staff's knowledge and skills and improving the management system will improve the sector's
future performance. In this case, the economic benefit would be measured by quantity of fish catch and
sustainable amount of resource stock. Based on the data provided by the project unit, the marine catch
increased in the first project year by more than 12 percent but dropped to four percent the following year.
In 1998 and 1999, the catch continued to drop significantly. In 2000, the catch started recovering with an
increase of 14 percent and this trend continued during 2001. For sustainable development and sound
management of marine fisheries resources, the recent marine fisheries management plan has been
formulated under the project and approved by the government. As the plan gets implemented the level of
marine catch should stabilize.

The inland fishery production has been increasing steadily at an average of eight percent from 1995 to
1999. However, in 2000, it dropped to 5.5 percent, with inland fishery production, and river and dam fish
catch declining faster than that of the Volta Lake. Since no data for the subsequent years were available, it
it cannot be determined whether this implies a declning fish stock. However, since the Volta Lake Fisheries
Management Plan has been developed and a stock assessment of Volta Lake has been carried out, the
prospects are likely that Volta Lake will reach sustainable development of its fishery resources. The data
provided shows that the incremental catch of Volta Lake has reached the levels estimated at project
appraisal. This suggests that fishery stock assessment and management plans for rivers should also be
developed. Fish pond production has also been increasing at a steady pace and the demand for fingerlings is
high. Current hatcheries are not able to meet the demand indicating a good prospect for future support or
investment in this area.

The data on fish prices show an increasing trend in the last decade, providing an incentive for fishermen to
increase their catch in order to increase economic benefits. On the other hand, this incentive would result in
a worse depletiohn of fish resources if Government policy and control instruments are not in place.

Import/export. Fish import/export data fluctuated indicating that export remained at around 5,000 tons per
year, declining to 4,000 tons in 1999, then increased dramatically to 10,000 tons in the year 2000. Fish
import increased by almost tree times since 1999 compared to previous years'. Increased import levels
normally would increase import duty and contribute to government revenues derived from the fisheries
sub-sector. Unfortunately, this data was not available at project completion.

Financial Analysis and Impact

The financial analysis in the SAR was based on four representative aquaculture farm models for which the
following IRR were estimated:

         (a) integrated fish-vegetable-cassava farm; IRR 66.0%;



                                                     - 21 -

         (b) fish/rice farm model; IRR 45.4%;
         (c) pure fish farm model; IRR 52.6'%;
         (d) fingerlings production farm model; estimated IRR 114%.

The aquaculture farm models were not applied in farm practice since the technical design was not
well-suited to local production practices. The project supported several fish pond construction projects but
not production itself so that it was not possible to determine whether production was successful and
profitable. This is due to the fact that construction of ponds began much later in the project life which did
not allow for sufficient time to monitor production outcome.

At appraisal, the fiscal impact of the project on public revenues and expenditures were estimated based on
license fees and fisheries royalty levies on gross landed value (GKV)Lof fish. It was also estimated that
fiscal revenue from royalties would increase to about US$0.8 million. The project was designed to transfer
some of the incremental private financial benefits to the public sector through registration and licensing of
vessels, increased levies, and improved collection efforts. License fees fluctuated, increasing considerably
from 1998 to 1999 at about four times over the previous years'; however, it declined in the following two
years before increasing again in the year 2000. The total amount of license fees collected from 1998 to
2002 was Cedis 3,077 million (about US$892,000), and the framework for charging levies based on GLV
was put in place, but implementation proved difficult, and consequently, data on the levies was insufficient
to allow for a evaluation of impact on the Government's fiscal system.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/20/93                  1    AGRIC.ECONOMIST/TASK             S               S
                                             MANAGER
              03/16/94                  1    AGRIC. ECONOMIST/TASK            S               S
                                             MANAGER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/17/94                  4    AGRIC. ECON./TASK                S               S
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); AGRIC.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AGRIC.
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              11/14/94                  2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ECON./FIN.ANALYST(1)
              02/20/95                  7    ACTING DIRECTOR (1);             S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); COUNSEL
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1); PROC.
                                             ANALYST (1); STAFF ASSIST.
                                             (2)

 Supervision

              04/12/1996                4    AGRIC. SPECIALIST (1);           S               S
                                             AGRIC. ECONOMIST (2);
                                             PROC. SPECIALIST (1)
              11/08/1996                4    AG. ECONOMIST (1);               U               S
                                             FISHERIES MGMT. SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRIC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              08/08/1997                5    FISHERIES MGT SPEC (1);          S               S
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1); AG.
                                             SPEC. (TASK LEADER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC (1)
              04/28/1998                2    AG. SPECIALIST (1);              S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/11/1999                4    MISSION LEADER (1); AG.          U               U
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              12/11/2000               10    AGRIC. SPECIALIST (1);           S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIS
                                             (1); MCS SPECIALIST (2);
                                             FISH MANAGEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); AQUACULTURE SPEC.



                                              - 23 -

                                           (1); MARINE BIOLOGIST (1);
                                           M&E SPECIALIST (1); POST
                                           HARVEST SPEC. (1)
               10/12/2001            13    TEAM LEADER (1); FIN               S    S
                                           MGMT SPEC (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                           AG. ECONOMICS/OP OFF (1);
                                           AQUACULTURE SPECIALIST
                                           (1); AG DIRECTOR DOF (1);
                                           PROJECT COORDINATOR (1);
                                           AQUACULTURE SPEC (1);
                                           RESEARCHER
                                           AQUACULTURE (1);
                                           AQUACULTURE SPEC. (1);
                                           MCS. SPECIALIST (1); M&E.
                                           SPECIALIST (1); MARINE
                                           MGMT SPEC (1)
               06/21/2002              6   TEAM LEADER (1); SR.               S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           FINANCIAL SPEC.; (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                           PROJECT COORDINATOR (1)

 ICR
               08/26/02               2     TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         114.80                         205.50
  Appraisal/Negotiation                27.70                         95.60
  Supervision                        127.33                         233.91
  ICR                                  10.03                         32.94
  Total                              279.86                         567.95




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Community Development/Empowerment
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

End of Project Report, Marine Fisheries Research Division (MFRD), June 21, 2002.

Handbook of Social Mobilization for Community-Based Fisheries Management Committees, Family
Haven/Graceland Consult Ltd., March 1998.

Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Directorate of Fisheries, prepared
by Dr. Felix Y.M. Fiadjoe, June 24, 2002.

Manual on Social Mobilization Towards Community-Based Fisheries Resource Management for Project
Extension/Field Offiers, Family Haven/Graceland Consult Ltd., November 1997.

Mid-Term Review Report, October 5-23, 1998, The Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Food and
Agriculture, Accra, Ghana; Rural Development and Environment Division, Country Department 10, The
World Bank.

Operational Manual, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Department of Fisheries, MCS Unit; prepared by
Jean-Louis Lauzière, July 1998.

Progress Report, Directorate of Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture, January ­ June 2002.

Report on Short-term Consultantcy Input: Community-Based Management of Artisanal Fisheries, Q. Q.
Ahene-Amanquanor, Family Haven/Gracelend Consult Ltd., July 1999.

Report on Workshop on Community-Based Fisheries Management System at Winneba August 26-29,
1997, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) and Department of Fisheries, Prepared by Adom Baisie
Ghartey Ghartey Associates, Accra.




                                                  - 27 -

Additional Annex 8. Mid-Term Review Mission Report

                                                  GHANA
                   FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                                   MID-TERM REVIEW REPORT
                                            October 5-23, 1998

                                           Executive Summary

Introduction

1.       The Fisheries Sub-Sector Capacity Building Project was approved by the Board on February 5,
1995 and declared effective on October 23, 1995 and launched in February 13, 1996. The total cost of the
Project is US$ 10.5m financed by the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank
(WB) US$9.0m, and the Government of Ghana (GoG) providing the remaining US$1.5m.

2.      The project is one of the key instruments in implementing the GoG's Medium Term Agricultural
Development Program (MTADP). The key objective is to establish the long term sustainability of the
fisheries resources and thereby maximize its contribution to the economy. To achieve this objective the
project would: build the capacity of the Department of Fisheries (DoF) for managing the sub-sector,
focusing on capacity for formulating policy, management plans and their implementation; monitoring,
control, surveillance and enforcement; and promoting the development of inland fisheries. In accordance
with Article III section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement, a joint IDA/GoG team conducted a
mid-term review of the project during October 5-23, 1998. The following is an executive summary of the
report by the team.

Policy Reforms and Project Management

3.      Significant progress has been achieved in the implementation of 3 out of the 5 policy and legal
reforms the GoG should have undertaken. The fisheries levy on vessels other than canoe fleet has been
revised upwards to 1% gross landed value (GLV); registration of the canoe fleet in the marine sector has
been completed while that of the Volta Lake is currently on-going and scheduled to be completed by
November 30, 1998; naval patrols are being carried out regularly to keep industrial vessels in excess of 50
gross registered tonnage (GRT) out of the 30m depth zone of the marine waters.

4.      The remaining two major unresolved issues with potential negative consequences on the attainment
of project development objectives are the: (i) promulgation of a revised Fisheries Law and; (i) development
of fisheries management plans. The current Fisheries Law of 1991 (PNDC Law 256) does not provide
enough provisions for the sustainable management of the fisheries resources and requires immediate
revision. The development of a fisheries management plan has suffered from the lack of scientific data.
The DoF has agreed to charter a vessel to conduct demersal stock assessment during 1999 and put in place
a management process by the year 2000.

Institutional Strengthening.

5.      The institutional strengthening envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) is progressing well
and has made the DoF functional with salutary effects on the fisheries sub-sector inspite of inadequate
staff numbers. The department has been re-organized and now has 5 divisions to give prominence to



                                                   - 28 -

resource management functions. The project has enabled DoF to support staff training and awareness
creation among the various stakeholders. There is however, an urgent need to employ additional staff
especially for the MCS and also enhance training opportunities for extension staff and farmers if the
project is to achieve the capacity building objective.

Project Management

6.       The project to date has been well managed. Concerns were raised by some individuals with respect
to the role of the Project Steering Committee (PSC), Project Coordinator (PC) and the Director, DoF. The
team is of the view that these concerns have come about as a result of poor communication among the
parties involved and that there is nothing basically wrong with the project management structure per se.
The team recommends that MOFA take adequate steps to ensure the establishment of a good rapport with
the PSC. There should also be a regular bi-weekly management meetings of all heads of the divisions
chaired by the Director, DoF during which the project's progress and problems are discussed and decisions
taken.

Fisheries Research and Development of Management Plans

7.       The inability of the project to refurbish the research vessel mv Kakadiama has affected the
collection of data for the development of a management plan. Marine and inland catch statistics also appear
unreliable due to inadequate staff, poor supervision and poor sampling practices. The DoF has agreed as
per para 4. above to charter a vessel for research purposes which would be financed from project funds.
The project would engage the services of a fisheries resource management specialist to assist the DoF put
in place a management process. The Fisheries Commission (FC) will set the fisheries management agenda,
review progress, results and impact and assess the social and political aspects of potential management
actions. The DoF will also constitute an ad hoc Fisheries Management Operations Committee (FMOC)
comprising DoF staff and others from outside which will meet as and when necessary. The FMOC will
assist the Deputy Director incharge of marine fisheries management to manage activities which will fall in
the following functions: (i) research; (ii) policy and socio-economic analysis; (iii) local management
functions;    (iv) negotiations,   consensus     building, legal   and   regulatory   framework     and;   (v)
information/education.

8.       The serious state of some of the most valuable of Ghana's fish resources and the critical role
fisheries research plays in managing these resources suggest the need for an expansion and concentration
of research efforts into a single institution, a more transparent and client controlled definition of research
agenda, and more direct involvement of various segments of the fishing sector in funding and monitoring
fisheries research. It was agreed that MOFA will request the Fisheries Commission to review and comment
on a plan to merge marine into the fresh water activities of the Water Research Institute (WRI) under the
umbrella of the CSIR. CSIR will then select a Fisheries Research Management Board with membership to
provide guidance to WRI on matters which will include marine research.

Monitoring Control and Surveillance (MCS)

9.       The MCS division was established in accordance with the provisions of the SAR under the office
of the Director, DoF in anticipation of the revision of PNDC Law 256. The Law has been revised but not
promulgated, the current MCS structure therefore contravenes some aspects of the Fisheries Law. It was
agreed that until such a time that the Law is enacted, the Minister for MOFA should ensure the ministry's
compliance with all the provisions of the current Law with respect to the establishment of the unit, fund,
membership and powers.


                                                     - 29 -

10.      The performance of the unit is hampered by inadequate staff, lack of autonomy and office space in
the enforcement of fisheries laws and regulations. The MOFA will require: (i) additional staff to execute
necessary MCS activities; (ii) seek the services of a retired prosecutor or lawyer to prosecute cases on
contract basis and; (iii) relocate the MCS office to Tema where adequate office space exists and most of
the fishing fleet are based. The management of the project will, upon the approval of a quarterly plan of
operation, provide funds to support the unit.

11.      The MCS unit has been totally dependent on naval patrols at sea and on the Volta Lake. The naval
patrols need to be complemented by quay and land based inspections, the use of observers and the
provision of communication equipment for the MCS centers to facilitate community participation. The
MCS strategies must also incorporate vessel monitoring systems (VMS) and aerial patrols.

12.      The non enforcement of Fisheries Laws has had negative impact on the fisheries resources and the
indications are that some fisheries are severely threatened. It is regrettable that Ghanaian fishers comply
with fisheries laws in neighboring countries when they fish in those countries but lament over the same
laws in their own country. The Law on the use of undermesh net sizes for example, has been flouted with
impunity and requires immediate attention.

13.      It was agreed that the DoF/MCS division will mount an intensive educational campaign using the
mass media: local/national radio FM/SW stations, newspapers, posters, organizing fisheries week,
seminars for journalists etc., between now and December 1998, informing stakeholders on the Fisheries
Laws and the resumption of MCS operations both on land and on the waters. The MOFA would also use
this same period to set up the MCS unit and make it operational by December 31, 1998 after which the unit
will embark on total enforcement of the Laws.

Community Participation

14.      By far, the most impressive achievement of the project is in soliciting the involvement of
stakeholders especially the artisanal fishing communities in the management of the resources. The idea has
caught on well, with most communities in the marine sector and the Volta lake having formed Community
Based Fisheries Management Committees (CBFMC). The committees have started to enforce fisheries
laws with the ban in the use of dynamite in fishing having been successfully enforced. One community
Aboesi, has even gone further to ban the landing of juvenile fishes on the beach.

15.      The mission is of the view that the long term sustainability of the fisheries resources rest with the
active participation of the fishers themselves and recommends the intensification of educational campaigns
and MCS operations.

Aquaculture Development

16.      The aquaculture component of the project has not made significant progress. Problems of lack of
fingerlings and appropriate technologies for farmers still persist. Although steps have been taken to
incorporate aquaculture messages into the unified agricultural extension system, the capacity of the
extension staff to deliver messages remains to be proven nationwide. Farmers are also faced with problems
of acess to initial capital for pond construction.

17.      The team strongly recommends that MOFA should vigrously promote the formation of fish farmers
associations which can source for technical messages and            funds to acquire machinery for pond


                                                    - 30 -

construction.

Project financing and Disbursements

The total amount under the IDA Credit disbursed as at October 20, 1998, was SDR 2,031,675 (US$ 2.8
million) with SDR 4,168,325 (US$ 5.9 million) undisbursed.

The GoG counterpart funds released for project activities since the inception are shown in table 1. below.
Although the project has enjoyed 100 % IDA financing for operating cost, this is due to change in 1999,
when the Credit will fund only 70 % of eligible expenditures under this category.




                                                  - 31 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR



                                    THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                            MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
                                  DIRECTORATE OF FISHERIES




                  FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

                                    (FSCBP, IDA-CR2713-GH)




                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




Prepared by: Dr. Felix Y. M. Fiadjoe
           June 24, 2003




                                             - 32 -

                                         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


Introduction
         The Fisheries Sub-Sector Capacity Building Project's (FSCBP) main objective was to improve the
capacity of the staff of the Directorate of Fisheries (DoF) to be able to efficiently manage both marine and
inland fish resources. This is to ensure a long-term sustainability of the fish resource.
         The project was funded by the World Bank (Credit No. IDA-CR2713-GH) for an initial period of
five years. This was later extended for a year ending June 2002. The design remained the same during the
life of the project. Re-allocation of funds was done on two occasions.

Project Objectives and Components
         The project objectives as contained in SAR were clear and were in line with Ghana Government's
policy of improving the fishing sub-sector to reverse the depletion of fish stocks. The expected performance
indicators were however, not well documented.
         The proposed four components/divisions were not strictly adhered to. In practice there were five
divisions operating.

Evaluation of Project Objectives
         The project had a slow start and was plagued by management problems that featured in the various
Bank's Assistance Mission reports. However, despite these setbacks the project achieved modest gains by
the time of the Medium-Term Review. By the end of the period the project had demonstrated an organized
clear path for implementation by all the divisions.
         Two major issues that affected the full realization of project objectives was the non-passage of the
new fisheries Law to give legal framework of the management of the fish resource until the end of the
project. The other is the unavailability of research vessel because the project underestimated the cost of
repairs. The Research Division had to depend on other programmes to update its database. This deprived
the project from having good current database for its management plan.

Performance Review of Component one: Strengthening of DoF
         The Project institutional capacity building impact was very high. Twenty-three new professional
Assistant Fisheries Officers were recruited to augment the existing staff of 61. Twenty-one professional
and sub-professional officers have been trained at local and foreign institutions for diploma, graduate and
post-graduate courses relevant to the management of fishery resources. The training programme favoured
the professional staff over the technical staff.
         Five professional staffs were posted to the Regional and District Development Units in
administrative capacities with responsibilities for both general agriculture and fisheries. This deprived the
DOF from realizing the full benefit of its trained staff.

The Fisheries Law
         After six (6) years the new Fisheries Law to provide legal and regulatory framework to ensure that
the fish resource was managed efficiently was passed by parliament in December 2001. This meant that the
Monitoring Control and Surveillance Division had to operate within the existing Fisheries Law of 1991.
New fishing regulations based on the new law are yet to be approved.

Performance Review of Component two: Inland Fisheries Management
         In general the performance of this division/component has been satisfactory. A successful canoe
frame and gear surveys and fish stock and catches assessments in the Volta Lake were completed. Data



                                                     - 33 -

from these studies were used to develop a Volta Lake Fisheries Management Plan.

Aquaculture
         The SAR is silent on the aquaculture development. The emphasis was more on extension activities.
The project therefore developed a document on National Aquaculture Development in 1998. The emphasis
then shifted from Extension to Policy and Strategy for the development of aquaculture.
         The capacity of various stakeholders in aquaculture has been improved through various training
programmes. A Pilot Aquaculture Centre (PAC) has been completed and when operational will supply a
substantial amount of fingerlings to farmers in the middle belt of the country.

Performance Review of Component three: Marine Fisheries Research
         Although the performance of component three could be said to be satisfactory its contribution to
the overall project impact would have been much higher if it had its own research vessel. The division had
depended on other collaborative programmes to carry out limited research. It has done work in assessment
of demersal and pelagic fishery resources, and an initial study on fishing gears. Results of these studies and
data from survey conducted by the research vessel R.V. Kakadiama in 1981/82 formed the bases for the
Marine Fisheries Management Plan.

Performance Review of Component four: Monitoring Control and Surveillance Division
         This is a new Division created under the Project. It has made a modest performance in both
preventive and enforcement of the existing Fisheries Law PNDCL 256. The division carried out 65
dedicated Naval Patrol with the Ghana Navy. It has instituted an observer programme (compliance and
scientific monitoring), port inspection and beach combing exercises. Two Volta Lake Patrol resulted in the
seizures of illegal fishing gears. It also carries out its local enforcement through Community Based
Fisheries Management Committees. A technical committee has been established to help coordinate the
activities of all stakeholders whose normal duties contribute to the prevention and enforcement of the
Fisheries Law.
         A Command and Control Centre/Operational Centre has been established and is able to
communicate with fishing vessels at sea and the Navy. It has in the meantime asked for a dedicated
frequency to enable it to communicate exclusively with the Navy.

Performance Review of Component five: Marine Fisheries Management
         This component has performed very well. It has conducted Canoe registration and has developed
registration markings for marine canoes, which are yet to be embossed on them. l The division is also
involved in the formation, training and monitoring of CBFMCs for the prevention and enforcement of
fisheries law at the community level.

License Fees
         The performance of this sub component is very high. l License fees for canoes have not been
possible as of now. However, those of industrial and semi-industrial are in place. The fee was increased
from 0.05% to 0.6% of Gross Landed Value (GLV) as of April 1995 to 1% of GLV in January 1997.
Subsequently rates per catch were reviewed to take into account the type of fish species landed. The rates
were then raised from US$2.00 to US$5.00 in 2000 and then to US$10.00 in 2002. The total license fee
collect from 1998 to May 2nd is cedis 3,076,759,000.

Marine Fisheries Management Plan
         A marine fisheries management plan has been concluded the recommendation are yet to be
implemented.




                                                    - 34 -

Evaluation of Project Impact
         The FSCBP has produced significant gains in the management of the fish resources both marine
and inland, notwithstanding problems that characterized the implementation of the project. The licensing of
the semi-industrial and especially the industrial fleet has reduced the number vessels fishing in Ghanaian
waters. The project has improved the capacities of the professional staff. The DoF now has a fisheries
management plans to guide the management of the fisheries resources and for the first has a full fledge
division for Monitoring, Control and Surveillance.
         The DoF has in partnership with the CBFMCs established enforcement and preventive mechanisms
for the Fisheries Law at the community level. There has also been a steady increase in revenue from fishing
license fees and levies improved on fish catch.

Project Costs and Financial Disbursement
         The project was funded by an IDA credit of SDR 6.2 million an equivalent of US$9.00 million and
Ghana Government contribution of US$1.5 million. As of April 30, 2002, 85.2 per cent of the SDR
amount allocated has been disbursed leaving an amount of SDR 916,693 undisbursed. The GoG's
contributions were irregular and were also affected by cedis/dollar exchange rate. At the current
cedis/dollar exchange rate GoG's contributions amounts to only 41% of its commitment. No category
utilized fully the funds allocated.

Procurement of Goods and Services
         The World Bank guideline was strictly observed in the award of contracts for consultants, civil
work, purchase of vehicles etc. Out of 20 residential units 15 were completed, and six out nine office were
completed. The headquarters building was never started.

Major Factors Affecting Project Performance
         Many factors affected the project performance. The delays, irregular and inadequate GoG
counterpart fund delayed the civil works component of the project. The decentralization process underway
in MOFA affected the restructuring and workings of DoF. Some of the trained fisheries professional staff
were made to do administrative and non-fisheries tasks thus depriving DoF of their trained staff. The MCS
dedicated Naval Patrols although started very well, the numbers/year dwindled and in 2002 no patrol was
conducted. Enforcement at sea has therefore suffered.
         The non-availability of a research vessel meant that DoF had to depend upon few collaborative
research programmes to update its database. the DoF is therefore not able to update its database at the
regular intervals needed to input into and revising the marine fisheries management plan.
         The Government of Ghana inability to provide its matching fund to the full did adversely affect the
civil works and the MCS dedicated naval Patrol. the project design calls for the interlinkages of many units
and organization within DoF and outside DoF without providing a mechanism to achieving it. The holistic
nature of the project was not apparent for some time during the life of the project. This made coordination
and control between the divisions of DoF very difficult. Each division operated independently of the other
as in the past.
         Capacity building was seen more of training than how to do things, i.e., the process of doing
things. The process of doings was difficult to implement. The project performance was dependent on
achieving certain tasks/objectives, which were not available and therefore were required to be achieved by
the project within the first year of operation. These included the Fisheries Law and the repair of the
Research Vessel. the time or financial resources needed to achieve both were underestimated. The Law was
passed at the end of the project while the vessel was never repaired.
         The Pilot Aquaculture Centre was completed in April 2002. The training of farmers and extension
staff in aquaculture technology and the production of fingerlings, especially for the middle region of the
country, have therefore not been implemented.


                                                     - 35 -

Evaluation of Bank and Borrower Performance
         The Bank performance on the whole has been satisfactory. The bank undertook eight Assistance
Missions including a mid-term review. Assistance missions provided useful recommendation to help the
management and implementation of the project.
         The objectives in the SAR remained valid throughout the project implementation, however, the
SAR lacked sufficient details to guide the implementation process. The SAR underestimated the repair cost
of the research vessel. The result is that the vessel was never repaired which has affected data collection at
sea.
         The technical proposal appears to be too ambitious considering the capacity of the staff at the
beginning of the project. The staff had no previous experience in implementing a project. This should have
been considered in the designing of the project.
         Despite some difficulties encountered by the borrower it has performed satisfactory and has shown
the desire and willingness to implement the project according to laid down rules. Matching fund was not
provided on time and was not adequate. there was an apparent lack of collaboration of the respective
divisions of DoF. A summary of assessment of the project is provided below.

Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives                Substantial     Partial     Negligible       Not
                                                                                     Applicable
Establish Long Term Sustainability
Fisheries Resource                               X
Capacity Building of DoF                         X
Marine Fisheries Plan                            X
Inland Fisheries Plan                                         X
Establishment of MCSD                            X
Institutional Development                        X
New Fisheries Law                                X
Refurbishment of Research Vessel                                            X


B. Project Sustainability                     Likely              Unlikely         Uncertain
                                                X



C. Bank Performance                          Highly             Satisfactory         Deficient
                                          Satisfactory
Identification                                 X
Preparation Assistance                         X
Appraisal                                                            X
Supervision                                                          X

D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                    X
Implementation                                                       X
Assurance                                                            X




                                                      - 36 -

E. Assessment of Outcome
                                                                       X

F. Quality of Entry                                                    X


G. Project at Risk at any Time                              YES                       NO
                                                                      X

Project Sustainability
         The project sustainability is rated as likely. From the performance/achievement of the FSCBP,
there is enough evidence to indicate that a very good framework for future organizational growth has been
established. The DoF can build upon it to improve its management of the fish resource both marine and
inland. the professional staff capacity has been improved especially for the Inland fisheries division.
         Another aspect affecting the sustainability of the FSCBP is the establishment of a rudimental way
of doing things, which will need working on as a matter of urgency. The unavailability of a research vessel
may put limitations on efforts for sustainability.

Arrangement for Continuation
         To ensure the sustainability of the gains of the project arrangements have bee worked out for DOF
activities to continue under MOFA's Agricultural Services Sub-Sector Investment Programme (AgSSIP).
AgSSIP shall provide Funding and other logistics for DOF.

Key Lessons Learnet and the Way Forward
         Some of the key lessons learnt from the project are presented below:
1.       The FSCBP has brought home the importance of having a Fisheries Management Plan from which
guidelines and processes and strategies are developed to manage efficiently the fish resource, both marine
and inland for sustainability. The management plan also provides all stakeholders a common basis for
action. However, there is still a lot more to be done to foster the needed collaborations and synergies
between the divisions and the development of an implementation strategy.

2.       Hitherto the divisions operated as though each was an entity to itself. However, through the
project, it has become increasingly clear that the division's activities and performances are dependent on
close collaboration and coordination of their respective activities with other Divisions to produce a good
performance result. There is still a lot more to be done to foster the needed collaborations between the
divisions and other agencies.

3.       There is a realization that enforcement of the Fisheries Law involves multi-sectoral efforts and
cooperation as well as the active involvement of fishing communities and District assemblies. The
involvement of some fishing communities in law enforcement has started showing positive results.

4.       The efficient management of the fisheries resource depends upon having a good knowledge of the
existing situation. This calls for an on-going research stock assessment, and being able to control and
improve the database on a regular basis. There is therefore the need to adequately provide for research and
the provision of a research vessel.

5.       The project had a slow start because of lack of proper understanding of the different role
expectations and not having clear process of how to accomplish tasks identified.




                                                     - 37 -

6.       Government's inadequate provision of its counterpart fund contribution affected the completion of
some civil works and number of dedicated MCSD/Navy Patrols.

7.       Having a separate project administration from regular DOF administration created situations of
conflict in decision making between the administators.

    The Way Forward
    Administration
·        The project administration should be merged with the main DOF administration while ensuring that
the procedures adopted under the project are incorporated and improved upon.
·        There is a need to change the way things are done. This calls for an institutional capacity building
that takes into account not only the building of individual technical competencies but also putting in place
regulations, procedures, and processes on how things are done bearing in mind the overall goal of the
directorate.

   Fisheries Law
·        The implementation of the Fisheries Law is important. new regulations based on the Law must be
developed and publicized to all stakeholders as quickly as possible. This should be followed by regular
education for all stakeholders on the Law.

  Management Plan
·        Both Marine and Inland Fisheries Management Plans must be updated periodically ensure an
efficient management of the fishery resource. This calls for constantly updating the database as well as
improving the quality of the data.
·        DoF must put in place a Management Information System (MIS) to capture information on the
fishing industry. This is to ensure that at anytime there is available current information for management
decision-making and monitoring and evaluation.
·        The staff of DOF should be educated on the Management Plan.

  Control of Exploitation of the Fish Resource
·        The control of exploitation of the marine fish resource has been achieved through the limitation of
industrial fishing vessels in Ghanaian waters by licensing and the type of vessel permitted. There is
however the need to control the artisanal sector which accounts for 75% of fish catch. The number of
registered canoes has been on the increase.

  Enforcement of Fisheries Law
  ·      Community participation in enforcement must be consolidated. The establishment of the CBFMCs
  and making them operational must be vigorously pursued. However their activities should be closely
  monitored.
·        Periodic educational programmes on the Fisheries Law for all stakeholders must be undertaken.
·        Allocation of a second frequency to MCS shall be needed for an effective surveillance work. This
will enable MCS to communicate exclusively with the Navy for surveillance and enforcement activities.

  Training
·        A training plan should be developed for all categories of staff of the DOF. This should be a
permanent feature of the DOF.




                                                     - 38 -

- 39 -

