CREDIT NUMBER 2713 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Fisheries Subsector Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       taS                 , 1995


﻿CRED16T NUMBER 2713 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      A     'S      , 1995, between REPUBLIC
OF GHANA (the Borrower) and IN   RNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Association has received a letter dated March 2,
1995 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to improve its fisheries resources
(hereinafter called the Program); and
(C)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia., of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "DOF"  means  the  Department  of  Fisheries   in  the
Borrower's Ministry of Food and Agriculture;
(b)   "MCS" means the Monitoring, Control and Surveillance
system for the fisheries sector to be established under the Project;
(c)   "MOFA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Food and
Agriculture;


﻿-2-
(d)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and adopted pursuant to
Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement; and
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.


﻿- 3 -
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15,
commencing July 15, 2005 and ending January 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15,
2015 shall be one percent (1) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (29) of such principal
amount.
(b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Eorrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the


﻿-4-
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and fisheries management practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with: (i) the Project Implementation Plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Association. The said plan shall at all times be
satisfactory to the Association and shall cover all components of
the Project, subject to modifications based on implementation
experience and the midterm review referred to in Section 3.07 of
this Agreement; and (ii) the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes
of this Project:
(a)   open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)  deposit into the Project Account an initial amount
equivalent to $100,000;
(c)  prepare, not later than October 31 of each year, a
budget for the succeeding fiscal year specifying by quarter the
Borrower's contribution to the financing of the Project, as
estimated by the Borrower in consultation with the Association, as
part of the annual review referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement;
(d)   deposit into said account, promptly before each fiscal
quarter, the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the Project
required for such ensuing quarter; and
(e)  ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account
pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (d) above shall be used only to make


﻿payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:      (a) not later than
September 30 of each year, furnish to the Association for its review
and comments the annual training program for the following calendar
year; and (b) thereafter implement the training program taking into
account the views of the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1996, furnish evidence satisfactory to the Association that revised
draft fisheries legislation acceptable to the Association has been
presented to the Borrower's Parliament.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)  carry out, jointly with the Association not later than
December 31, 1997, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying
out the Project and the Program. The midterm review shall cover,
among other things, the effectiveness of: (i) fisheries management
plans, (ii) DOF in the collection and use of fisheries statistics,
(iii) management plans on the regeneration of marine demersal
stocks, (iv) the pilot aquaculture program, (v) the institutional
strengthening program, and (vi) the MCS system in the management of
fisheries resources;
(b)  at least sixty days prior to the midterm review, furnish
to the Association a report describing the status of items listed in
paragraph (a) above and of Project and Program implementation
generally; and
(c)  not later than two weeks after the midterm review,
prepare an action program acceptable to the Association to deal with
deficiencies in Project and Program implementation identified during
the review and shall thereafter implement such action program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or


﻿-7-
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account, the Project Account, and
fisheries levies for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after        the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and


﻿-8-
(iv) ensure   that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence,
satisfactory to the Association, that the following professional
staff for DOF with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to
the Association, have been assigned, namely, (i) eleven MCS
personnel, (ii) two economists, (iii) two sociologists, and (iv) at
least one accountant;
(b)   the Borrower has established the Project Account and
deposited therein the initial amount referred to in Section 3.04 (b)
of this Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower has completed the preparation of tender
documents for the procurement of vehicles and equipment and the
arrangements for the rehabilitation of the research vessel in
accordance with Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and


﻿(d)   the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation
Plan, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICjE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister for Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:               Telex:
ECONOMICON                2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and                870,000       100% of foreign
Equipment                                  expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2) Civil works               1,430,000       95%
(3) Consultant's                650,000       100%
Services
(4) Training                  1,200,000       100%
(5) Vessel                      460,000       100% of foreign
Rehabilitation                             expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(6) Operating Costs          1,280,000        100% for
expenditures
incurred up to
December 31, 1998,
and 70% thereafter
(7) Unallocated                 310,000
TOTAL                6,200,000


﻿- 12 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "operating costs" means the incremental costs
incurred under the Project to finance utilities, fuel and other
vehicle operating expenses, per diem for staff on field trips, cost
of temporary hired labor, cost of publications, and costs of office
and laboratory supplies.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for civil works under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent and services under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish the long-term
sustainability of the fisheries sector and thereby maximize its
contribution to the nation's economy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Department of Fisheries
1.    Strengthening the capacity of the Department of Fisheries in
financial management, collection and management of fisheries levies,
budget planning and management through technical assistance and
training of staff in extension methods, marketing, fisheries
resource management, fisheries economics, and monitoring, control
and surveillance.
2.    Establishment of new divisions of DOF dealing with Marine
Fisheries Management and Monitoring, Control and Surveillance.
3.    Construction and rehabilitation of DOF's offices.
4.    Acquisition of vehicles, office equipment and supplies.
Part B:     Marine Fisheries Management
1.    Carrying out stock assessments of various fishery resources
through trawling trials, catch evaluations and acoustic surveys.
2.    Improving  the  quality  of fisheries statistics, through
updating of the frame surveys, aerial census and registration of
fishing vessels.
3.    Preparation of fishery management plans.
4.    Promotion of community-based fisheries management.
5.    Rehabilitation of fisheries research vessels.
6.    Acquisition of vehicles, technical and office equipment.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:     Inland Fisheries Management
1.    Supporting  improved management and development of      lake
fisheries through carrying out stock assessments and promotion of
community-based management of fisheries resources in Lake Volta and
other lakes.
2.    Preparation and implementation of management plans in lake
fisheries.
3.    Acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
4.    Promotion of aquaculture through use of extension services.
Part D:     Monitoring, Control and Surveillance
Establishment of monitoring, control and surveillance systems
in both marine and lake fisheries, including the acquisition of
boats, vehicles and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except  as provided   in  Part  C   hereof, goods   and  the
rehabilitation of the research vessel shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following
additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropri,-ze adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of
Part D of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if
the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and the rehabilitation of
the research vessel in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally .recognized   standard   forms  agreed  with   the
Association.


﻿- 16 -
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $325,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association, or may be procured through the Inter-Agency Procurement
Services Office of the United Nations Development Program, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such


﻿- 17 -
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981         (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception
to prior Association review shall not apply to:   (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to


﻿- 18 -
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower's Ministry of Food and Agriculture, through the
Department of Fisheries, shall have overall responsibility for
Project implementation and management, as follows:
(a)   in carrying out Part B of the Project, the Marine
Fisheries Management and Research Divisions of DOF shall: (i) carry
out stock assessments, and (ii) prepare management plans for the
marine fisheries;
(b)   in the carrying out of Part C of the Project, the Inland
Fisheries Management Division of DOF shall:    (i) carry out the
census of fishing activities and related studies on the Volta Lake,
and (ii) implement the aquaculture pilot program;
(c)   the Administration and Operations Division of DOF shall
be responsible for collating operational plans and progress reports,
keeping records of fishermen, collecting and managing the various
fisheries levies and managing DOF's training program; and
(d)   the Monitoring, Control and Surveillance Division of DOF
shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with fisheries
regulations, enforcing safety-at-sea regulations and assisting in
search and rescue operations.
2.    In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall take
all necessary measures to ensure that: (a) all fishing trawlers in
excess of 50 gross registered tonnage have stopped operating from
within the 30-meter depth line by not later than June 30, 1996;
(b) the registration of the canoe fishing fleet has been completed
by not later than December 31, 1996; and (c) a strategy, acceptable
to the Association, for implementing appropriate fisheries
management plans has been adopted and furnished to the Association
not later than December 31, 1996.
3.    The Borrower shall:   (a) ensure that levies on all vessels
other than the canoe fleet have been increased to the equivalent of
1% of the gross .landed value of catch by not later than June 30,
1997; (b) by June 30, 1998, review the experience with the initial
increase including, inter alia, the adequacy of the levies and their
impact on the industry; (c) furnish the recommendations of said
review to the Association for its review and comments; and


﻿- 20 -
(d) implement  said  recommendations, taking   into  account  the
Association's comments.
4.    The Borrower shall:  (a) not later than October 31 of every
calendar year, jointly with the Association, carry out a review of
the progress of the Project for the preceding calendar year,
(b) promptly thereafter furnish to the Association for review and
comments an action program for Project implementation for the
following year, and (c) implement said action program, taking into
account the views of the Association.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $150,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 22 -
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the  documents  and  other  evidence  required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment  or   pa- -ents  in  respect  of  which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
su'ch amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be


﻿- 23 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 24 -
(c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the oripinal in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


