D _ment Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6205
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
May 20, 1986
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



O  OWQiAL UVE ONLY
TH* WORW SANK
Washntan. D.C. 20433
US.A
May 20, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Thailand Sixth Highway Project
(Loan 1519-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Thailand Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1519-TH)" prepared
by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Under the modified system for
project performance auditing, further evaluation of this project by the
Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a festriteddinibuton and may be usd by rcipients only in he perfofmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discimd without WnVA k^A- 



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE    .........................................................         i
BASIC DATA      5HEET* ...............g ..                                  ii
HIGHLIGHTS                                                                 iii
I.  Project Background and Sectoral Settingtt..      ing......o..     1
II.  Project Formulation....m u l a ti.. .............on..........     3
III.  Project Implementation. ....... *...         .e...........        6
IV.  Project Cost and Bank Loan.oo.an.........................        16
V.  Institutional Development... ......... .. ....... ..... .. *     18
VI.  Economic Reevaluation. ....,.e.....e.g..     o*C@@ ..g.g.        19
VII.  The Role of the Bank........                                     21
VIII. Conclusions................                       .........................  21
Tables
1.0  Project Implementation.................. ............. .       o       23
2.1  Construction Contract Costs       ..............................       25
2.2  Equipment Contract Costs                                               26
2.3  Consultant Contract Costs.... , .......... *.....               ..   27
3.0  Actual and Forecast Project  C      os                t      s         28
4.0  Traffic Volumes...                                                     29
5.0  Vehicle Operating Costs                                                31
6.0  Economic Rates of Return                                               34
7.0  Actual and Forecast Disbursements........................00*0          35
8.0  Compliance with Loan C    on        d i t i o n s                      36
MAP
IBRD 12911R: National Highway and Provincial Road Networks
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the performane
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.'



- i.-
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Sixth Highway
Project for which Loan 1519 was approved in March 1978 for the sum of
US$110.0 million.
The PCR was prepared by the East Asia and Pacific TraDaportation
Division, based upon technical Report No. PE-ll which was prepared by the Thai
Ministry of Communications. The Bank's files have also been reviewed.
The loan was closed on March 31, 1984.
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting
procedures this report has been read in the Operations Fvaluation Department
(ORD) but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion
Report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COOPLETION REPORT BASIC DATA SHEET
THAILAND - SIXTH MIGUWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TN)
XEY PPOJCT DATA
Appraisal
ItO                                                                expectation              Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                                               206.69                194 39
Underrun ,S)                                                                   -                     6.00
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                                      110.0                   -
Disbursed       )                                                              -                   102.57
Cancelled       )                                                                _                   7.43
Repaid to       ) ay 30. 195                                                  14.66                 15.96
Outstanding to ) Me J.95                                                      95.34                 86.61
Date Physical Compoiiits Completed I
Proportion Completed by Above Date (1)                                          75                       100
Proportion of Time Undarrun or Overrun (2)                                       -                        40
Economic Rate of Return (2)                                                     29                       20
Institutional Performance                                                      Good                    Good
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                                 Actual or
item                                               _Plan              REvisions            Est. Actual
First Mention in ?Iles or Timetable                                                                       14/73
Negotiations                                                 1
Board Approval                                                     u8u
Loan Agreement Date
If fectiveneas Date
Closing Date
Borrower                                                   Ilnido   of Thailan4d
Executing Agency                                           MInistry of comaunications
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                    October l-September 30
Follow-on Project Meae                                     Frovincial loads Project
Loan Number                                              2035-TN
Amount (US$ million)                                     35.0
Loan Atreement Date                                      08/131
MISSION DATA
No. of         No. of                           Data of
Item                               Month, Year       Weeks          Persons       Mun-weekr          LR&ort
Identification                             11/73            1.0               1            1.0             012574
Preparation                                 I                 -07a            2            2.0             12/2S17S
Appraisal                                - l                4.0               2           8.0                 267
Total                                                 6.0                         -11.0S
Supervision I                                 79             1.O'a            2           2.0                /24/79
Supervision II                                09                              2           4.0        0       /31/80
Supervision III                            05/80           - a               T           -2.               072980
Supervieion IV                              1              2.0/              2         ___4.0            083181
Supervision V                              10/81                              2            2.0                18/81
Supervision VI                             0/2lO                              1            1.0                   82
Supervision VII                            01/83T                                         4.0 2            0t1/3
Supervision VIII                           061              20a               1            2.0            070683
Supervision xI                              l 1l1IT3I b                       2            2.0             1  2083
Supervision X 014+0tS8
Total                                                1.
COUNTRY EXCHANaE RATES
Name of Currency (abbreviation)                                          Baht                          (  B  )
Period:
Appraisal Year Average            1977                                Exchange Rate%    US$1 -        20.40
Intervening Vears Average    1978-83                                                     US$1 -       21.67
Completion Year                   1984                                                   US$1 *       23.05
Overall                        1i7  84                                                   US$1 *      21.60
/a Originally includivg supervision of Fifth Highway Project, and preparation of provincial roads project,
but nov adjusted for this project only.
/b Originally including supervision of Fifth Highway Project, First and Second Provincial Roads Project. but
now adjusted for thia project only.
December 4, 1985



- iii -
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
The Sixth Highway Project continued the Bank's assistance to the
Government of Thailand in improving its road network. The project was
designed to meet increasing traffic volumes and develop the provincial, or
secondary, road network given the fact that the national highway network was
fairly well developed by the late 70s.
The project achieved all of its objectives, despite some delays.
The construction and improvement of roads which originally were unpaved or
impassable dirt tracks was carried out successfully. All civil works were
executed by Thai contractors who were supervised by the staff of the Ministry
of Communications (MOC), assisted by a team consisting of local and foreign
consultants. The maintenance program included under the project helped to
address the long outstanding issues related to inadequate road maintenance.
The various studies produced detailed engineering for other provincial and
rural (tertiary) roads, as well as for inland waterways and coastal ports,
which are now being built under several follow-on projects. The project
included technical assistance and training components that were designed to
help build up the MOC's two main departments concerned with roads - the
Department of Highways (DOH) and the Transportation Planning Unit (TPU).
There was also some technical assistance extended to the Ministry of the
Interior for a study of the reorganization of its rural roads organizations.
Finally, although there was a slight cost underrun, the economic rate of
return was slightly below appraisal estimates due to slower than anticipated
traffic growth.  This rate was, however, still high enough to justify the
project investments.
The outstanding features of this project were the development of
local consultants and contractors as well as the extensive institution
building in all road organizations. It has left Thai road organizations with
increased capability to plan, design, supervise and construct road subsector
projects.



THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (Loan 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND SECTORAL SETTING
The Transport Sector
1.01      For the past 20 years, the Thai economy has grown at an average rate
of about 7% per annum (p.a.) due primarily to its rapidly developing
agriculture sector. This growth has generated a high demand for transport.
To accommodate this demand, the Government undertook large transport
investments in successive five year plans and also helped to create a
generally competitive transport industry. Today all Changwats (counties) are
interlinked by a road network, and transport services have penetrated most of
previously remote rural areas. The country now has a reasonably good
transport system, though there is continued scope for further development.
1.02      The Thai Government's basic objective in the past has been to
increase transport capacity in line with projected traffic growth and to avoid
major bottlenecks. This objective has largely been achieved. Furthermore,
the transport system is reasonably balanced, as there is no substantial
uneconomic allocation of traffic among the various modes. Road transport is
the predominant mode. Roads (excluding urban traffic) carry about 77% of all
ton-km, followed by rail with 11%, and 6% each for inland waterways and
coastal shipping. In passenger transport (again excluding urban traffic),
roads carry about 92% of passenger-km, against 7% carried by rail and 1Z by
other modes. During the 1980s, the transport sector is expected to continue
expanding in step with, or slightly ahead of, GNP growth.
1.03      Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been
complemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the
transportation system through the establishment and strengthening of
institutions to plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilities and
services. For example, at the recommendation of and with assistance from the
Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU) was set up in 1977 in the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) to provide the MOC with the technical expertise for
transport planning, coordination and policy formulation. Since then, the TPU
has received significant technical assistance under successive highway
projects and has developed into a reasonably competent planning and
coordination agency.
1.04      The Bank has played an active role in advising and assisting the
Thai authorities in pursuing their transport objectives. A summary of Bank
transport investments follows:



- 2 -
Signing                           Amount
Project                  date                Loan #         ($ m)
1.  Hig4ways I                    06/11/63                341           21.9
2.  Highways II                   06/24/66                455           31.1
3.  Highways III                  05/23/68                 535          22.3
4.  Highways IV                   06/27/69                626           16.8
5.  Highways V                    12/26/72                870           22.8
6.  Highways VI                   03/23/78               1519          102.6
7.  Bangkok Traffic Mgmt.         12/04/78               1638            8.1
8.  Provincial Roads              08/13/81               2035           35.0
9.  Provincial Roads II           09/28/83               2311          100.0
Subtotal                                                       360.6
10. Railways I                    10/27/50                 35            3.0
11. Railways II                   08/09/55                128           12.0
12. Railways III                  04/28/61                280           14.5
13. Railways IV                   06/01/73                898           14.5
14. Railways V                    04/23/79               1662           16.1
Subtotal                                                        60.1
15. Ports I                       10/27/50                 37            4.4
16. Port II                       10/12/56                151            3.3
17. Third Bangkok Port            08/06/70                702           12.0
18. Inland Waterways &
Coastal Ports               08/27/80               1889           53.0
19. Bangkok & Sattahip Ports      12/19/80               1918           47.0
Subtotal                                                       119.7
Total                                                          540.4
The Road Subsector
1.05      In order to meet the demand for road transport, since the 1960s, the
Government has been devoting around three-quarters of all transport investment
to roads. Much of this originally went into developing adequate all weather
paved national roads to connect the principal population and agricultural
production regions with Bangkok. Subsequently, emphasis was shifted to the
provincial roadn and lastly to the rural roads. The public road network now
totals about 150,000 km, consisting of about 14,300 km of national (primary)
roads, 28,400 km of provincial (secondary) roads, and about 106,000 km of
rural (tertiary) roads. Almost 100% of the national roads are paved. About
16,700 km of provincial roads are improved (of which 70% are paved), and about
11,700 km are still unimproved. An increasing length of older national and



provincial (paved) roads requires pavement rehabilitation and strengthening.
There is also a great need to upgrade the unimproved provincial roads.
1.06      Motorized traffic on all public roads has steadily increased since
the sixties and seventies. The number of registered four-wheel road vehicles
amounts to 14.3 per 1,000 persons, a figure which compares to 15.4 in the
Philippines and 48.2 in Malaysia. About 93% of non-urban traffic is concen-
trated on the national and provincial roads, where traffic volumes on some
sections exceed 10,000 vehicles per day. During the past 20 years, traffic
growth ranged between 7% and 15% p.a. Traffic on national and provincial
roads is now projected to grow at an average of about 6% p.a. during the
eighties.
1.07      The first four Bank financed highway projects provided major
assistance to paving the national highways, in particular those radiating from
Bangkok towards the north, the southeast and southwest, and others within the
northeast. The fifth highway project continued development of national roads
from Bangkok to various cities in the South east and northeast as well as four
provincial roads. All of the projects also included components for: (a)
institution building in the MOC; (b) formulation and revision of transport
sector policies such as user charges; and (c) technical assistance and
provision of equipment for road maintenance and for equipment repair
workshops. The policy changes supported by Bank projects included the
adoption of more appropriate road standards, pricing fuel (especially diesel)
to support energy conservation programs and to improve efficiency of road
transport, and a modified Government policy on toll roads requiring financial
and economic studies prior to levying tolls on any road.
1.08      When the sixth highway project was being considered, the national
highway system was fairly well defined and constructed. Its expanuion was
limited to construction of a few new links a2d to widening certain heavily
used routes close to Bangkok. The Government's emphasis was then shifting to
provincial roads and the Sixth project was designed to concentrate on their
construction and improvement. This report reviews the progress made under the
Sixth project based on information provided by the Post Evaluation Section of
the Department of Highways (DOH) and a review of the Bank's files in
Washington. Bank staff, who are familiar with the project have also
contributed to this review.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Preparation Stage
2.01      The project arose out of the Government's recognition in the mid
19709 that Thailand's road network was inadequate to serve the rapidly
growing vehicle fleet and the increasing demand for road transport which was
accompanying the country's rapid development. It was prepared with the
assistance of Australian consultants, in a joint venture with local
consultants, financed under the Fifth Highway project. The consultants
carried out a two phase feasibility study from late 1973 through 1975 which
identified about 22 sections of high priority provincial roads suitable for



- 4 -
development. The same consultants carried out detailed engineering of the
roads in 1976-77, which was substantially completed by the time of project
appraisal.
Project Objectives
2.02      The objective was to support the Government's development plan for
the provincial roads system which formed part of the Fourth Five Year Plan
(1977-81). In addition to this plan of construction and improvement, the
objectives also included (i) improving the maintenance of national highways
and provincial roads; (ii) planning and conducting studies of provincial roads
and rural roads to prepare future road improvement projects; (iii) preparing
studies of complementary development of inland waterways transport and coastal
ports; and (iv) providing technical assistance and training for both DOH and
MOC staff.
Appraisal Stage
2.03      The appraisal mission, composed of an engineer and an economist,
visited Thailand in October 1977 and reviewed the project documents. These
included the detailed engineering, economic evaluation, bid documents and
other information requested previously by the Bank.
2.04      Only one real issue was raised at appraisal but several other topics
were discussed for which specific actions were to be agreed on at
negotiations. The issue centered around the loan amount. The then tentative
allocation was US$80 million which was inadequate to finance the entire
foreign exchange cost (US$132 m) for all the possible project items. A loan
of US$100 m would suffice if 3 roads (totalling 208 km) were dropped from the
14 roads (totalling 887 km) appraised. The other discussions were concerned
with traffic data collection, inadequate maintenance programs, construction of
key links to connect the project roads at Bangkok and paving of some other
supporting roads, and the Government's policies on toll roads.
2.05      Loan negotiations were held in Washington in January 1978.
Discussions were successful and the Government and the Bank agreed on a number
of points, the principal ones being:
a)   the loan amount would be US$110.0 million, to cover eleven (11)
sections of provincial roads, totalling 671 km;
(b) the extension of the collection and analysis of traffic data would
include the entire provincial road system;
(c) an eight-year program of maintenance of the national highways would
be carried out in accordance with the recommendations of the Highway
Maintenance Study;
(d) the Government would construct satisfactory road links between Bang
Bua Thong and Thon Buri/Bangkok, and complete paving of the Chana-
Thepa-Patthani road;



(e) roads would be selected for feasibility studies and for subsequent
detailed engineering;
(f) tolls would not be introduced on any sections of the project roads
without first carrying out an economic and financial evaluation, and
agreement between tne Bank and the Government.
Project Description
2.06      The project, as agreed, consisted of the following:
(a) Construction and improvement, including bituminous paving, and
supervision by consultants, of 11 sections of provincial roads
totalling 671 km;
(b) an eight-year program of maintenance of the national highways and
provincial roads, including the procurement of road maintenance and
workshop equipment, with an initial supply of spare parts;
(f) a review by consultants of the national highway and provincial road
systems to establish priorities for improvement, and feasibility
studies by consultayts of about 1,500 km of roads (predominantly
provincial roads), followed by detailed engineering by consultants
of about 1,200 km; if found justified. Also, a study by consultants
to prepare an investment program for rural roads in eight selected
Changwats;
(d) detailed engineering by consultants for improvements to the waterway
between Nakhon Sawan and Klong Toei (Bangkok Port), and for
construction of a port at Nakhon Sawan and related economic studies;
(e) a feasibility study of the improvement of about 20 coastal ports and
the preparation of a development program for them;
(f) technical assistarce by consultants:
(i)    to the DOH, particularly for detailed planning and implementing
the agreed road maintenance program, and for training of staff;
and
(ii)    to the MOC for training the staff of the TPU; and executing a
road user taxation study; and
(g) provision of fellowships for training staff of the DOH and TPU.
2.07      The appraisal report, No. 1692a-TH was dated January 26, 1978.  The
project was approved by the Executive Directors in February 1978 and Loan
Agreement No. 1519-TH (US$110.0 million, for 20 years including 5 years of
grace with interest at 7.45X per annum) was signed on March 23, 1978. The
Loan agreement became effective on September 14, 1978.



- 6 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
3.01      All road construction and paving was originally scheduled for
completion by May 1982 but, due to initial delays in contract awards and
subsequently during construction, some of the roads were completed anywhere
from four to eighteen months behind schedule. Similarly, all other project
components suffered lengthy delays, most of which were due to budgetary and
administrative constraints. Consequently, the original loan closing date of
December 31, 1982 was extended two times until March 31, 1984.
Road Construction and Paving
3.02      The project had been fully prepared before loan signature, including
detailed engineering, preparation of bid documents, and prequalification of
contractors for international competitive bidding. In fact, bids had already
been invited for eight roads in late 1977. The bids for the remaining roads,
Bang Bua Thong - Suphanburi, Ban Sali -Ayuthaya, and Sam Khok-Sena, were
received in Ncvember 1978, about six months behind the schedule. The
contracts for these three roads were therefore awarded about ten months later
than originally scheduled, a somewhat lengthier delay than for the other roads
(two to three months). Bid prices were on the whole quite close to appraisal
estimates. Although ICB was used and foreign firms took part in the bidding,
all contracts were won by Thai contractors.
3.03      The construction of four roads, Bo Phloi - U Thong, Bo Phloi - Dan
Chang, Had Yai - Semyaek Khuha and Had Yai - Chana, was completed before the
contract date and also before the original schedule anticipated at
appraisal. Although acquisition problems for the Bo Phloi - U Thong and Had
Yai - Samyaek Khuha roads forced the contractors to alter their work programs,
this did not affect the overall completion schedule as the contractors were
able to regain lost time. Changes were made during the construction of each
road (for Had Yai - Chana an additional bridge was constructed) but they were
all for less than the 10% of price variQtion allowed by contract.
3.04      The other seven roads were completed anywhere from four to eighteen
months behind schedule, largely because of the initial delays in bidding and
contract award. They were also adversely affected by the very heavy monsoons
of 1978 and 1980 as well as a few cases of contractor difficulties. The
reasons for delays (other than monsoon rains) are summarized below:
Completion
Road                        delay                        Reasons
1.  Nakhon Sawan-         7 months                (a) Right-of-way acquisition;
Philsanulok                                   (b) design changes during
construction
2.  Ban Chai Badan-       4 months                (a) route realignment between
Dan Khun Thot                                 km 31 and km 34 + 500;



-7-
(b) a need to rebuild
pavement which was damaged
because side drainage was not
provided;
(c) extending the road to
intersect with Highway 21.
3.  Ban Bung-             7 months                (a) right of way acquisition;
Klaeng                                        (b) construction of an addi-
tional access road
4.  Ban Bung-              14 months               (a) Right of way acquisition;
Ban Xhai                                      (b) Repairs to sections
damaged by Petroleum
Authority of Thailand
(c) additional upgrading
works on adjacent road links
(10% of contract value)
5. Bang Bua Thong -        18 months              (a) Contractor's equipment
Suphanburi                                    was not in good working
order;
(b) poor construction
techniques led to the rework-
ing of several paved areas;
(c) technical problems due to
difficult soil conditions;
(d) poor management and
adverse relations with
subcontractors;
(e) disputes over work
quality with the consultants;
(f) several changes,
including additional bridges,
during construction.
6.  Ban Sali -             14 months               (a) Difficult soil
Ayuthaya                                      conditions;
(b) disputes among Joint
Venture partners on provision
of mutual access, damaged
works, etc.,
(c) construction of 4
additional access roads
7.  Samkhok-              11 months               Some minor changes involving
Sena                                          additional works on bridges,
but work hod started nearly
10 months Late due to bidding
and contract award delays



3.05      Overall road construction and paving was executed relatively well.
The same consultants who carried out the feasibility studies and detailed
engineering of the roads were selected to assist the Department of Highways in
the selection of contractors and the supervision of construction. The
consultants' contracts were signed on April 19, 1978. Their supervisory
performance was satisfactory. Reporting was prompt and in adequate detail for
monitoring project performance. Relations with contractors were good except
on the Bang Bua Thong - Suphan Buri road where probleme occurred because of
poor management by the contractors.
3.06      In addition to these project roads, the DOH, in accordance with the
Loan Agreement, awarded contracts for constructing the link roads between Bang
Bua Thong and Bangkok Noi. The construction of Bang Bua Thong - Taling Chan
section began on April 17, 1979, and was completed on November 1, 1981;
construction of Taling Chan - Bangkok Noi section began on March 23, 1979, and
was completed on January 10, 1983, except for an interchange at Taling Chan
for which a separate contract was completed on November 15, 1984.
3.07      The actual length of roads improved and constructed totalled 679
km. The roads were handed over to the MOC field organizations for
maintenance.
Maintenance of National Highways and Provincial Roads
3.08      During the "Study of Highway Maintenance and Equipment Needs," which
was financed under the Fifth Highway Project Loan 870-TH, it was established
that a shortage of highway equipment, the age of the existing equipment fleet,
lack of funds and insufficient supervisory staff were all affecting highway
maintenance, in particular periodic maintenance. At the time of the sixth
project negotiations, the MOC prepared budget estimates for 8 years of road
maintenance (FY78-86) which included the procurement of highway maintenance
equipment to replace worn out DOH equipment. Arrangements for setting up a
revolving fund for the repair and replacement of maintenance equipment were
included in the project.
3. '      This component was to provide enough equipment for the DOH to carry
oul. routine maintenance on the national and provincial road systems. The
equipment was classified into six groups: group I: "vehicles," group II:
"other vehicles," group III:  "heavy equipment," group IV:  "compaction
equipment," group V: "tractors" and group VI "other equipment". The Bank
also agreed to the purchase of additional maintenance equipment (a 2-ton
tandem vibrating roller and a vibrating plate tamper) as well as to the
purchase of 24 Bailey bridges with 100 ft spans. The ICB for the procurement
of highway equipment, except group I, was in August 1978, close to the
scheduled date. The bidding for group I was on September 11, 1978 and for
additional equipment on May 30, 1980. The World Bank guidelines for
Procurement were used by the Department of Highways. The procurement of all
maintenance equipment was completed on February 2, 1982, about eleven months
later than scheduled at appraisal.
3.10      After considerable delay the "Revolving Fund" (a management system,
with internal 'hire' financing for road maintenance equipment) became



-9-
partially operational in late 1983. The delays were due to problems with
administrative and budgetary procedures for operating the fund; these were
only solved after prolonged negotiations with the Ministry of Finance and
other Government agencies concerned, and final approval by the Cabinet. It is
too early to judge properly the performance of this Fund mainly because it is
understaffed and has had difficulties with data flow, document control and the
computer capacity. However, it has already improved the planning and
progranming of works in the districts and the efficient use of equipment. The
Fund is being strengthened under the Second Provincial Roads project, Loan
2311-TH.
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
3.11      The Department of Highways planned to carry out a series of studies
of road improvement needs in order to establish a long-term plan for National
and Provincial road development and to prepare future road construction and
improvement programs for the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-1986). The studies
were in three stages: Stage I, an overall screening or pre-feasibility study
of the national and provincial roads, which would establish a priority order
for construction and improvement; Stage II, feasibility studies of the roads
found to have high priority; and Stage III, detailed engineering of roads
selected from those found to be economically feasible. All studies were
financed under the Sixth Highway Project.
3.12      Proposals were invited  from a short list of consulting firms and
the Department of Highways selected an American firm in a joint venture with a
Thai firm and negotiated with them. This process, and the administrative
stages and approvals involved, took longer than expected and the contract was
awarded on April 23, 1979. The study started in December 1979, about six
months later than originally scheduled. The Stage I (Screening) Study was
performed over a ten-month period, and it had the following objectives:
(a) To screen all roads in the national and provincial road network and
establish an order of priority for their improvement at a
prefeasibility study level of detail;
(b) To identify individual road improvements which were likely to be
economically feasible in the period 1982-1986; and
(c) To recommend from these about 1,500 km of roads for which
improvement or construction should begin during the period 1982-
1986.
3.13      The Stage I study involved a preliminary review of the roads, to
evaluate the potential for supporting agricultural development and to
establish the physical conditions and traffic levels of the roads. In total,
202 road links of approx. 6,000 km in length were included in the study.
Subsequent economic analysis in the Stage II study showed that 76 had rates of
return greater than 12% and 102 had rates greater than 7Z, the remainder had
lower rates.



- 10 -
3.14      For the Stage III detailed engineering study, the Department of
Highways selected the same consulting firms which had carried out the previous
study stages and negotiated a contract with them. The contract was signed on
April 30, 1980. The scope of work included the preparing of design guidelines
and standard drawings, supervising production of final designs and contract
documents and making recommendations to the Department of Highways for the
award of the construction contracts. The task began in June 1980, somewhat
ahead of the schedule.
3.15      The roads were placed into three groups.  Group I comprised of 20
roads with a total length of approximately 778 km. These were roads which had
been selected by the DOH, some of which were already under design by local
consultants. For Group II there were 21 roads with a total length of 663
km. These roads were initially considered to be likely candidates for final
design, based on the results of the screening study. For Group III there were
32 roads with a total length of 918 km, these roads were selected during the
study. Detailed engineering was substantially completed by September 1981 on
most of these roads. Work on an additional group (23 roads of length
totalling 569 km) started in March 1981 and was completed by February 1, 1984.
3.16      This study was executed well and thb  consultants' performance was
good. Twenty four of these roads are now beiug constructed under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH), and ten more were included under the
Second Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2311-TH). The remainder have been built
under ADB and OECF loans, and also by Government solely from its own budget.
Rural Roads Study
3.17      It had two main parts:  (a) Organization and Maintenance Study:
aimed at recommending changes in the institution concerned with rural roads
(Ministry of the Interior), and particularly for setting up an adequate road
maintenance organization; and (b) Rural Road Development Study: aimed at
outlining a long-range program for improving rural roads, based on a screening
of the entire network, followed by the preparation of a five year improvement
program for priority roads. Proposals were invited from a short list of
consulting firms, and after evaluation, the Government selected one American
firm and one French firm in joint venture with two Thai firms and negotiated a
contract with them. The contract was &igned on September 16, 1980. The study
started in October 1980, about twenty months later than originally scheduled
due mainly to difficulties in deciding which agency should be in charge of it.
3.18      With regard to Organization and Maintenance, the study's final
report found that in general there was enough staff in the various departments
of Ministry of the Interior (MOI) to handle responsibilities for the rural
roads. However, to be more effective, a substantial reorganization was
required to clarify responsibilities and to reassign the staff in accordance
with needs. The consultants put forward three alternative proposals for this
reorganization and for deployment of MOI staff to assist the Changwats. These
consisted broadly of:
(a) formation of a new Department of Rural Roads which would consist
mainly of the roads staff of the office Accelerated Rural Develop--



- 11 -
ment (ARD) together with the smaller number of staff engaged on
rural road works in the Public Works Department (PWD) of the MOI.
The other activities of the Office of Accelerated Rural Development
(ARD) would be distributed among the Royal Irrigation Department
(small dams, reservoirs and tanks, etc.) and the Community
Development Department (social programs and well drilling). The
Public Works Department would continue with its present activities
less its rural road functions;
(b) formation of a Department of Rural Roads (as in (i) above) from the
rural roads staff of the ARD and the transfer of all other public
works of the ARD to the Public Works Department, and the transfer of
the ARD's social program to the Community Development Department;
and
(c) the combination of all public works activities, including rural
roads, of both the ARD and the PWD into one enlarged Public Works
Department and the transfer of the ARD's social programs to the
Community Development Department.
3.19      The consultants' proposals were submitted to the Government and were
reviewed by an Inter-ministerial Steering Committee. Subsequently, the Bank
Mission of February 1982 was informed that the Government was considering a
variant of the Consultant's proposals (b) and (c) along the following lines:
Office of Accelerated Rural Development would be reconstructed as a Rural
Development Department, to handle rural roads functions including those
presently carried out by Public Works Department and with the rural roads
staff transferred from Public Works Department. The Rural Development
Department would also continue to carry out the remaining public works
functions of the Office of Accelerated Rural Development, but the Office of
Accelerated Rural Development's social or non-works functions would be
transferred to the Community Development Department. The Public Works Depart-
ment would become a Municipal Works Department, with its present functions
less rural roads. However, in the final analysis, none of the proposals were
accepted by the Cabinet and no reorganization took place.
3.20      The other part of the Study of Rural Roads consisted of a screening
of the entire rural road network followed by feasibility studies of a selected
5,000 km. The 5,000 km were selected from roads proposed by the Office of
Accelerated Rural Development, the Public Works Department and the
consultants' own list. They were screened and ranked in accordance with their
priority rating and then weighted by region to give the overall balance
required by the Government: Northeast 50%, North 25%, South 10%, and Central
15x. This 5,000 km was to form the bulk of the Government's five-year
development program for rural roads. The detailed engineering of some of
these rural roads is to be carried out by the consultants financed under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH).



- 12 -
Inland Waterways Study
3.21      This study was actually the Phase III of an Inland Waterways project
proposal which consisted essentially of improving the Chao Phya river from
Angthong up to Nakhon Sawan in order to allow year round navigation, and the
building of a new inland port at Nakhon Sawan. The earlier Phase I had dealt
with general problems of inland waterways in the central basin of Thailand and
emphasized the benefits of improving the Chao Phya and the Nan river
waterways. Phase II provided a pre-feasibiliLy study of the improvement of
this waterway from Bangkok up to Uttaradit on the Nan river, and of new inland
ports in Nakhon Sawan, Tapan Hin, Phitsanulok and Uttaradit. Phase III
included the feasibility study and design of the river section up to the port
of Nakhon Sawan.
3.22      The objective of the study was to determine the least cost develop-
ment of the inland waterway system, given the extensive dredging and mainten-
ance works involved. In Thailand the main agricultural areas lie in the north
and northeast transportation corridors and to a lesser extent on the southern
peninsula. Development of road systems in the two corridors, as proposed
under the Sixth Highway project, would result in the funnelling of agriculture
produce to the port of Nakhon Sawan on the Chao Phya river, which is the focal
point of the two corridors. Products moving by river from NaKhon Sawon could
then be distributed either after transshipment at Klong Toei (Bangkok) or
directly, if barges are large enough, to coastal ports in the southern
peninsula; the reverse movement would also be feasible. Furthermore, the use
of southern coastal ports in conjunction with their hinterland roads was
necessary to move exports to deep water ports. Hence development of the
inland river port at Nakhon Sawan, improvement of waterways due north of it
and also due south to Bangkok, analysis of the coastal ports (para. 3.25) and
the required barge fleet, formed logical additions to the road systems slated
for development under this project. The study therefore covered all aspects
of the project: economy, river, river craft, ports and port equipment.
3.23      After inviting proposals for Phase III from a short list of
consulting firms, the Harbor Department of the MOC selected the same French
firm which carried out the Phase II study and negotiated with them. The
contract was signed on February 19, 1979, about seven months later than
originally scheduled at appraisal. The work was completed about four months
behind the schedule. The consultants recommended implementation of the
overall project. The main recommendations were as follows:
(a) The Harbor Department of the MOC had the following alternatives:
either stop the sand dredging (for the construction industry) above
Ayutthaya and have a navigable waterway, or continue dredging and
eliminate navigation on the lower Chao Phya river. Regular river
maintenance works, dredging and bank protection would nevertheless
have to be carried out.
(b) The Harbor Department should encourage implementation of a pilot
project using a pushed barge convoy and the replacement of the
existing fleet by modern vessels.



- 13 -
(c) The Harbor Department should assume financing and build all infra-
structure for the administrative area and general cargo terminal at
the port of Nakhon Sawan, whether they are publicly operated or
eventually leased. The Harbor Department should also finance the
construction of the dry bulk terminal, mineral ores terminal, cement
terminal and petroleum products terminal at the port of Nakhon Sawan
and then lease them.
3.24      Some of the study findings, e.g. the Chao Phya river dredging and
the construction of the port at Nakhon Sawan form part of the current Inland
Waterways project, Loan 1889-TH. A survey boat was also procured under the
sixth project.
Coastal Ports Study
3.25      A Coastal Ports study was included in the Sixth highway project to
survey complementary transport sector needs. Commissioning of the study
reflected the need for a long term masterplan to make development of coastal
ports complementary to the overall strategy of developing deep-sea ports at
Bangkok, Songkhla, Phuket and Sattahip. The coastal ports were originally
developed under private initiative to serve the local fishing industry and to
provide for domestic trade between isolated settlements at a time when land
transport was difficult or impossible, but their continued development had
become the responsibility of the MOC's Harbor Department. At appraisal (see
para. 3.22) the Government wished to ensure that costal ports development be
coordinated with other transport improvements, in particular those to the
country's network of national and provincial roads.
3.26      The principal objectives of this study of approx. 22 coastal ports
were first, to determine what operational improvements were needed, and
second, to establish the feasibility of improving facilities at these ports.
Of the 22 ports included, only seven (Bandon, Pak Panang, Chumphon, Pattani,
Kantang, Krabi and Samut Songkhram) handled significant volumes of cargo
traffic; together they accounted for 60% of all coastal cargo handled outside
of Bangkok.
3.27      After inviting proposals from a short list of consulting firms, the
Harbor Department selected a British firm in a joint venture with a Thai firm
and negotiated a contract with them. The contract was signed on February 2,
1979, about seven months later than originally scheduled. The study was
completed about six months behind appraisal schedule.
3.28      The study was done in two phases.  The first phase included a
limited field inspection of the ports and led to the selection of a small
number of ports for more detailed study. The second phase led to the recom-
mendations that (a) capital dredging should be undertaken at the ports of
Bandon, Ranong,[ Klong Tachin and Pattani; (b) a new trailing suction hopper
dredger should be acquired; (c) Fish Marketing Organization facilities at
Pattani should be improved; and (d) management of the Harbor Department
dredging activities should be reviewed.



- 14 -
3.29       The capital dredging at the ports of Bandon and Pattani was
included in the ongoing Inland Waterways Project, Loan 1889-TH. The trailing
suction hopper dredger is also being procured under that project.
Technical Assistance to the Department of Highways
3.30      The objectives of this component were (a) to help the DOH establish
and operate a revolving fund, and (b) to strengthen highway maintenance
planning.
3.31      This component originated from the recommendations of the "Study of
Highway Maintenance and Equipment Needs," carried out in 1974-76 under the
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH), in which the concept of the Revolving
Fund for the procurement, maintenance and replacement of the highway mainte-
nance equipment fleet was described. The revolving fund was to be part of a
general reorganization of the administration and organization of the
Department of Highways. The "Study of Highway Maintenance and Equipment
Needs" also recommended that most periodic road maintenance work should be
performed by contract.
3.32      After inviting proposals for technical assistance services from a
short list of consulting firms, the Department of Highways selected an
Australian firm and negotiated a contract with them. The contract was signed
on August 21, 1978, some six months later than originally scheduled. The work
was completed about eleven months behind the schedule and was carried out in
three phases:
(a) preparation phase, to formulate and fixualize operating details;
(b)  implementation and monitoring phase, covering the first full
financial year of revolving fund operation; and
(c)  evaluation and modification phase, to make the necessary eperational
changes.
The work was carried out by a team of three consultants, with some additional
input. They also conducted ten seminars and training conferences in Bangkok
and elsewhere to train the staff of the revolving fund and to explain the
various procedures (repair and shop servicing, parts and supply, costs and
statistical records, fleet management and utilization, data management,
accounts, highway maintenance methods, etc.) These seminars varied from two
days to one week.
3.33      The main recommendations were as follows:
(a) Revolving Fund
The revolving fund should be established in accordance with the
Regulations authorizing it, which were promulgated in August 1981. The
Department of Highways should place the remainder of its equipment within the
ownership and management of the Revolving Fund, and at the same time,
incorporate the Mechanical Division within the Revolving Fund organization.
In order to achieve this, consultants should be engaged.



- 15 -
(b) Highway Maintenance
The Department of Highways should introduce computerized methods of
equipment scheduling and alr., institute a highway maintenance costing system.
(c) Computer
The Department of Highways should prepare all necessary computer
programs for efficient Revolving Fund operation, engaging consultants if
required, and should install remote entry and intelligent computer terminals
in all 12 field divisions.
(d) Communications
The Department of Highways should provide vhf radio transceivers for
intra-field divisional communication.
3.34      Most of these recommendations are being implemented.  The revolving
fund unit was approved by the cabinet with a tentative start up date of
October 1, 1981; however, due to administrative and staffing difficulties, it
has only been financially operational since August 1983. (Its operations are
outlined in para 3.10). For highway maintenance, the DOH engaged consultants
under the provincial roads project, Loan 2035-TH. The maintenance system to
be developed will take into consideration all levels of maintenance in the
paved and unpaved road network and will establish a systematic road condition
inventory; actual implementation will be sometime in the future. As for the
computer, a Burroughs B1825 minicomputer was purchased and installed in the
DOH, under the sixth project. Finally, communications equipment will be
procured under the Provincial Roads Project Ln. 2035-TH.
Technical Assistance to the Transportation Planning Unit
3.35      To improve the planning and use of resources in the transport
sector, the Government had established a Transportation Planning Unit (TPU)
and had decided to institute a Transport Management information System (TMIS).
To make this Unit more effective, the Ministry of Communications decided that
assistance should be provided to the Unit for a period of about two years.
This was referred to as Phase III of the Transportation Planning Unit Project,
and was a continuation of the consulting services provided by French
consultants under the earlier Phase I and II (in 1975-1977), as follows:
(a) Phase I of the services was aimed at making recommendations for an
efficient functioning of the Transportation Planning Unit and at
designing the TMIS.
(b) Phase II was aimed at assisting the MOC in implementing the Phase I
recommendations and training the staff of the TPU. Port development
policies were an important aspect of this phase of the services.
(c) The Phase III services were initiated under a separate contract
between the Ministry of Communications and French consultants in
January 1980, more than two years after the end of Phase II. These



- 16 -
services were aimed at assisting the TPU staff in doing specific
studies, the further development of the TMIS, and advising the MOC
as necessary.
3.36      The consulting services concentrated on two studies in which the
Ministry had vested the highest priority; these were: (a) a study of energy
policies applicable to the transportation sector; and (b) a study of road user
taxation. Other subjects were covered by the Consultants to varying degrees,
such as highway traffic statistics, international comparisons of road vehicle
weights and dimensions, pricing and regulation of transportation services,
deep-sea port development policy, identification of new inland waterway
projects and the impact of crude oil discoveries at Larn Krabue and Sukhothai
on inland waterways development. They also reviewed or prepared terms of
reference for a port development mission, for the survey of the trucking
industry, for a regional transportation plan for the Eastern Seaboard and for
Bangkok Second International Airport. In addition, a large part of the
consultancy service was devoted to developing TMIS for the road subsector.
3.37      The consultancy services were to last for about two years, but due
to lengthy delays in data acquisition and processing, the contract was
extended to July 1982. The technical assistance provided had a significant
impact on the TPU's institutional development.
Overseas Training
3.38      A total of 41 professional staff of the Department of Highways had
completed overseas training courses in various subjects by the end of 1978.
This training was financed by the First, Third, and Fifth Highway Projects.
With the improvement and expansion of Thai universities, all courses were
provided locally except for a limited range of specialized subjects. The
Sixth Highway Project included specialized training for more DOH staff
members. Four staff members were trained in transportation engineering, one
in photogrammetry, and two in transportation economics. Most of the courses
were conducted at overseas institutions, but two staff members were trained at
the Asian Institute of Technology.
3.39      The Sixth Highway Project also provided fellowships for eight man-
years of overseas training in transportation planning and economics for the
staff of the Transportation Planning Unit. Five staff members have completed
training courses and have returned to contribute to the unit's work program.
IV. PROJECT COST AND BANK LOAN
Project Costs
4.01      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, was about
4,134.6 million Baht, or a total of about US$194.4 million equivalent. The
foreign exchange component was about US$102.6 million, or about 53% of the
total cost. The total cost is about 6% less than the US$206.7 million
estimated at appraisal. The underrun of about US$12.3 million was mostly due
to savings of about US$6.2 million in road construction costs and also of



- 17 -
about US$3.9 million in highway maintenance equipment. The items which
exceeded the appraisal estimates were the construction supervision, by about
$0.1 million, and the right of way acquisition, by about US$7.9 million.
Details of actual costs and appraisal estimates are given in Table 3.
4.02      The reasons for the civil work cost underrun were the excellent
control of physical and price contingencies. No contract exceeded the 10%
physical contingencies built into the appraisal estimates because contractors
generally managed their works well and the DOH did strict supervision. For
price contingencies, civil works contracts included a clause which stipulated
essentially that payments to cover them would only be triggered if prices had
escalated by 5% or more. In most periods, prices increased by less than 5%
and hence were absorbed by the contractor. Actual payments to cover price
contingencies were therefore negligible. The other reasons for the underrun
in total project cost arose from changes in the rates of exchange and the use
of a basket of currencies during project implementation. At the rate of
exchange prevailing during appraisal, the total cost of the project should
have been equivalent to US$202.7 million. However, the actual total cost was
US$194.4 million, resulting in a cost reduction of US$8.3 million.
Loan Disbursements
4.03      Cumulative disbursements (detailed in Table 7) compared to appraisal
estimates were as follows:
FY78      FY79       FY80      FY81       FY82      FY83       FY84
($--------- (     million                     -------------------
Appraisal     10.0       37.0      71.0       92.0      108.0     110.0         -
Actual         5.1       25.5      61.4       78.6      90.9       99.3      102.6
It should be noted that even though there was some delay intially in disburse-
ments, due to late contract awards etc, the overall profile compares well with
appraisal estimates. It was faster than the standard country profile would
suggest.
Reallocation of Loan Funds
4.04      At the Government's request, the Bank loan funds were reallocated on
June 10, 1982 to use the unallocated portion. Subsequently, on July 12, 1983
US$7.4 million of the loan was cancelled at the Government's request. The
loan was closed on May 18, 1984 and the remaining undisbursed balance
(US$29,443.90) was cancelled. The following table shows the original and
actual allocation of loan proceeds.



- 18 -
Category                 Loan Agreement   Reallocation of   Actual as of
June 10, 1982     May 18, 1984
---------------   (US$ million) -----------
1.   Civil Works                    54,000            66,100          63,727
2.   Equipment, vehicles, survey
boat and spare parts         17,800            23,740          21,506
3.   Consultant' s services         15,600            17,100           17,160
4.   Fellowships                       200               180              178
5.   Unallocated                    22,400             2,880                0
Total                       110,000           110,000         102,571 /a
/a   The actual amount was US$102,570,556.10.
Fulfillment of the Main Loan Covenants
4.05      Compliance with covenants (Table 8) was generally satisfactory.
More could have been done on the maintenance program where budgetary provi-
sions generally lagged needs by about one year. The Government has since
agreed to take appropriate steps under the second provincial road project,
Loan 2311-TH. Similarly, administrative and bureaucratic delays adversely
affected the agreed implementation timing for other measures such as the
revolving fund, and construction of the link roads and bridges. The
Government also adhered to agreements on toll policies and the extension of
the road traffic monitoring system.
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
5.01      In addition to assisting the Government of Thailand in attaining its
road construction goals, the Sixth Highway Project contributed to the
development of all institutions involved in the road subsector and prepared
the basis for several follow-on projects (some of which were financed by other
aid agencies). The main beneficiary institutions were the Department of
Highways (DOH) and the Transportation Planning Unit (TPU) of the Ministry of
Communications and to a certain extent, the Ministry of the Interior.
Ministry of Communications
5.02      The DOH's road maintenance capability was considerably strengthened
and the issue of the perennially inadequate maintenance funds was also
addressed. The maintenance program was particularly helped by the provision
of technical assistance to establish the revolving fund. Further technical
assistance to the DOH is being provided under the Second Provincial Roads
project, Loan 2311-TH.
5.03      The TPU was considerably strengthened by the training program
especially because it provided staff training in fields, such as transporta-
tion economics and highway investment planning, which were not previously



- 19 -
emphasized in Thailand. The TPU capability has improved significantly but for
certain assignments it continues to use consulting services. These services
are usually aimed at assisting the TPU in doing specific technical studies and
in the further development of the transport management information system
(TMIS). Further technical assistance is being provided to the TPU under the
Provincial Roads project, Loan 2035-TH.
Ministry of the Interior
5.04      The "Organization and Maintenance" component of the rural roads
study addressed complex issues affecting the many agencies concerned with
rural roads. These agencies included the Public Works Department and the
Office of Accelerated Rural Development in the MOI, as well as the Royal
Irrigation Department and the Community Development Department. The proposals
to reform the rural roads agencies as designed under the study were not
implemented bcause of decisions made by the Cabinet. However, the MOI has
benefited from the conduct of the study itself as it has helped to define the
issues more clearly. Discussions on the future administration of rural roads
can now be more properly focused. This will be increasingly helpful as
the Government turns its attention to the, so far lower priority, rural
(tertiary) roads.
Road Subsector Policies
5.05      The exchange of views between the Bank and Government has helped in
the evolution of road subsector policies. Of these, the most important are
the greater priority now being given to maintenance of the road network,
adoption of the most cost-effective designs and the use of studies to analyze
the effect of tolls before allowing their introduction or a road section.
VI. SCONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.01      The economic re-evaluation compared the benefits and the costs of
constructing the roads, for an assumed life of 15 years. The economic costs
of the project include all outlays, net of taxes and duties. Also included
are the cost differentials of routine maintenance and periodic resurfacing
required to maintain the standard of the road surface with and without the
road construction or improvements works.
6.02      Road user benefits were determined using the standard vehicle
operating costs and travel time costs, which were developed by the Post
Evaluation Section of the Planning Division in the Department of Highways as
part of feasibility studies for national highways and provincial roads in
Thailand. Vehicle operating costs were calculated for the eight types of
vehicles using the road, i.e., motorcycle (MC), cars (PC), light bus (LB),
medium bus (MB), heavy bus (HB), light truck (LT), medium truck (MT) and heavy
truck (UT). There has been an increase in vehicle operating costs, largely
due to the escalation of fuel and other costs, since the project was appraised
in 1975. Compared with the appraisal figures, the vehicle operating costs are
estimated to have increased by about 85-145% for motorcycles, car, light bus
and light truck; and about 150-240Z for medium and heavy buses, and medium and
heavy trucks. The basic variable and fixed costs by vehicle type, road
surface and geometric condition, and operating speed were also calculated. A
summary of the operating costs for various types of vehicles is presented in



- 20 -
Table 5. In the calculation of time benefits, average running speeds, with
and without the improvement, and average occupancy of passenger vehicle were
taken into account.
Traffic
6.03      For this economic reevaluation, traffic counts were carried out at
various locations in 1984 to determine the actual traffic using the roads. As
a basis for estimating the travel distance savings accruing to this traffic,
the Post Evaluation Section also did new origin-destination (0-D) surveys at
that time. The O-D survey results were used to prepare trip matrices, showing
the number of trips between %ones by type of vehicle. From these matrices it
was possible to assign traffic to road sections with and without the
project. The comparisons of actual and forecast traffic in 1984 are shown in
Table 4.
6.04      Average annual daily traffic (AADT) in 1984 varied among the project
roads from about 130 vehicles per day (vpd) to 5,700 vpd. Actual traffic
volumes on four roads, Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok, Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot,
Ban Bung-Klaeng, and Bo Phloi-Dan chang, were about equal to traffic projected
at appraisal. Actual traffic on another four roads, Bang Bua Thong-
Suphanburi, Sam Khok-Sena, Ban Sali-Ayutthaya, and Bo Phloi-U Thong, were
somewhat less than projections. However, actual traffic on the remaining
roads, Ban Bung-Ban Khai, Hat Yai-Chana and Hat Yai-Samyaek Khuha, exceeded
projections. The actual traffic growth rates were between 3.11 and 9.1Z p.a.,
while the growth rates for traffic projected at appraisal ranged between 32
and 122 p.a.
Re-estimated Rates of Return
6.05      The analysis showed that the project roads, both taken individually
and as a whole, are fully justified economically. The re-estimated economic
rates of return (ERR) are summarized below:
Road Section                             Length (km)    ERR (2)
Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok                          126            19
Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot                       84            18
Ban Bung-Klaeng                                    88            35
Ban Bung-Ban Khai                                  74            20
Bang Bua Thong-Suphanburi                          74            20
Ban Sali-Ayutthaya                                 37            19
Sam Khok-Sena                                      30            21
Bo Phloi-U Thong                                   38            18
Bo Phloi-Dan Chang                                 78            27
Hat Yai-Semyaek Khuha                              23            20
Hat Yai-Chana                                      36            14
The comparisons of ex-post and original estimates of economic rates of return
are shown in Table 6.  The overall ERR for the 11 roads was approximately
202. In all except one case, Ban Bung-Ban Khai, the re-estimated economic



- 21 -
rates of return were less than the appraisal estimates. This is partly
because the actual traffi. volumes are less than the volimes projected at
appraisal and also partly due to increased operating costs.
VII. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
7.01      The project continued and expanded the dialogue between the
Government and the Bank started under the previous five projects. This has
led to the further evolution and implementation of policies and programs in
the road transport subsector. Moreover, the studies provided the Government
with a planning framework and led directly to Bank involvement with the
secondary and tertiary road network as well as with inland waterways and
coastal ports.
7.02      In terms of policy development, the continued dialogue on
maintenance funding and reviews of road transport regulations led to further
development of road transport policy. There is now a stronger emphasis on
transport investment planning and the design of least-cost alternatives. Bank
involvement contributed to improving the quality of the projects which are now
both better technically designed and implemented. This appears to be
generally true both for construction works and for maintenance organization
and operation. In addition, the efficiency of the road transport industry,
highway maintenance and planning capabilities have all improved.
7.03      During supervision missions, the Bank staff assisted in solving
various problems associated with project implementation. The extensive use of
local consultants and the Bank's support in this venture has led to the
development of a competent local industry. Now, selected foreign consultants
can be used in a mostly Thai team to do feasibility studies and detailed
engineering.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01      The project was satisfactorily implemented and accomplished its
major objectives. Despite initial delays, the civil works component was well
executed and all roads had adequate re-estimated rates of return. The
emphasis on maintenance was timely and led to more adequate arrangements for
protecting the road networks. All of the various studies led to follow-on
projects, and the technical assistance and training helped significantly to
develop road subsector organizations in Thailand. Finally, the project helped
to focus the Government's attention on the previously very t.ow priority rural
(tertiary) road network.



I   &
I,\



TIUILAUW
SX11 RICEWAY PROJECT (LOAm 1519-TN)
PROJECT CO02PLETION REPORT
Actual and Expected Project Implemantation
Contractor/consultant             Btd receipt       Contract awrd    BDgtng of work  Cmpletion of vork Z of works completed by
Project component                          and nationality                 Actual  Ezpected   Actual  Expecpected   Actual  Expected expected completion date
Construction atd Improent of
Nhtional and Provinclal Roan
Group At Consultant              Vallentine, Laurie & Davies
Nakhon Savan - Phiteanulok     Garson & Sons Ltd. (That)               09/20/77  09/02/77  05/09/78  02/28/78  05/17/78  03/01/78  06/22/82  12/31/81           82
Ban hait Badan - Dan Ohun Thot Liu Ca roen Onotruction, Ltd. (Thai)   09/06/77  09/02/77  05/04/78  02/28/78 05/17/78  03/01/78  07/20/81  03/01/81             92
Ban Bung - EleenS              Vich bhan, Ltd. (Thai)                  08/23/77  09/02/77  05/04/78  02/28/78  03/01/78  10/02/81  10/02/81  03/01/81           84
Ban lung - Dan Xhai            A.S. Associated Dagineetrig, Ltd. (Thai) 08/23/77  09/02/77  06/15/76  02/28/78  07/03/78 03/01/78  02/12/82  12/31/80           79                1
Group St  Onsultant              Snowy Mountainas Egineering Corporation
Bang Bus Thong - Suphanburi    mopawong C mcial Ltd./(Thai)            11/01/78  04/30/78  04/12/79  06/15/78  05/01/79  06t31/78  11/30/83 06/01/82            55
Ban  ali - Ayuthaya            Si Soeng tothakarn Ltd./Thai Wato WMorn  11/04/76 04/30/78  04/12/79  06/15/78  05/01/79 06/31/78  11/07/82  12/31/81            69
VWat Udorn Thanl Ltd/
Sahaaak Ltd. Joint Venture (Thai)
Sam Ehok - Sans                Si Saeang Yothakarn Ltd./That Watn Udorn  11/04/76 04/30/78 04/12V79  06/15/78  05/01/79  06/31/78  11/07/82  12/31/81           71
Vatn Udorn Thanti Ltd/
Sahsak, Ltd. Joint Venture (Thai)
Do Phloi - U tbong             Namprasert cholburi, Ltd. (Thai)        12/09/77  09/02/77  06/26/78  02/28/78  07/03/78  03/01/78 05/07/80  12/31/80           100
Do Phlol - Dan (ffan           Prayoon Viava Engineering Co. Ltd.      08/26/77  09/02/77  06/26/78  OV28/78 07/03/78  03/01/78  05/07/80  12/31/80            100
(Tbai)
Rat tai - Samyaek Ehuha        Nopawng Coaercial, Ltd. (Thal)          08/26/77  09/02/77  05/08/78 02/28/78  02/26/78  03/01/78  11/15/80  12/31/80           100
fat ati - (laxna               Sabakol Engineers  Ltd. (Thai)          08/26/77  09/02/77  05/08/78 02/28/78  02/26/78 03/01/78  11/15/SO  12/31/80            100
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'h



Contractor/conaultaut              8i4 receipt      Contract award   Deal ing of work   Completion of work N of works comploted by
Project componnt                           and nottovality                  Mtu I  EXPOeted  Aceuil  ihpectd   Actual  Erpected   Actl  Rpected expected completion date
Supervision of Road Contruction    Vallentine, Laurie 6 Davies (Australia)    -        -      04/19/78  02/28/78  06/01/78 03/01/78  01/31/83  12/31/81
Snowy mountain Enginsering (Australia)    -         -      04/19/78  06/15178  06/01178 07/3L/78 01131/84  12131/81
HigRtay Iiatenance kquipmat                                                08101/78  06/15178 01/31/79 09/30/76      -        -      06128/82 09/30/79
survey Boat                                                                   N/A      1VA   OU28/80    N/A         -        -      07122/80    N/A
Studies and BMineeria
National and Provincial goads
Study of National and          Louis lerer Tnt./Asian  gtinee8ring        N/A   03/31/78  04/23179 08/31178 0/17/79 09/30178 02129/80 03/31/79
Provincial Road Network        (US/Thai)
in Thailan (Stage I)
Detailed engineering Group I   Thai Consulting firs   D08                 -         -     03/06/80  10131180 03/06/80  11/30/80  10/10/80  11130181
Detailed engineering Group rI  DOR                                        -         -        -      10/31/80    N/A   11/30/80    N/A   11/30/SI
Detailed engineering Group III Thai Consulting Firm 6 DO                 -         -      09/25/60  10/31/80 09/25/60  11/30/80 06/30/81  11/30/81
Detailed engineering Group IV   Thi Coulting Firms & D08                  -         -      08/17/81    N/A   03/17/81    N/A   02/01/84       N/A
Design Supervision             Louis Berger Int./Asian Engineeriag        -         -     04/30/80  10/31/80 06/01/80  11/30/80    N/A   11/30/81
(US/That)
Highway Naintensace and        VallAntines Laurie h Davies                N/A   11/30/77  08/21/78  02/28/78  09/01/78  02/28/78    N/A   03/31/80
Equipant Revolving Fund        (Australia)
Study of Riral roads           8C0CELSII/AEC/URCC (trance/US/          08/01/78  07/31/78 09/16/80  12V15/78  10/12/80 03/01/79  10120181 03/01/80
Thail/Tai)
Inland Waterways Study         BCECt (France)                          03/17/78  03/31/78  02/19/79  06/30/78  12/01/78  08/01/78  12/01/78 071/31/79
Costal Ports Study              aunsell and Partners (U/Autra"a)    04/27/78  03/31/78  01/02/79  06/30/78  12/01/78 08/01/78  04/01/80  09/30/79
Techac.l. Assistance and Trainai
DOs/Nquip_ent Revolvins Fu       Valleatine, Laurie 6 Davies (Australia)    N/A   11/30/77  08/21/78  02/28/78    16/A   02/28/78      I/A   03/31180
TPU/road user charges            BOCRO (France)                             N6A    12/31/78    N/A   03/131/79 01/06/80 06/01/79  07/20/82  11/30/80
Training - DOl                                                                             -             -      10/02/78 09/30/78  12/28/82 06130/82
Training - TPU                      -                                       _         _                  -      O927/78 09/30/78  12/27/82 03/31/81
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j



TUAILMND
SIXTH HIG1IAY PROJECT (LOAN 119-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Construction Contract$
(Aunts In BEht illion)
Work completed      Estimated add'l cost  Estimated total cost
Contract    Contract amount                         to complete contract    to copltion
period      (at bid prices)   At bid   At current At 9                            Acrent  Pcurret  Progress (2) to
Provincial roads                 Length (km)         Contractor /a         (months)   OrtgtnaI   l        prices      prices    prices      prices    prices      prices      02  /01/84
Consultants:
V_llenttne, Laurie 6 Davies
Nakhon Sawvn-Phitsanulok             126     terson & Sons Ltd.              42        377.1    414.8    414.8       468.9       -           -        414.8      468.9          100
(+ 14 km access road)                    (05/17/78-11/17/81)                                                            (completed 11/7/82)
Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khus Thot         84      1Am Charoan Construction.       38        224.5     234.4   234.4       277.9       -           -        234.4      277.9          100
Ltd.                 (05/17/78-07/27/81)                                                            (completed 07/21/81)
Ban Bung-lKlaeng                     88      Vichitbhsn, Ltd.                37        291.3    301.7   301.7        382.8      -            -        301.7      382.8          100
(+ 3 Ic access raod)                    (05/17/78-o7/O2/Al)                                                            (completed 08/12/81)
Ban Bung-Ban Ihai                    74      A.S. Associated Engineering     32        154.3      169.3    158.6     200.2       -           -        158.6      200.2          100
(+ 6 km access road) Ltd                (07/03/78-03/17/81)                                                            (completed 02/12(82)
Consultants:  Snowy Mountains
inginvering Corporation
Bang Bua Thong-Suphenburi            74      Nopavong Cozmercial Ltd.        48        419.5      421.6
(+ 2 I= access road)                    (05/01/79-04/30/83)
Ban Sali-Ayutthaya                   37      Si Saeng Yothakarn, Ltd./       42        241.3      243.2   243.2      323.6       -           -        243.2      323.6          100
(+ 2 Im   Thai Watn Udorn         (05/01/79-10/31/82)                                                            (completed 02U08/83)
access road) Than, Ltd./Sehasak,
Ltd. Joint Venture
San Rhok-Sena                        30      St Soeng Yothakarn, Ltd./       42        206.1     210.8    210.8    277.5         -           -        210.8      277.5          100
(+ 10 km  That Watn Odorn          (0501/79-10/31/82)                                                             (completed 11/07/82)
access road) Thani, Ltd./Sahasak,
Ltd. Joint Venture
So Phloi-U Thong                     39      Noaprasert Cholburi, Ltd.       30         66.4       66.8    58.8       68.8       -           -         58.8       68.8          100
(07/03/78-01/02/81)                                                           (completed 05/07/80)
Bo Phlot-Dan Chang                   78      Prayoon Visava                  30         111.7     111.5    99.7      108.4       -           -         99.7      108.4          100
(05/17/78-11/16/80)                                                            (completed 02t11/80)
Hat Yai-Samyak Khuba                 23      Novawong Commerclal, Ltd.       30         96.9      96.5    89.4       102.5       -           -         89.4      102.5          100
(+ 8 k access road"                     (05/17/78-11/16/80)                                                            (completed 11/15/80)
Hot Ytal-Chana                       36      Sahakol Engineers, Ltd.         30         126.5     127.3   120.6    140.9         -           -        120.6      140.9          100
(05/17/78-11/16/80)                                                            (completed 12/05/80)
Totals                          688                                              2,322.7   2,415.3  2,354.1   2,998.1                           2.354.1    2,998.1
(+ 45 kmc. access road)



THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
Equipment Contracts
(Amounts in Baht million)
Number of                                        Contract   Contract amount         Estimated total       Progress
units                                           period    (at bid prices)       cost to completion       (X) to
Original  Revised          Contractor                  (days)   Original  Revised   At bid    At current  (06/28/82)
prices      prices
Group I
Inspection vehicles 3-1/2
tons flatbed truck                       108       141      Tri Petch Isuzu Sales Co., Lt.   210        21.457    28.013    28.013       28.013          100
6 Ton flatbed truck with spare parts        89       10S      Thai Hino Sales Co., Lt.           300      36.279    42.610    42.610       42.610          100
4 C.M. damp truck with spare parts         226       272      Tri Petch Isuzu Sales Co., Lt.   210        64.665    77.470    77.470       77.470          100
Water tank truck                            47        55      Tri Petch Isuzu Sales Co., Lt.   270        13.426    15.711    15.711       15.711          100
Lubrication truck                            12       12      Thai Hino Sales Co., Lt.            300      6.230      6.230     6.230       6.230          100
Group II
Truck tractor (Mack) with spare parts       12        12      East Asiatic Thailand Co., Lt.   300        15.609    15.609    15.609       15.609          100
Low boy trailer with spare parts             12       12      Pan Supplies Co., Lt.               180      2.606      2.760      2.760      2.760          100
Plant trailer 8-1/2 tons                    47        55      World Engineering Supply            270      5.640      6.600     6.600       6.600          100
Co., Lt.
Group III
Motor grader (catterpillar)                 95        95      Metro Machinery Co., Lt.            300     89.254    89.254    89.254       89.254          100
120 G. with spare parts                     16        16      Metro Machinery Co., Lt.           300      20.670    20.670    20.670       20.670          100
Group IV
Maintenance Roller with spare parts         103      118      Nippitar Partnership                420     48.282    30.093    30.093       30.093          100
Group V
Industrial tractor loader backhoe            6         6      Lauis T. Leonovens Co., Lt.         300      2.728      2.728      2.728      2.728          100
Industrial tractor fitted with
hydraulic Arm mower (John Deer)           36        52      East Asiatic Thailand Co., Lt.   250        14.926    21.560    21.560       21.560          100
Croup VI
Grass mower (pedestrian)                   101       125      United Motor Work Co.               150      0.399      0.494      0.494      0.494          100
Mud pup 3 with spare parts                  62        62       World Engineering Supply           300      2.485      2.485      2.485      2.485          100
Co., Lt.
Tandem Vibrating Rollers (Bomag             136      136      International Engineering           210     37.441    37.441    37.441       37.441          100
Model EM, 90A) with components                                Co., Lt.
and spare parts
Virating plate tampus with component       110       114      United Machinery Co., Lt.           210      1.280      1.322      1.322      1.322          100
Bailey type bridge with ramps and           24        24      R. Schalle Ltd.                     240     38.619    38.449    38.449       38.449          100
spare parts
Total                                                                                            421.969   439.472   439.472    439.472



THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Consultants Contracts Costs
(amounts in B '000)
Contract amount       Actual total cost
Man-       (at bid prices)          at completion
Project Item/Consultant                    months    Original    Revised    Original    Revised
Supervision of Road Construction
Vallentine, Laurie& Davies                              2,810        95.5        -          106.2        -
Snowy Mountains Engineering                             2,720       111.0        -         119.1         -
Studies and Engineering
National and Provincial Roads
Study of national and provincial road                 443        28.0        -          28.0         -
Network in 7hailand (LBIl/AEC)
Detailed Engineering Group I
(7 Thai consultants and DOH)                          N/A        9.8         -           9.4        -
Detailed Engineering Group II (DOH)                   N/A          -         -            -          -
Detailed 1!rineering Group III
(7 Thai consultants and DOH)                          N/A         6.6        -           6.3         -
Detailed Engineering Group IV (POBS)                  N/A        13.0        -          12.0         -
Design Supervision (LBII/AEC)                         147         7.6        -           7.8         -
Highway maintenance and equipment                     169        21.5        -          22.1         -
Revolving Fund (VLD)
Rural Roads
BCEOM/LBII.AEC/UECC                                   594        37.4        -          37.2         -
Inland Waterways
BCEOM                                                  60        12.7        -          12.7         -
Coastal Ports
Maunsell and Partners                                 N/A         7.1        -           7.1         -
Technical Assistance and Training
DOl/Equipment Revolving Fund                             /a         /a         -
TPU/road User Charges                                    48         9.0        -           8.5         -
Training - DOH                                            -         2.4        -           2.4
Training - TPU                                            -         1.5        -            1.5        _
la  Included in Techiacal Assistance Services for Highway Maintenance and Equipment Revolving Fund.
N/A - Not available



- 28 -
Table 3
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Artual and Forecast Estimates of Project Costs
Actual cost as
Initial   Forecast estimate of Cost          Actual cost                 irton of
contract       Baht   4illlon)              Baht (million)         aotrecast UYntraet
Project Component                 amount                rcal   Foreign   Total   Loea    Foreign  Tota    estimate   amount
A. Construction and Improvement of
Provincial Roads
1.  Nakhon Sawan - phiteanuloK    371.2       268.4       216.3    484.6   292.9    240.8   533.7         110        141
2.  Ban Chai Badan-Dan Xhun Thot  224.5       160.7       128.5    289.2   157.1    132.9   290.0         lOO        129
3.  Ban Bung-Klaeng                 298.3     212.5       170.5    383.0   207.2    175.6   382.8         100        128
4.  Ban Bung-Ban Khai               154.3     110.2        87.8    198.0   111.6      92.2   203.8        103        132
5.  Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Burt    419.5       337.0       271.0    608.0   317.5    248.6   566.1          93        135
6.  Ban Sali-Ayutthaya              241.3     190.5       152.7    343.2   177.0    146.6   323.6          94        134
7.  Sam Rhok-Sena                   206.1     168.5       136.2    304.7   154.3    123.2   277.5          91        135
8.  Bo Phloi-U Thong                 66.4      49.2        40.7     89.9    37.8       30.9    68.7        76        103
9.  Bo Phloi-Dan Chang              111.7      80.3        63.6    143.9    59.7       48.8   108.5        75         97
10. Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha           96.9       68.7        56.0    124.7    56.4      46.1   102.5         82        106
11. Hat Yai-Chana                   126.5      90.7        72.6    163.3    77.5      63.4   140.9         86       111
Subtotal A                2,322.7   1,736.6    1,395.9  3,132.5 1,649.0  1,349.1 2,988.1           96        129
B.  Supervision of A                    196.4      123.1       99.3    222.4   143.6       81.7   225.3       101        115
C.   Maintenance Equipment              420.0      116.7      456.8    573.5    50.9    439.5   490.4          86        117
D.  Survey Boat                           4.7         -          -         -       -        4.7      4.7        -        100
E. Studies and Engineering
1 *NatIon-al and Provincial Roads
Study of national and                                                                          I
provincial road             28.8  1                                  15.6     12.4    28.0  J               100
Detailed Engineering                 I
Group I                      9.8                                      9.4       -       9.4                  96
Detailed Engineering
Group II                       -  )   72.6         58.5    131.1       -        -        -        65          -
Detailed EnRgineering                }
Group III                    6.6  1                                   6.3       -       6.3  }               95
Detailed Engineering                                                                           )
Group IV (POBS)             13.0  1                                  12.0       -      12.0                  92
Design supervision             7.6  }                                   3.6      4.2      7.8                 103
Highway maintenance and              }
equipment revolving fund   21.5                                       5.9     16.2    22.1  )               103
2.  Study of Rural Roads             37.4       2.6         8.9      11.5    21.0      16.2    37.2       323         99
3.  Inland Waterways Study           12.7       3.9        17.8     21.7       -       12.7    12.7        59        lCO
4.  Coastal Ports Study               7.1        1.3        6.4       7.7      -        7.1     7.1        92        100
Subtotal E                  144.5       80.4       91.6    172.0    73.8       68.8   142.6        83         99
F. Technical Assistance and Training
1.  Department of Highways            2.4       2.6        10.2     12.8       -        2.4     2.4        19        100
2.  Ministry of Communications       10.5       2.6        10.2      12.8     1.7      8.3    10.0         78        95
Subtotal F                   12.9        5.2       20.4      25.6      1.7     10.7    12.4        48         96
Total Cost of Works       3,102.2   2,062.0    2,064.0  4,126.0 1,919.0  1J954.5 3,863.S           94        124
C.  Right-of-Way                            -        90          -        90    261.1        -    261.1       290
Total cost of Project                2,152.0    2,064.0  4,216.0 2,180.1  1,954.5 4,124.6          98
The Project costs of technical assistance are included in Item E (1) Highway Maintenance and Equipment revolving
Fund. The movement of economic indicators are as follows:
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Rate of exchar3e                                20.38   20.46   20.53   21.87   23.05   23-.S   23.05
Consumer price irdex                            70.50   76.00   83.60  100.00  112.70  118.60  123.00
Percentage (X)                                   7.00   1000   19.00   12.70    5.00    3.00



29.-                                Table 4
Page - of2 
----     ---   ---    ---     ---  -  -  -   -  ---_---_________j.-
*      1n-1~~'  1  1 
I  t~~~~~~~-
j~~~~~~~~~--                       - - - i  i  --  "_                1  'v$ .
I~~~   ~~ 'i Ei  I 
i, Rla        - i                                -. t4% 4% -
ai~~i
1     V               "b*=                 sX4t-X 
_'J  '.                                anl~  wsnssls           R
S  Z  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
I  .V1   I     E{             aaSfi                  g-d 
i~~=a .3jmz-2;_                       ,sisgsg 
t-1''X'-                -4%       ;;Ss         as$::l                s:2; 
-i- - i  41                          - --------------- ----------
i                 Wt3                      a:z                     ** :*2       ^E^ss
3 EE   j I : I:            4 'S     4-s  43!;               4C3 4S                 j
. .                        a    iXBXX     zXX|s    
|          j~I  E                 -- --5         fjj         ;g            ~|
-  _ _ _ _ _  4................. _____~___________



still RsUSmi IWICI 18.34  859-1
PUJECT CWLETIU REPOt
ads.k An P00CM)T aiMF , 113
-I    -------------     ------ ----    ---  - -..--..----- --------. --.- - - - - -- -.----- .- ----- -
IECtI8I                          ACTIA  FRCASI ACTUL NUOEMI ACTUAL FUEMI ACTUA  F91M? ACTUAL FORCAT KCIMA  F05M? KC IM  FORCST KMUA  FYI=AS                                ACIS.        P95CM      I
----       --    ---     ---- -I----                  - ----- --------------------------.*-* --......----------
DALKI - J.INfE 3111 (KM()                            454      fl     334   t,548       23     39"     173              49      520    7I"      133     214             411    4US            2,035           ,9
I  J.mm  E3III I 1) - U?U IU A                           209       32     235   1,31       53     31       121              44    S2u      543      133     144             22      441           1,31463W ,
-  ------ ---- 
1  M   KHOK - A   SAt                                      219             547  2,195       49      -       123             130     034     774      IN      363             "I94    WI            2,147          4,W5
I  3    SAUIA- GMI                                         211      -      3162,195         33               34      -       t 21334        Su       INS     124             Am40    "I            8,90,          4,045V j
go MlO) -Uu TM224    174                                                      52    5so       44      174      23               2     404     297       If      4a              so    8In              531          I'M12kw
I                                                                                                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I     sNio It-Nu   FMU                                        46       34      1        95       3     103      43       -       52     384     79      125     13        -      120     190          8,242            32191
8  NM  MOihi-UIUIon                                        302     412       3      14      82       87      It1     -                I      is       47      i3s              3      84             fit            lo01I
8  NM  am NO uOACMAS                                       302  1,371        3      It      12       43      18      -        9     243      13       It      13      -        3     141             129            US0111
I                                                                                                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                                                                                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ml AI A- cmiI                                               559      412     494     417     23       SU               -       19     113     414      1,44    231      -      13      842           I,9m           1,0541
18341 TAt - 93311K MmS                                      24   8,741       45      445     219      1ie              -      ITT     to0     95      359      443      -        3     640           2,13           2,002 1
hIts I 1 ThM Ioracal. traffic Is fram the .as8bility stsdy rapwt.
21 Pw ldats Sown - PhilsmWIs road, th  forecast traffic as lathe  Ia.. - 3.1Uts 1047 mcli. lIsn  swrap traffit am ListA I sad Usk 2,
3 od thera  horgcn KIsag tica  th  foacat*  t1 ffc.   a Bn -      1.9tsHS KIO   g0.SWA 338setites    tisa   a 3rg  trafsic eOfList IA andLIbii,11  epr.0   a.1
adf     n    q-Dogrl the forecast tralfce  19.. 01-  ..t a8 he tI  I. - n 11avutg,  Ia Scicm IsA 3 awnd rSf ti  sof tiheI fad ih kIll  mtd   aer.0.
the forecat traffic a em  isl  338 - King Ai. Wan Chau  mtcli  Is an sapeag  tralfig es Li  I  SW  tad L     3, ad the forecat t,aif Ic.
em till Ashos lan  C.e  - OlN"gKcatI. eSs s WIg  trf fic ea List I amd 8.1t 4.ofth. fuscibility clad  roeort. 
41 Fer Sao  Dung - he tha  road, the foreast traffic as J.Wet 3191 - 1as NaW  sectim  is a   mawip  trafic ea  LISA 4 sad tisA 5                                                                                    P1
of the feasIbIlIty study repot.



THAILAtlD
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparisons of Vehicle Operating Costs (Baht/lm.)
Paved Surface            Laterite Surface              Earth Surface
Vehicle Type and Cost Items
New                        New        Orginal    Infwormation
Information   Original    Information   On               nformation   Original
Motorcycle (MC)
Cost Items
Fuel                              0.1796        0.0701       0.1702        0.0746        0.1972        0.0957
Oil                               0.0025        0.0010       0.0035        0.0014        0.0056        0.0022
Tyres                             0.0101       0.0109        0.0156        0.0137        0.0325        0.0155
Maintenance                       0.0699        0.0357       0.0785        0.0397        0.1120        0.0565
Depreciation                      0.2516       0.1472        0.2870        0.1663        0.2870        0.2131
Total                       0.5137        0.2649        0.5548        0.2957        0.6343        0.3830
Passenger Car (PC)
Cost Items
Fuel                              0.5166       0.1884        0.5442        0.2008        0.7735        0.2574
Oil                               0.0143        0.0090       0.0186        0.0123        0.0300        0.0170
Tyres                             0.0526        0.0325       0.0700        0.0410        0.1236        0.0463
Maintenance      ,                0.1694       0.1448        0.2138        0.1607        0.2816        0.2287
Depreciation                      1.0852       0.7384        1.3927        0.8344        2.2565        1.0688
Total                        1.8381        1.1131       2.2393        1.2492        3.4652        1.6182
Light Bus (LB)
Cost Items
Fuel                              0.6947       0.2051        0.7013        0.2093        1.0776        0.2485
Oil                              '0.0190       0.0111        0.0271        0.0147        0.0390        0.0246
Tyres                             0.1010        0.0428       0.1267        0.0587        0.2215        0.0608
Maintenance                       0.1693       0.1880        0.2502        0.2412        0.3691        0.3001
Depreciation                      0.4766        0.3093       0.6265        0.4119        0.9248        0.9030                   1 P
Salaries                          0.4896          -          O.5341          -           0.7344          -
Overh&ads                         0.0479          -          0.0523          -           0.0719          -
Total                       1.9981        0.7563        2.3182        0.9358        3.4373        1.5370                   O.



THAILAND
SIXTH HIGIIWAY PROJECt (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparisons of Vehicle operating Costs (Baht/Kau.)
Paved Surface           Laterite Surface             Earth Surface
Vehicle Type and.Cost Items
New       Original        New        Original    Inew           Original
Information               information                Information
Medium Bus lME3}
Cost Items
Fuel                              0.8491       0.3981        0.8063       0.4512        1.0728       0.6748
Oil                               0.0278       0.0195        0.0387       0.02S3        0.0556       0.0524
Tyres                             0.2944       0.0885        0.3559       0.1113        0.6591       0.1154
Maintenance                       0.9170       0.3247        1.3207       0.4062        2.0652       0.5054
Depreciation                      0.8934       0.4042        1.1736       0.5985        1.9308       1.3567
Salaries                          0.7276         -           0.8255         -           1.1350         -
Overheads                         0.1538       0.0457        0.1745       0.0575        0.2400       0.1159
Total                        3.8631       1.2807        4.6952       1.6530        7.1585       2.8206
Heavy Bus (Hs)                                                                                                                             4
Cost Items
Fuel                              1.6298       0.4775        1.5433       0.5076        2.0319       0.7592
Oil                               0.0363       0.0188        0.0508       0.0283        0.0822       0.0524
Tyres                             0.4437       0.2182        0.5127       0.2513        0.9983       0.2608
Maintenance                       1.5663       0.4417        2.0630       0.5394        3.2242       0.6710
Depreciation                      1.0404       0.4353        1.3198       0.6893        1.8920       1.5625
Salaries                          1.1720         -           1.3523         -           1.7580         -
Overheads                         0.4400       0.0776        0.5077       0.1043        0.6600       0.2102
Total                        6.3285       1.6691        7.3496       2.1202       10.6466       3.5161
Light Truck (LT)
Cost Items
Fuel                              0.7692       0.2171        0.7131       0.2093        1.0958       0.2485
Oil                               0.0195       0.0108        0.0279       0.0147        0.0390       0.0246
Tyres                             0.1121       0.0467        0.1267       0.0587        0.2215       0.0608
Maintenance                       0.1735       0.1843        0.2446       0.2307        0.3608       0.2870                     * cr
0
Depreciation                      0.5911       0.3123        0.8259       0.4362        1.3002       0.9563                       LA
0
Total                        1.6654       0.7712        1.9382       0.9496.       3.0173       I.S772
L         I  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _               I__     _     I__    _                    A



TiHAILAND
SIXTH  HIGHWAY  PROJNCT  (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT  COMPLETION  REPOR-T
Comparisons of Vehicle Operating Costs (Baht/Km:)
Paved SurCace             Laterite Surface              Earth Surface
Vehicle Type and Cost items                          -     -
New                         New        o                New
Information   Original    Information   OriIinal    Information   Original
Medium Truck (MT)
Cost Items
Fuel                                1.0846        0.4159        1.1663        0.5008        1.S566         0.7491
Oil                                 0.0290        0.0192        0.0387        0.0266        0.0556         0.0494
Tyres                               0.2922        0.1785        0.4306        0.2444        0.8788         0.2537
Maintenance                         0.8102        0.3657        1.2880        0.4692        2.0141         0.5837
Depreciation                       0.9739         0.6599        1.1886        0.9129        1.8470         2.0694
Salaries                            1.2889          -           1.3876          -           1.8125           -
Overheads                           0.1556        0.0661        0.1675        0.0774        0.2188         0.1560
Total                         4.6344        1.7053         5.6673        2.2313        8.3834        3.8613
Heavy Truck (UTt
Cost Items
Fuel                                1.6698        0.S199        1.6628        0.6161        2.2102         0.9364
Oil                                 0.0387        0.0192        0.0496        0.0280        0.0822         0.0494
Tyres                               0.5996        0.2782        0.8574        0.3504         1.6669        0.3954
Maintenance                         1.4192        0.5168        2.1907        0.6440        3.5283         0.8249
Depreciation                        1.4313        0.6308        1.8930        0.9347        3.0628         1.9781
Salaries                            1.2238          -           1.4032          -           1.8421           -
Overheads                           0.5507        0.0772        0.6314        0.0985        0.8289         0.1824
Total                         6.9332        2.0421         8.6882        2.6717       23.2214        4.3666
Note:  The new information and original vehicle operating costs are constant 1984 and 1974 prices.. However, these
costs are economic costs, and on the level tangent road at average operating speed.



- 34 -
Table 6
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
zx-post and Original Estimates of Economic Rates of Return
Proportion         Rate of Return (%)
of Total                   Oignal Estimate
Project               Investment     Ex-post   -Feasibniy   Project
(Construction  Estimate       Study    Appraisal
_____________________________    _Contracts)    _             Report       Report
1.  Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok       17.8          19           32           33
2.  Ban Chai Badan-Dan Xhun         9.6          18           35           32
Thot
3.  Ban Bung-Klaeng                12.8          35           63           56
4.  Ban Bung-Ban Rhai               6.8          20           16           16
5. Bang Bua Thong-Suphanburi       18.9          20           34           30
6.  Ban Sali-Ayuthaya              10.8          19           20           23
7.  Sam Khok-Sena                   9.3          21           29           27
8.  Bo Phloi-U Thong                2.3          18           61           47
9.  Bo Phloi-Dan Chang              3.6          27           28           29
10.  Hat Yai-Samyaek Rhuha           3.4          20           31           26
11.  Hat Yai-Chana                   4.7          14           16           20



- 35 -
Table 7
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Accumulated Disbursements
(US$ million)
Actual disbursements
IBRD FY             Appraisal        Actual total         as a percentate of
& quarter             estimate         disbursements       appraisal estimaates
1977/78
3~rd                    1.0                 -
4th                     5.0                 -
1978/79
lst                    10.0                5.1                       51
2nd                    15.0                7.5                       50
3rd                    21.0               10.8                       51
4th                    27.0               16.2                       60
1979/80
1st                    37.0               25.5                       69
2ad                    48.0               37.6                       78
3rd                    58.0               48.7                       84
4th                    64.0               55.2                       86
1980/81
lst                    71.0               61.4                       86
2nd                    78.0               63.9                       82
3rd                    84.0               70.0                       83
4th                    88.0               75.0                       85
1981/82
1st                    92.0               78.6                       85
2nd                    96.0               81.3                       85
3rd                   i00.0               84.0                       84
4th                   104.0               85.7                       82
1982/83
1st-                  108.0               90.9                       84
2nd                   110.0               93.3                       85
3rd                                       95.5                       87
4th                                       96.9                       88
1983/84
Ist                                       99.3                       90
2nd                                      100.8                       92
3rd                                      102.4                       93
4th                                      102 6                       93
Closingdate           12/31/82           03/31/84



- 36 -
Table 8
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 1519-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Major Loan Conditions
Action required                                      Action taken
Sections 3.02 and 4.04 (and
Supplemental Letter on the
Maintenance Program):
(a)  Borrower to make         Budgetary appropriation for the first year
necessary funds available,         (FY79) of the Maintenance Program was only
through annual budgetary           about 70% of the estimated need, as set out
appropriation in amounts           in the Supplemental Letter, anu for FY80
satisfactory to the Borrower       only 60%, after adjustment for price in-
and the Bank, for the proper       creases.  However for FY81 about 66% and in
carrying out of such               FY82 about 78% of the adjusted estimate was
maintenance; and                   provided and for FY83-85 the allocations
were close to the adjusted estimate. The
Government provided updated estimates for
road maintenance for the years 1984-88 which
are set forth in a Supplemental Letter to
the Agreement for the Second Provincial Road
Project.
(b)  not later than Octo-    There were some delays in the preparations
ber 1, 1979, cause DOH to es-    for introducing the new "revolving fund" (a
tablish and maintain a sepa-       system of management, with internal "hire"
rate fund, on terms and condi-   financing, for the road maintenance equip-
tions satisfactory to the Bor-   ment).  Final approval (by Ministry of
rower and the Bank, to be used    Finance) of the detailed regulations for
for the sole purpose of making   operating the fund was given July 10,
payments for the maintenance,      1981.  Later on, its operation was blocked
repair, renewal and replace-       by Parliamentary action affecting budgetary
ment of the Borrower's road        provisions for road maintenance.  MOF in a
maintenance and workshop           telex of November 24, 1981, stated cabinet
equipment and for the pro-         was being requested to authorize realloca-
curement of spare parts            tion to permit operation,  Cabinet authori-
therefor.                          zation was given March 30, 1982, conditional
on a change in the constitution of the Board
of Management; this was arranged through the
Ministries of Communications and Finance and
the Fund became partially operational in
August 1983.



- 37 -
Table 8
Page 2
Action required                                      Action taken
Section 3.07
The Borrowers shall levy      The Government has not indicated any inten-
tolls on any sections of the       tion of introducing tolls on any of the
roads to be constructed or         project roads.
improved under Part A of the
Project only (a) after an eco-
nomic and financial evaluation
satisfactory to the Bank shall
have been carried out by the
Borrower with respect to the
imposition of tolls on said
road sections and (b) by
agreement between the Borrower
and the Bank.
Section 3.08
The Borrower undertakes to
complete or cause to be com-
pleted:
(a)  not later than Octo-    After some initial delay in preparation and
ber 31, 1978, or such later        bidding, the Government awarded two con-
date as the Bank may agree,        tracts for construction of the link road and
all arrangements necessary to    work was started on first section Thon Buri
ensure that the construction       (Bangkok Noi) - Taling chan March 23, 1979,
of a road to link the Bank Bua   and on the second section Taling Chan - Bang
Thong areas with the main Thon   Bua Thong april 17, 1979.
Buri/Bangkok City area road
network shall be carried out
in accordance with such plains,
specifications and design
standards as shall be accept-
able to the Borrower and the
Bank; and
(b)  not later than Decem-   The construction was substantially delayed
ber 31, 1981, or such later        because of delays in completing the bridge
date as the Bank may agree,        at Taling chan.  Work is now completed and
the construction of the afore-   the entire link was opened to traffic in
mentioned road to link the         early 1985.
Bang Bua Thong area with the
main Thon Buri/Bangkok city
area network.



- 38 -
Table 8
Page 3
Action required                                      Action taken
Section 3.09
The Borrower undertakes to   The paving was completed on schedule.
complete or cause to be com-
pleted, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1978, or such later
date as the Bank may agree,
the paving of the Chana-Thepa-
Patthani road in accordance
with appropriate practices.
Section 4.03
The Borrower shall in res-   The DOH, assisted by consultants financed
pect of its national highway       under Loans 870 and 1519-TH compiled, and
system, continue to implement,    now maintains adequate inventories of
and shall, in respect of its       national and provincial roads.  DOH also
provincial roads system,           collects and process traffic data on all
promptly extend the implemen-    national roads and most of the provincial
tation of its program of col-    roads.  Traffic counting is being gradually
lecting and recording in ac-       extended to the remaining provincial
cordance with appropriate          roads.  The location of traffic counting
statistical methods and pro-       stations needs continuing review and revi-
cedures, including regular and   sion and, as suggested by the Bank, this is
systematic traffic counts,         being undertaken by the Government.  How-
such technical, economic and       ever, information on the road system under
financial information as shall   the DOH for planning of road maintenance, is
be reasonably required for         being improved with the assistance of con-
proper planning of mainte-         sultants under the second Provincial Roads
nance, improvements and exten-   Project, Loan 2311-TH.
sions of its national highway
and provincial roads systems.



URA  .|fVIET NAM
K
T.-N
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                         rEII                   bA 
SIN)OKSOA 
iE tS~t
O                   t            , R M  A
DEMOCRATIC KUMPUCHEA
PRASIlS,;                     DRffe   -f  f     ff.
=,. %  f {  * _     ,     KVo ff ffDEMOCRATIC KUMPUCHEA
x~ ~ ~ ~ ~~. .NI .                     4ufuEhir-fw                     a
, ~~~~~~~~~~THA If'LAND
.0-.                                           TI            NATIO    HIGHWAY AND
)                                              - NO  PROVIICIAL ROAD NORKS
ffP  .zf    }                                                                  _     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXIISTlNGNATI.NALI-ICHffAYS    0
f f    LffffffffE ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      -   - -  NATIONALHIGHffAYSUND[RaONSR.CT.O  OfffROfOSE
i    |~~~~~~~~~~~~ EXW-ISTIN  9NCIAL ROAOS
.  >   i                                                   fROfECT~~~~~~~~~~~~DROAOSI             fft IoR  3TH
.4- ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       4
ff  >tthe   El                                             f-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONSTRUCfTON AND IMPROVEfffET  Sffd Prol- 5EsTH
gIfSLfRdrff; e,                                    .-   ~~~~~~~~STUDfYAND ENGINEERING    f<DPoe  26r
_   fff tf,   T                                          a~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONSTRUCTIONAN  IN -PROVEffEN   SI- Pxl*ro
/E N
rRALLWA          A
p f,   g f afft     t  ffff f<ffSi Th--AlfEt                                     RIVERS
nOJ  s A      i      ;>fsfsb RN                                                AIRfORTS
N    ITIRNATIONALSOUNH ARIG S
PROV APISCIALE ROA BD N1iWORKS
FEBRU TLN       TIONAL1.C T HIGHWAMS
w  , s f  fJo                                  ~~~~~~~~BEIEN CHANGEf3
ffiOt@f /                                                                                     ROD           ORFROPOE9
0 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~SSt
8 azD' l M A L  YS I AA Y                                S lIVID
ftf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  N  IDNOIG FUSP*121



