Report No. 1692a-TH                                                           FILE  COPY
Thailand
Appraisal of a
Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project
January 26, 1978
Transportation Division
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Docrument oi the Wo5ld Barlk
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -        Baht (B)
US$0.0490         =        B 1.00
US$1.00           =        B 20.40
US$49,020         =        B I million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                                British/US
1 meter (m)                   =       3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =       0.6214 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =        0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                =       2.4710 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                   =       0.2759 US gallons (gal)
=       0.2207 British gallons (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =       1.1023 US short tons (sh ton)
=       0.9841 British long tons (lg ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
aadt         -         annual average daily traffic
AC           -          Asphalt Concrete
A.ARD        -          Office for Accelerated Rural Development
DBST         -          Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DOH          -          Department of Highways
ETO          -          Express Transport Organization
HD           -          Harbor Department
MOC          -          Ministry of Communications
NESDB        -          National Economic and Social Development Board
PMWD         -          Public and Municipal Works Department
RID          -          Royal Irrigation Department
SRT          -          State Railway of Thailand
UNDP         -          United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
TABLE Ov CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                        .....................................................
I. INTRODUCTION. ..................................1
II.    THE  TRANSPORTATION   SECTOR   ...................................                                                         3
A.    The  Country   and  its  Economy   .............................                                                   3
B.    The  Transport  Modes   .....................................                                                      3
C.    Planning  and  Coordination   ...............................                                                      6
III. HIIGHWAYS                          ......................................                                                     7
A. The Network ................                                                                                          7
B.    Traffic   .................................................                                                       8
C.    Administration   ........................................                                                          9
D.    Planning   ................................................                                                        9
E.    Financing  and  Taxation   ..................................                                                    11
F.    Engineering   .............................................                                                      11
G.    Construjction   ............................................                                                     12
H. Maintenance ....................                                                                                    12
I. Training ....................                                                                                      13
IV. THE PROJECT ....................                                                                                            14
A. Description                                ..............  14
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component  .........                                               ..         19
C. Financing. ...... 1-                                                                                    ... 21
D.  Implementation .........................................    21
E.  Disbursements ................ ........................                                                            23
V.    ECONOMIC  EVALUATION   .........................................                                                        23
A.  Introductiorn  . ..... .....................................    23
B.  Construction and Improvement of Provincial Roads ... .....                                                         24
C.    Maintenance   Program   .....................................                                                    26
D.    Sensitivity   Analysis   ....................................                                                    27
VI.    RECOIMENDATIONS   .............................................                                                          27
This report was prepared by Messrs. P.R. Morris (Engineer) and S.Y. Park
(Economist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
ol their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Description of Provincial Roads to be Constructed and Improved
2. Economic Review of the Project Roads
TABLES
1. Government Investments in Transport during Third and Fourth Five-Year
Development Plans
2. Department of Highways: Road Construction Program, 1977-81; Regional
Distribution and Sources of Finance
3. Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways, 1963-76
4.  Motor Vehicle Registration, 1966-75
5. Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels, 1965-76
6.  Revenues from Road User Taxes, 1975 and 1976
7. Department ofE Highways: Expenditures and Sources of Finance, 1967-77
8. Design Standards for National Highways and Provincial Roads (Rural)
9. Maintenance of National Highways and Provincial Roads:
Estimated Costs 1979-86
10. Estimated Cost of Project
11. Project Implementation Schedule
12.  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
13. Estimated Economic Cost of Vehicle Operation
14.  Traffic and Economic Data
CHARI
Organization of Department of Highways (World Bank - 17491)
MAP
National Highway and Provincial Road Networks (IBRD No. 12911)



THAILA14D
APPRAISAL OF A SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Between 1966 and 1977 demand for road transport in Thailand is
estimated to have grown at an average compound rate of over 10% p.a., com-
pared with the annual growth rate of GNP during the same period, which
fluctuated between 6% and 9%. Transport capacity has gradually increased
at a rate to match demand. Government investment has been well balanced,
with the main investment going to roads, which have carried most of the
increase in domestic traffic, but also to the State Railway of Thailand
(SRT). The economy is expected to continue to expand over the next few
years at about 6% to 7% p.a., resulting in an increasing demand for highway
transport.
ii.       Between 1963 and 1976, the national highway system has grown from
about 9,000 km to 12,700 km, and the percentage paved has grown from 46% to
94%. This system is now fairly well defined and constructed; for the next
few years its expansion will be limited to a few new links, and other work
mainly to widen a few routes carrying heavy traffic volumes close to Bangkok,
and to strengthen some other sections. The main need presently is to improve
the provincial road system which has expanded from about 8,000 km in 1963 to
22,250 in 1976, mainly through reclassifying existing local roads. Hlowever
only about 4,300 km are paved and over 13,000 km are still largely unim-
proved. The Government is accordingly devoting most of the development
effort to the provincial road system, both in its programs financed by
overseas agencies and its budget. VWhile the Fifth Highway Project included
some provincial roads, the Sixth Project will concentrate on the construction
and improvement of provincial roads. The project also includes a study of
local roads to assess their need for improvement and maintenance; such roads
generally carry low traffic volume, but give access to villages. In the
meantime, improvement of local roads is being carried out in particular areas
under a number of agriculture and rural development projects and also, since
1974, throughout the country through grants to all tambons (villages).
iii.      The organization of the Government's Department of Highways (DOH)
in the Ministry of Communications (MOC) is satisfactory.  However, there has
been a long standing deficiency in the maintenance of roads, particularly a
failure to carry otit periodic maintenance. A highway maintenance study
carried out under the Fifth Project made recommendations for road maintenance
including an eight-year program to overcome the backlog of work on the national
highways and provincial road systems. The Sixth Project incorporates the eight-
year program of road maintenance, including the procurement of maintenance
equipment and consulting services.
iv.       The Government's transport development expenditure in the Fourth
Five-Year Plan (1977-81) of B 31 billion represents an increase of about 50%
over the previous five-year plan. The plan is being reviewed, but based on
the present amounts, the proportion of transportation expenditure in the total
will decrease from 20% to 12%. Transport planning and coordination are



- ii -
primarily the responsibility of the Transport Planning Unit (TPU) in the MOC.
The TPU is receiving technical assistance from foreign consultants under the
Fifth Highway Proj ect and is developing into a reasonably competent planning
agency. The Sixth Project will continue the technical assistance on a reduced
scale.
v.         The Project will include the construction and improvement of about
670 km of provincial roads; an eight-year program of road maintenance of the
national highways and provincial roads, including the procurement of maintenance
equipment; review and screening of the national and provincial roads, and
feasibility studies of about 1,500 km of mainly provincial roads, to be
followed by detailed engineering if found justified; a study of rural (local)
roads to prepare an investment program in selected provinces (changwats); a
study of road user charges; detailed engineering and related economic analysis,
for improvements to the waterway of the Chao Phya river, to prepare a future
project; a study of' coastal ports and preparation of a development program;
and further technic:al assistance and training for the DOH and the MOC. The
project was prepared through studies and engineering carried out under the
Fifth Highway Project.
vi.        The construction and improvement works, and the procurement of
equipment, will be through contracts awarded on the basis of international
compet:itive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
The domestic contracting industry has evolved considerably during the last
ten years, and is expected to win over half the contracts. The consulting
services will be carried out by experienced foreign firms, in association
with domestic consultants; most of the staff will be Thai nationals. The
estimaLted total cost of the project is about US$207 million and the foreign
cost about US$101 million, which will be financed by the Loan, together with
about US$9 million of local costs of consultants' services.
vii.       The construction and improvement of provincial roads will in some
cases give access to areas where road transport is presently not practicable,
and in. others will improve access and reduce the cost of transport. The
feasibility studies and engineering will help to prepare future transportation
projects. The program of road maintenance, including procurement of road
maintenance equipment, will help to improve the operations of the DOH in
bringing the national highways and provincial roads up to an adequate standard
of maintenance.
viii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$110 million equivalent
representing about 53% of the total project cost, to the Kingdom of Thailand
for a period of 20 years, including a five year period of grace.



THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Kingdom of Thailand has asked the Bank to
help finance a Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project consisting of: (a)
construction and improvement of 11 sections of provincial roads totalling
about 671 km, including supervision by consultants; (b) an eight-year program
of road maintenance, including procurement of road maintenance and workshop
equipment, with an initial supply of spare parts; (c) studies by consultants;
(d) technical assistance by consultants:  (i) to the Department of Highways
(DOH) for detailed planning and implementing an agreed Highway Maintenance
Program and Training of Staff, and (ii) to the Ministry of Construction (MOC)
for training the staff of the Transport Planning Unit (TPU); and (e) fellow-
ships for training staff of the DOH and TPU. The studies by consultants in
(c) above are: (i) to review the national highway and provincial road
systems to establish priorities for improvement, feasibility studies by
consultants of about 1,500 km of roads (predominantly provincial roads),
followed by detailed engineering of about 1,200 km of those roads found to
be justified; (ii) to prepare an investment program for rural roads in
selected provinces (changwats); (iii) of road user charges; (iv) of inland
waterways to prepare a development plan, and detailed engineering for a
future project; and (v) of coastal ports, including preparation of a deve-
lopment program.
1.02      The Bank Group has financed 12 previous transportation projects
in Thailand. Four loans have been for railways: 35-TH, signed in October
1950, for US$3 million (First); 128-TH, August 1955, US$12 million (Second);
280-TH, April 1961, US$22 million (Third); and 898-TH, June 1973, US$15 mil-
lion (Fourth). An appraisal report is being prepared for a Fifth Railway
Project based on the findings of a mission in November/December 1977. There
have been three loans for ports: 37-TH, October 1950, US$4.4 million (First);
151-TH, October 1956, US$3.4 million (Second); and 702-TH, August 1970,
US$12.5 million (Third). The five previous highway loans were: 341-TH, June
1963, US$35 million, (First); 455-TH, June 1966, US$36 million (Second);
535-TH, May 1968, US$29 million (Third); 626-TH, June 1969, US$23 million
(Fourth); and 870-TH, December 1972, US$28.6 million (Fifth). All four
railway projects were completed satisfactorily; about US$7.5 million of the
loan amount for the Third Project was cancelled in respect of locomotives which
the Borrower preferred to purchase through procedures not in accordance wiLth
the Bank Group Guidelines. The first two port projects were completed on
schedule, and the third project was completed in May 1976, over two years
behind schedule largely because of delays in awarding civil works contracts.
1.03      The first four highway projects were satisfactorily completed and
with substantial savings in cost compared with the estimates (including
contingency allowances). In the case of the First Highway Project about
US$13.1 million of the loan amount was cancelled at the Government's request
when some road sections were removed from the project. On the Second Highway
Project US$4.9 million was cancelled as most of the contingency allowances



- 2 -
were not needed; however, the closing date was extended 22 months as con-
struction of some road sections and detailed engineering of one road took
longer than scheduled.  On the Third Highway Project US$6.1 million was
cancelled as the bid prices were substantially lower than estimated, probably
because of intense competition among contractors at the time, coinciding with
a period of domestic price stability; the closing date was extended by six
months mainly beacause construction of one section of road was delayed by
floods. On the Fourth Highway Project, US$6.2 million was cancelled, again
because of low bid prices and general price stability prior to the bidding
and while most of the construction was carried out; however, the closing
date was extendied by 21 months to complete work on one road where construction
conditions across swampy areas were exceptionally difficult, but the problems
were successfulLy overcome.  The quality of construction on all four projects
was good.
1.04      On the Fifth Highway Project, Loan 870-TH, the bid prices, and
contracts awarded in late 1971 through mid-1973, were in line with the cost
estimates. The Bank had suggested including comprehensive price variation
clauses in the contracts, but the Government chose to include adjustment
claiuses only for direct variations in petroleum product prices, in view of
the previous history of price stability in Thailand.  However, the sharp rise
in petroleum product prices in 1973-1975 was accompanied by a general inflation,
and this led to disputes with the contractors and a virtual stoppage of work
for a number of months. The Government eventually offered increased payments
to partially offEset higher costs of the alternative of terminating the
coontracts. The Government's payment offer was accepted on three contracts,
while on four contracts the contractors elected to terminate. The remaining
two contracts had already been completed at that time. Rebidding produced
re:Latively litt:Le interest from foreign firms, and new contracts for the
uncompleted workcs were awarded to domestic firms, at approximately double the
original prices. As a result, there will be a cost overrun of about 30% on
the entire project. However, the works are now proceeding satisfactorily,
all:hough there will be a delay of about one year in completing the project.
1.05      The present project has been prepared through feasibility studies
and detailed engineering of provincial roads, and a study of Highway Mainten.nce,
carried out under the Fifth Highway Project. It will form part of the Govern-
ment's fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1977-81. Provincial roads were
chosen since over 90% of the 12,700 km National Highway System has been improved
and paved, but only about 40% of the 22,250 km Provincial Road System has been
improved, and only about half of the improved length has been paved.  Improve-
ment of the remainder of the provincial roads will continue to be the principal
task in the reaad sector for a number of years. In view of the recent difficul-
ties with contracts on the Fifth Highway Project (para 1.04), it was agreed to
obtain bids for about half the project roads before negotiating the loan.
Bids were received on seven roads in August/early September 1977 and they
indicate that the interest of contractors, including foreign firms, has
resumed and effective competition thus improved.
1.06      This report is based on information provided by the Government and
on the studies and engineering carried out by consultants, and on the findings



of an appraisal mission in February/March 1977 composed of Messrs. P. R. Morris
(engineer) and S. Y. Park (economist). Additional data was obtained
by Mr. Park on a subsequent visit to Thailand in June/July 1977 and by
Mr. Weckerle (economist) in October 1977, concerning the proposed studies.
The prequalification and bidding procedure was started immediately following
the appraisal mission so that obtaining bids prior to negotiation added only
abotLt one month to the period. However, due to changes in the Government,
negotiations were not held until December 1977 and final agreement was not
expected until end January 1978.
II. THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
A. The Country and Its Economy
2.01      Thailand has an area of 514,000 sq km and a population of about
41.9 million in 1975. Climate and topography do not seriously impede trans-
port movements, but the length between borders results in long travel dis-
tances. The climate is monsoon tropical, with two rainy seasons. Mountains
and rivers dominate the topography. A spur of the Himalaya Mountains occupies
most of the north and extends along the western border with Burma through the
Malay Peninsula (including the Kra Isthmus). Two major rivers, the Mekong
and Chao Phya, originate in these mountains. The country is divided into the
Central, Northern, Northeastern and Southern Regions.
2.02      Thailand is predominantly rural.  About 85% of the population lives
outside urban centers (more than 10,000 inhabitants) and earns its liveli]hood
from agriculture. Bangkok, the political, commercial, cultural and industrial
center, is the only major city. Its population is increasing over 5% anniually
(compared with the country average of under 3%) and now is estimated to be over
4 million. To reduce income disparities between Bangkok and the countryside
and among regions, the Government has undertaken regional development programs.
2.03      The economy grew rapidly in the 1960's (about 9% annually) and
generated a significant growth of demand for transport. However, the rate of
economic growth fell to 6% at the beginning of the present decade with falling
world market prices for its agricultural exports and decreasing U.S. mililtary
expenditures in Thailand. The growth rate fell further to 4.6% in 1974 with
the oil crisis, but bounced back to an estimated rate of 6.5% in 1976. The
Government's main objective for its Fourth Economic and Social Development:
Plan (1977-81) is to attain and sustain a 7% annual growth rate. Demand for
transport dipped sharply around 1974 reflecting the scarce supply of motor
fuel and also the general slow-down of economic growth. But following the
economic recovery, transport demand increased again. For example, the
average traffic growth on the nation's highway system is now well over 10%
p.a., a level that prevailed in the late 1960's.
B. The Transport Miodes
(a) General
2.04      The pattern of movement for goods and passengers reflects Bangkok's
dominant position in the economy. Primary and agricultural products are



- 4 -
carried to Bangkok for export, processing and local consumption; imported and
locally manufactured industrial products are moved in the opposite direction.
To accommodate these flows, a radial transportation system has evolved, with
Bangkok at the center. The system consisting of roads, railways, inland
waterways, ports and domestic aviation is basically complete and is generally
adequate to serve present transport needs.
2.05      Few statistics exist of passenger and freight movements, except
on the railway. Road transport, however, is the dominant mode, with rail and
water transport following. Domestic aviation does not carry a large share of
traffic. As roads have been improved, they have attracted an increasing
proportion of total traffic. The individual modes are discussed below.
2.06      Congestion in Bangkok is serious because the city has grown rapidly
without concomitant improvements in its transport and other facilities. To
help reduce the traffic congestion in the city streets, a few years ago, the
Government banned the entry of heavy trucks into the city during the day,
but, while proven to be helpful, the measure is not an adequate means of
dealing with the rapidly worsening traffic congestion in the city. A Bangkok
Urban Planning Study prepared recently by a German consulting firm (with the
financing of the Federal Republic) has been under review by the Government;
some of the recomnmended measures to ameliorate the congestion problems not
involving heavy capital expenditures are being implemented.  Following a
rec(ent Government request, the Bank is now assisting in preparing a project
for further improvement of traffic conditions in Bangkok.
(b) Highways
2.07      Chapter III gives details about highways and roads.
(c) Railways
2.03      The system of the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) consists of
4,477 km, all melter gauge and mostly single track. The main lines radiate
from Bangkok to ithe North, Northeast, East, and South. In the East, they
connect with lines of Cambodia, and in the South with those of the Federation
of Malaysia. Carload freight and passenger traffic grew at about 4% and 6%
p.a,, respectiveLy, between 1972 and 1976. The system carried 2.6 billion
ton--km and 5.8 b:illion pass-km, respectively, in 1976.
2.09      Past railway operations were profitable up to 1973.  But the
rai'Lway incurred a heavy net loss in 1975 (B 292 million), and this was
reduced to B 209 million in 1976 due to tariff increases in late 1975. With
the aid of additional freight expected in 1977, the railway hopes to almost
eliminate the loss. In addition to tariff increases, reforms and investments
to improve efficiercf'.y arn needed to restore reasonably sound financial and
operating  ,nditions of the railway.  Principal reforms needed include:  (i)
discontinuation of uneconomic local services; (ii) improved investment
-lanning; (iii) a more flexi'le and cost-related tariff policy; and (iv)
improved marketing of services. l'he 3ank, through its loans, is supporting
the Government in carrying out these reforms and investment for improved



- 5 -
efficiency, and will continue this effort through a fifth railway project
which is under preparation.
(d) Inland Waterways
2.10      The main inland waterway network consists of the Chao Phya River
system in the Central Plain, with interconnecting canals. About 1,600 km
are navigable in the wet season and 1,100 km in the dry season. More than
half the traffic is sand and gravel extracted from the rivers for use in
construction in Bangkok. Another third consists of agricultural commodities,
mainly rice, also being transported to Bangkok. Traffic is about 93% south-
bound and 7% northbound. Lack of year-round navigability, the high cost of
dredging, and conflicting needs of water for increased irrigation or power
generation are the main limitations on inland water transport. A firm of
French consultants recently executed a feasibility study on the inland water-
ways to identify the areas where physical improvement is necessary. Based on
the findings of the report, engineering and related economic studies have been
included in the project to prepare an inland waterways project (para 4.12).
(e) Ports
2.11      Klong Toi Port at Bangkok, operated by the autonomous Port Authority
of Thailand, is the only public commercial port where ocean-going vessels can
berth.  It is a river port situated about 30 km from the mouth of the Chao
Phya River, and its approach needs constant dredging. The port handles 80%
of Thailand's international sea traffic and about 40% of its coastal traffic.
The total export/import traffic in 1975 was 2.4 million m tons. Expansion
of its facilities, particularly for bulk traffic, is constrained because of
the sharp bends and shallowness of the approach channel. The Bank's Third
Port Project includes expansion works to meet traffic demands up to 1980.
As an interim solution to the congestion of the Bangkok port, the Government
intends to use part of the naval port of Sattahip for bulk export traffic.
As a long-term measure, construction of a new deep-sea port at Laem Krabang
to the north of Sattahip has been decided. In addition, development of
a deep-sea port on the Kra Isthmus is being studied to provide an outlet
for export traffic from Southern Thailand. Candidates for such development
projects are Phuket on the western coast of the Isthmus and Songkhla on the
eastern coast. The Asian Development Bank is considering financing an expansion
project for Songkhla at an estimated cost of US$25 million.
2.12      Apart from deep-sea ports, the Government plans to develop secondary
coastal ports in coordination with improvements to the country's road system.
Consultants' services have been included in this project to prepare a correspon-
ding development plan.
(f)  Civil Aviation
2.13      Bangkok's Don Muang Airport is a joint civilian and military
facility administered by the Royal Thai Air Force. It is served by over 30
foreign airlines and is the focal point of domestic operatins of Thai Airways
Company Limited. Due to the joint use by military and civilian traffic,



ground space at Don Muang is congested, and to resolve this problem the
Government has recently decided to move most of the military operation to
airfields in the outlying regions and devote the existing space for handling
civilian traffic. With this decision, the earlier plan for a new airport for
Bangkok has been shelved for the time being.
2.14      The Government-owned Thai Airways operates scheduled services from
Bangkok to 20 domestic airports, and Penang in Malaysia. Its fleet consists
of seven Avro 748's and four Douglas DC-3's. Traffic is generally heavy in
its trunk flight lines but in some locations has dropped so low when roads
have become available that scheduled services are no longer justified. Thai
International Ltd. provides international services.
C. Planning and Coordination
2.15      The Ministry of Communications (MOC) is responsible for transport
policy. Through its own departments, or through supervising Government
transport enterprises, it is concerned with all transport planning and
operations. During the last decade and a half, the Government has made
transport investments in response to needs of the growing economy. These
investments have in turn helped to stimulate economic development. A vigorous,
efficient, and competitive road transport industry has evolved, mainly
owned by many private operators. The railway has tried to meet the challenge
of road competition, but reforms are needed to improve its efficiency
(para 2.09). Transport planning was simple as the primary system was being
developed, and while needs were obvious, no significant excesses or misallo-
cations of transport investments occurred. But now that most of the obvious
needs have been met, planning of future development will have to be more
careful, particularly in evaluating projects and setting priorities.
2.16      At the recommendation of the Bank, a Transport Planning Unit (TPU)
was set up in 1974 in the MOC to act as the focal point of transport planning,
e.g. drafting of transport policy papers and formulating transport sector
investment programs. The Unit is now developing a management information
system to provide an improved data basis for decision-making on transport
matters at various levels of Government and its transport agencies. The
Fifth Highway Project provided 70 man-months of consultants' technical
assistance for the setting up of TPU and training of its staff. Their
services, completed in September 1977, have been instrumental in recruiting
qualified staff and organizing the TPU. Continuation of consultants' assis-
tance program on a reduced scale is included in this project, while increasing
responsibilities are assumed by the Thai staff.
2.17      The Government's Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81) includes an
allocation of about B 31 billion (US$1.5 billion) for transport or about
12% of the total development expenditures (Table 1). Road investments are
about B 22.3 billion (US$1.1 billion) or about 73% of the transport alloca-
tion.   This is albout 35% more than in the preceding Plan (Table 2)./1  The
Plan and the individual projects are reviewed by the Department of Highways
(DOH) and revised periodically to reflect changes in availability of funds,
economic priorities, time schedules for preparation and execution, and costs.
/1 The Fourth Five-Year Plan was being re-drafted at the time of the
appraisal mission and is still under review by the Government.



- 7 -
In the case of the Third Plan Road Investment Program, such reviews by tlhe
Department resulted in a number of downward revisions of the Plan and the
actual expenditure was reduced to 66% and the lengths of road improvements to
482 of the original Plan targets.
III. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The public road network consists of about 12,700 km of nationa:L
roads, 22,250 km of provincial roads (Table 3), and about 60,000 km of local
roads. The national road system connects the main towns and regional centers
throughout the country. The provincial road system, when complete, will
connect the provincial centers, and most of the other towns, with the national
road system. Local roads connect villages with the provincial and national
road system. Since 1963, the national road system has expanded from 9,000 to
12,700 km, and the proportion paved has increased from 46% to 94%. At the
same time the provincial road system has increased from about 8,000 km to
22,250 km, and the proportion paved has increased from about 3% (203 km) to
192% (4,276 km). At the same time the length of improved (gravel) provincial
roads has increased from about 2,200 km to nearly 9,000 km. Nevertheless,
because of the large expansion of the provincial road system, in 1976 there
were over 13,000 km of unimproved provincial roads. Little information is
available about the larger number of local roads, but generally they are
"unimproved".
3.02      The national road system has now been largely defined, and improved
and paved. For some years, it is expected that only a small number of
additional links will be required. Also a few sections will need to be
further upgraded, including widening, as they become inadequate for the
increasing traffic volumes, particularly some of the main routes near Bangkok;
other sections will need strengthening. However, improvement of the provincial
road system presents a major task over the next 10 years or so. This was
recognized by the Government in the Third Development Plan 1972-76, just
completed, and the provincial road system has been given further emphasis in
the Fourth Development Plan 1977-81 (para 3.14). The more than 13,000 km of
unimproved provincial roads have not been constructed to engineered standards
and are generally sunken and poorly drained, often lacking in permanent
drainage structures and with little gravel surfacing; many sections are
impassable during rainy weather. While statistics covering the public road
system as a whole are lacking it is evident that the great bulk of vehicle-km
of travel is on the national and provincial road systems. The Government has
in the last few years, made a start on improving the local roads. However,
for some years the improvement of most local roads will depend on better
maintenance. The emphasis will therefore be on improving the maintenance
organization of the local authorities and then gradually extending improvement
works, largely through local community effort with support from the central
Government.



- 8 -
B.  Traffic
3.03      The motor vehicle fleet (including motorcycles) grew at an average
annual rate of about 12% between 1966 and 1976. About 1,150,000 vehicles
were registered in the country at the end of 1976 (Table 4). The portion
registered outside the Bangkok metropolitan area increased during the period
from a'bout 60% to 70%, indicating a continuing spread of motor transport into
the countryside. Duties and taxes are higher for imported vehicles to
protect development of the local automobile assembly industry, but no other
restrictions limit the supply of motor vehicles.
3.04      Traffic distribution on the network reflects Bangkok's dominant
position in the economy.  Traffic is highest on the approach roads to Bangkok,
where it ranges from 15,000-30,000 annual average daily traffic (aadt), and
decreases sharply as the distance increases from the capital. Traffic on
some provincial roads is over 1,000 aadt. Traffic on local roads is generally
less than 100 aadt. Average annual traffic growth has been generally higher
than both the increases in motor fuel consumption (Table 5) and in the motor
vehicle fleet (Table 4), which appears to indicate a more intensive utiliza-
tion cf existing vehicles and increase in the use of energy efficient vehicles
for personal movement. Growth rates on individual roads have varied widely,
but have been higher in the Northern, Northeastern and Southern Regions,
particularly on improved roads.
3.05      Public bus transport is closely regulated.  The Government-owned
Transport Company Ltd. has the franchise for all main routes but operates on
only aL few highly-trafficked routes and subcontracts operations on most others.
Bus fares vary according to road conditions and distances and compare reason-
ably with operating costs.
3.06      The Government has the authority to limit the number and size of
trucking firms and to control freight rates. But it has not exercised its
authority, and the trucking industry has developed without restrictions. The
Government-owned Express Transport Organization (ETO), the largest trucking
firm, owns 1,260 trucks and hires 5,000-6,000 others. Under Government-
sponsored service agreements, ETO has sole rights for: access to the Port of
Bangkok, transit traffic to Laos and Cambodia, and traffic of Government-owned
manufacturing companies. Its monopoly right on the cargo movement to and from
major railway stations was rescinded in 1975. ETO's services are now satis-
factory, but its rates are higher than those of private truckers.  Private
firms take care of most trucking needs; most firms are small (1 or 2 trucks)
but many, especially in and around Bangkok, are medium-size (10 or more
trucks). The latter often are freight agents, obtaining cargo for themselves
and for inde'pendent truckers. Freight rates are usually negotiated and not
advertised, but seem to be competitive and cost-related.
3.07      The Government's regulations on vehicle weights and dimensions
were 'reviewed as part of the Highway Maintenance Study carried out by the
consultants Kampsax, of Denmark, under the Fifth Highway Project. As a
result, the regulations were amended in November 1976. The principal changes
were to increase t'he maximum axle load from 8.0 to 9.1 m tons, and the gross



- 9 -
weights of a 3-axle vehicle from 18.0 to 21.0 m tons, of a semi-trailer from
32.4 to 37.4 m tons, and for a truck and trailer combination from 32.4 to
43.4 m tons. These are substantially in line with the consultants' recommen-
dations.
C. Administration
3.08      The MOC, through its DOH is responsible for administering, planning,
constructing, and maintaining national highways and provincial roads. The 70
provinces (changwats) and their districts (amphoes) and municipalities, under
the Ministry of the Interior, are responsible for local roads, with assistance
from a number of central Government agencies (para 3.09). In addition, other
central government departments and agencies build and maintain roads, including
the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) in the Ministry of Agriculture which
builds and maintains roads serving irrigation projects; the Ministry of
Defense, through its Mobile Development Unit, and the Army which also builcl
roads for national defense and internal security.
3.09      The DOl organization (Chart) is adequate to carry out all its
duties. The organization was set up essentially in its present form, with
assistance by USAID, between 1964 and 1967, and was slightly modified at the
end of 1976, as a result of the Highway Maintenance Study, to give somewhat
more emphasis to maintenance of national highways and provincial roads. The
numbers of professional and technical staff are adequate, but with the
considerable expansion which has taken place, in line with the growing
network of roads under the Department, and due to a considerable turnover of
staff, many of the middle level staff are lacking in experience and initia-
tive. The DOH is endeavoring to remedy this by a number of courses and
training on the job (para 3.23). The provinces have rudimentary works
organizations, but Government's efforts to build up their capabilities is
hampered by their large number (70) and the small scale of their work.
Assistance to the provinces is given mainly by the Office for Accelerated
Rural Development (ARD) and the Public and Municipal Works Department (PMWD),
both in the Ministry of the Interior.
3.10      The MOC is responsible for classification of highways and road
systems and for the initiation of legislation concerning the construction,
maintenance and protection of roads, and the preparation of programs and
budgets for the development and maintenance of national highways and provin-
cial roads. In practice, these functions are mainly delegated to the DOH.
The MOC is also responsible for initiating and administering legislation
concerning the use of roads, including the licensing of commercial vehicles.
D. Planning
3.11      The Planning Division of the DOH is responsible for the planning
of construction and improvement programs for the national highways and
provincial roads, and the drafting of annual budgets. It initiates the
preparation and updating of road inventories and counting and recording of



- 10 -
traffic. Althoughi traffic counting on the provincial roads is presently
incomplete, the DOH is planning to expand the work on these roads on a
systematic and regular basis. The Planning Division obtains proposals for
improvement from the DOH's field divisions, provincial authorities, and other
ministries and departments concerned with roads, and after carrying out field
reconnaissance, chiefly concerned with engineering, but also with simple
economic evaluation, it ranks the proposals in an approximate order of pri-
oritv, as a basis for drafting proposed development programs. It also may
prepare proposals for reclassification, where justified, of roads from
"local" to provincial, or between the provincial and national systems. For
major construction projects, especially when financed by foreign agencies,
feasi.bil-ty studies are carried out on a road-by-road basis, usually by
consultants since it would not be practicable to build up the capacity of the
DOH to handle all the studies. The ARD and PMWD handle the planning and
engineering of most of those local road improvements which involve substan-
tial work. Such projects are chosen on only very general economic, adminis-
trative, security and political considerations and quantitative evaluations
are not usually carried out.
3.12      The draft road development programs of the DOH and also those of the
ARD and PMWD are reviewed by a Road Subcommittee, at the working level, and
afterwards by a coordinating committee at the ministerial level. The sub-
committee and commaittee are composed of representatives of the various
ministries, departments and other organizations of Government which are
chief'ly concerned with roads, and perform a coordinating function among the
various programs, as well as approving the priorities of the projects selected
and t:he scale of the programs as a whole. The draft programs are subject to
final, approval by the NESDB, and by the Cabinet. This planning and approval
process attempts to evolve development programs based as far as possible on
economic criteria.  However, many roads are included for other reasons
including defense and internal security, local political pressures, etc.
Furthermore, the programs are subject to frequent change, usually every year.
Many of the projects have in the past not been fully investigated and cost
estimates and schedules have not always been realistic at the time they have
been included in these programs.
3.13      At present, highway sector lending in Thailand is not appropriate
for this project. Firstly, it will not be practicable to reach agreement
on a five-year development program for roads, in view of the nature and
number of the projjects included in it (about 400 national and provincial
road projects), and the frequent changes made by the Government (paras. 3.12
and 3.14). Secondly, the maintenance of roads is not yet satisfactory, and
programs of periodic maintenance, even for the national and provincial
roads, have yet to be started and carried out to overcome the backlog of
such essential works (paras 3.20-3.22). Also, there is no lack of individual
road projects already fully prepared for financing. In fact the field
appraisal covered three additional roads, which could have been included in
this project, if finance had been available. However, as progress is made
in achieving better maintenance and more firmly based planning (paras 4.09,
4.10 and 4.14), it is expected that Thailand will advance towards future
Bank sector lending.



- 11 -
3.14      The Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1977-81 (Table 1), which the Gov-
ernment is currently reviewing, allocates about B 22.3 billion (US$1,092.6 mil-
lion) to roads, of which B 8.9 billion (US$434.7 million) is allocated to
national highways, B 11.3 billion (US$553.4 million) to provincial roads, and
B 2.1 billion (US$104.5 million) to local roads. In financial terms the
Fourth Plan represents an increase for roads, compared with the original
Third Plan, of about a third. However, the increase is only 11% for national
highways, but is 66% for provincial roads and 33% for local roads. Actual
expenditures on national and provincial roads under the Third Plan were only
about 66% of the original provisions; this cutback, together with a sharp
rise in costs, reduced physical achievement to barely half of the original
target. At constant prices, the allocations for provincial roads under the
Fourth Five-Yeai Plan would be about 8% lower than for the original Third
Plan, for the local roads about 25% lower, and for the national highways a
fall of roughly 40%.  Also, the percentage of investment in transport allocated
to roads has fallen from nearly 80% to about 73%. The emphasis on the major
task of improving the provincial road system is justified for the Fourth
Five-Year Development Plan, and will probably also be required in future
plans.
E. Financing and Taxation
3.15      Road expenditures are financed from general budgetary revenues
and foreign loans and grants. Road user taxes are not earmarked, except for
proceeds from motor vehicle registration fees, which are distributed among
the Police Department, the Municipalities, Sanitary districts, and provinces.
In 1975, the Government collected about B 6.7 billion (US$335 million) in
road user taxes (Table 6). This is nearly a 150% rise over the 1970 level of
B 2.6 billion, largely resulting from the increases in prices of oil and
motor vehicles. This represented about double the DOH's expenditures,
including administration, for national highways and provincial roads (Table 7).
3.16      The Government has no specific policy for its taxation of road
users, but levies taxes to raise general public revenue, to protect the
domestic automobile assembly industry, and to limit automobile ownership
which is considered to be a luxury. A more rational policy would be desirable,
and a study will be made under this project to determine one (para 5.05). It
will pay particular attention to the incidence of road use charges in different
geographical regions and among types of vehicles (Annex 2, para. 18).
F. Engineering
3.17      Engineering of the national highways and provincial roads is the
responsibility of the Location and Design Division of the DOH. It undertakes
such work itself, to the limit of its capacity, but for major works, particu-
larly those financed by overseas agencies, the department usually employs
consultants. While the consulting firms carrying the prime responsibility
for feasibility studies and detail engineering are mainly foreign, they are



- 12 -
employing a substantial proportion of Thai staff.  Furthermore they are
almost; invariably working in association with local firms of consultants.
Thai nationals now constitute the bulk of all the consultants' staff employed
on road works and their proportion is continuing to increase. The DOH
estab]ishes design standards for national and provincial roads in accordance
with the road class, terrain and traffic volumes (Table 8). It also estab-
lishes standards for local roads of various categories. These standards are
used by the ARD and PMWD which are responsible for designs of most of the
projects for local roads; they undertake such design work themselves, to the
limits of their capacity and employ consultants, chiefly Thai, for the
balance of their work.
G. Construction
3.18      The DOH has a National Highways Construction Division which is
responsible for all construction of national highways, and a Provincial
Roads Construction Division for provincial road projects as well as for such
local road projects as are handled by the DOH. About 90% of the construction
is carried out by contract and the rest by force account. The construction
by force account is largely for training purposes, undertaken at two training
centers, with bilateral aid (para 3.23). Road construction by ARD
and PMWD is now also mainly by contract. The smaller projects, undertaken by
the provinces, districts and groups of villages, are largely constructed by
force account with a higher proportion of hand labor.
3.19      The Government Vas used road improvement programs, including the
Bank-financed projects, as a means of developing the domestic contracting
industry, through a continuous stream of contracts awarded through competitive
bidding. Domestic contractors carry out small contracts and subcontracts, as
well as most of the medium-size contracts, and a substantial number of large
ones. A large number of foreign firms from many countries have participated
in the larger contracts, particularly those financed from foreign sources,
but an increasing proportion has been won by Thai firms. Prices remained very
stable until 1973, when difficulties arose because of a sudden jump in costs.
This led to some difficulties with ongoing contracts, including those under
the Fifth Highway Project (para 1.04) and most of the foreign firms left the
country. However, firms from a number of countries are again becoming inter-
ested in construction work in Thailand and this was tested by prequalification,
and bidding on over 50% of the project, before negotiations (para 4.16).
H.  Maintenance
3.20      Maintenance of national highways and provincial roads (Table 3)
is periormed by the DOH through its Maintenance Division, 12 Field Divisions,
and 63 Field Districts. Local roads are maintained by the provinces and
municipalities. Roads serving irrigation projects are maintained by the
RID, anid some national defense roads are maintained by the Army.



- 13 -
3.21      Although maintenance by the DOH of the national highways and
provincial roads has improved substantially since 1966, it is still not
satisfactory. During that period routine maintenance, including surface
patching, clearing of drains, and grass cutting has reached a reasonable
standard. However, periodic maintenance, such as resurfacing bituminous
paved roads, reshaping and resurfacing gravel roads, and regraveling shoul-
ders, has never been undertaken on a systematic and adequate scale, and
there is now a large backlog of such work. With a view to remedying the
situation, a Highway Maintenance Study has been carried out under the Fifth
Highway Project by the Danish consultants Kampsax. Their report, submitted
in late 1976, recommends an eight-year program of maintenance for the national
highways and provincial roads to overcome the backlog of periodic maintenance
during an eight-year period 1979-86 and thereafter a continuous system to
keep them at a satisfactory standard of maintenance. The consultants proposals
include the purchase of maintenance equipment, together with spare parts, to
replace worn-out equipment of the DOH and to restore the equipment fleet to
an efficient state. The twelve divisional workshops were set up and equipped
partly with assistance through previous Bank financed projects, and are
generally satisfactory. However, the consultants have recommended purchasing
a small amount of additional equipment which is needed. Kampsax have also
proposed the introduction of a system for funding the regular replacement of
worn-out equipment and provision of spare parts. Maintenance expenditures,
excluding administration and highway police, increased gradually from B 234 mil-
lion (US$11.5 million) in 1967 to B 573 million (US$28.1 million) in 1976, and
the budget allocation for 1977 was B 627 million (US$30.7 million) (Table 7).
Kampsax have prepared estimates for their proposed eight-year program which,
at projected 1979 prices, are indicated in Table 9. This entails an increase,
in real terms, of about 60% in the annual recurrent expenditure.
3.22      Maintenance of local roads, by provinces and municipalities,
is generally poor and inadequate even for the low traffic volumes which
they generally carry. The Government has included a sum of B 2.1 billion
(US$104.5 million) in the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1977-81 for
improvement of local roads. Priority should be given to the rehabilitation
and improved maintenance of local roads, and strengthening the work capa-
bilities of the local authorities, rather than constructing new roads
(paras 3.02 and 3.09).
I. Training
3.23      A total of 41 professional staff of the DOH will have completed
overseas training courses in specialized subjects by the end of 1978,
financed by the First, Third, and Fifth Highway Projects. With the improve-
ment and expansion of Thai universities, they now provide courses in all but a
limited range of such specialized subjects. The DOH wishes to send a further
eight staff members on such courses (para 4.14). The DOH has a continuing
series of local courses in technical and administrative subjects for its
staff, under the direction of its Training Division. Also, on-the-job
field training of DOH staff is carried out through the operations of two
local centers which are engaged in road construction, with assistance from
Australia and Japan in financing, staffing, and provision of equipment.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.0:L     The purposes of the project are to assist in: (i) construction
and improvement of high priority sections of the Provincial road system;
(ii) improving the maintenance of National highways and Provincial roads;
(ii:L) planning of development programs and in carrying out studies and
eng:Lneering, chiefly of Provincial roads, to prepare future road improvement
projects but incLuding also a study of rural (local) roads in selected areas;
(iv) preparing projects for improvement of inland waterway transport and
coastal ports to complement road improvements, particularly the development
of the provincia:L road system; and (v) providing technical assistance and
tra:ining for the DOH and the MOC and for carrying out a study of road user
charges.
4.02      The project consists of:
(a)  construction and improvement, including supervision by consultants,
of 11 sections of provincial roads totalling about 671 km;
(b)  an eight-year program of maintenance of the national highways and
provincial roads, including the procurement of road maintenance and
workshop equipment, with an initial supply of spare parts;
(c)  a review by consultants of the national highway and provincial
road systems to establish priorities for improvement, and feasi-
bility studies by consultants of about 1,500 km of roads (predom-
inantly provincial roads), followed by detailed engineering by
consultants of about 1,200 km, if found justified, and a study by
consuIltants to prepare an investment program for rural roads in
eight selected changwats;
(d)  detailed engineering by consultants for improvements to the water-
way betWween Nakhon Sawan and Klong Toei (Bangkok Port), and for
construction of a port at Nakhon Sawan and related economic studies;
(e) a feas:ibility study of improvements of about 20 coastal ports
and the preparation of a development program for them;
(f)  technical assistance by consultants:
(i) to the DOH, particularly for detailed planning and imple-
menting the agreed road maintenance program, and training
oiE staff; and
(ii) to the MOC for training the staff of the TPU; and executing
a road user taxation study: and
(g) provision of fellowships for training staff of the DOH and TPU.



- 15 -
(a) Construction and Improvement of Provincial Roads
4.03      Eleven sections of provincial roads, totalling about 671 km,
described in Annex 1, will be constructed or improved, all including two lane
bituminous pavements except for one length of 45.5 km between Nong Prue and
Dan Chang, part of the Bo Phloi-Dan Chang road:
(a)  Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok (124 km);
(b)  Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot (76 km);
(c)  Ban Bung-Klaeng (88 km);
(d)  Ban Bung-Ban Khai (66 km);
(e) Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri (74 km)
(and an access road of 2 km);
(f)  Ban Sali-Ayutthaya (37 km)
(and two gravel-surfaced access roads totalling 3 km);
(g)  Sam Khok-Sena (30 km);
(and four gravel-surfaced access roads totalling 10 km);
(h)  Bo Phloi-U Thong (39 km);
(i)  Bo Phloi-Dan Chang (78 km);
(j)  Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha (23 km)
(and four gravel-surfaced access roads toalling 8 km); and
(k)  Hat Yai-Chana (36 km).
4.04      Seven of the above sections will be on new alignments, to serve
areas which presently do not have effective road access; these roads are (a),
(b), (e), (f), (g), (j), and (k) above. The remaining four sections are
unimproved, being little more than tracks, frequently impassable during rainy
weather; they will be reconstructed, with adequate embankments to raise them
above flood levels, bridges and culverts, and widths and surfacing sufficient
for the forecast traffic. The project sections are generally among the
highest priority sections for improvement within the present or proposed
provincial road system and on most sections substantial traffic volumes are
forecast. Although they were chosen primarily to give access to their
service areas, in four cases the newly constructed roads will form important
links in the entire road network, and may eventually be incorporated into
the national highway system. These are roads (a), (e), (j), and (k).
4.05      Feasibility studies, in two phases, were carried out from late
1973 through 1975 by consultants Vallentine, Laurie and Davies (VLD), of
Australia, for roads (a)-(d), and by Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
(SMEC), also of Australia, for 12 provincial roads, including roads ((e)-(k).



- 16 -
The same consultants carried out detailed engineering of the roads in 1976-77.
Both VLD and SMEC carried out their work in association with Thai firms of
engineering consultants. The studies and engineering were financed under the
Fifth Highway Project, Loan 870-TH.
4.06      In the case of road (e) Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri, the existing
road link between Bang Bua Thong and Bangkok (Thon Buri) is inadequate,
for a length of 20 km, to carry the traffic expected from the new Suphan
Buri-Bang Bua Thong road, as well as the existing traffic. During appraisal,
the Government stated it was studying the best way to construct a new road to
link Bang Bua Thong with the main Thon Buri/Bangkok City area road network.
The Government has since confirmed that it plans to construct such a link
with a total length of 25 km. This will consist of a new 17 km section south
from Bang Bua Thong to Taling Chan (a western suburb of Thon Buri). This
section will form part of an eventual Outer Ring Road of the Thon Buri/Bangkok
area; it will be built initially to standards similar to the project road,
that is a 7.0 m wide pavement and 2.5 m shoulders, and an 80 m right-of-way
for eventual widening to a four-lane divided highway. From Taling Chan, a
new road 8 km long will be built eastwards through Thon Buri to join an exist-
ing 6-lane road (Charan Sanitwong) at Bangkok Noi near the Tha Chang Bridge
over the Chao Phya River, which connects with the center of Bangkok; it will
be built as a four-lane divided urban highway with a 60 m right-of-way, which
is already being acquired. Construction of the entire Bang Bua Thong-Taling
Chan-Bangkok Noi link road is scheduled to start by October 31, 1978 and to
be completed by end 1981. Satisfactory assurances on the construction of
this link were given by the Government during negotiations, and a covenant
included in the Loan Agreement. The assurances included agreement that
before awarding any contract for construction of the three roads (e) Bang Bua
Thong-Suphan Buri, (f) Ban Sali-Ayutthaya, and (g) Sam Khok-Sena, (scheduled
for end July 1978), the Government will inform the Bank of progress in
acquiring the right of way for the Bang Bua Thong-Taling Chan-Bangkok link.
4.07      The design of road (k) Hat Yai-Chana, has been prepared on the
assumption that the Government will complete the paving of the section of
recently constructed road Chana-Thepa-Patthani; 10 km has already been paved,
work is proceeding on a further 22 km, and assurance was given by the Govern-
ment that the paving of the remaining 20 km will be completed by the end of
1978.
(b) Supervision of Construction and Improvement
4.08      The Government intends to have supervision of construction and
improvement of the provincial roads carried out by the firms which undertook
the studies and detailed engineering, that is VLD and SMEC. Both consultants
have arranged to carry out the supervision in association with Thai consulting
firms. The staff will mainly consist of Thai nationals, and with only one
foreign engineer on each contract, together with three foreign engineers, for
each firm, based in Bangkok.



- 17 -
(c) Eight-Year Program of Maintenance of the National Highways and Provincial
Roads
4.09      The project includes an eight-year program of maintenance of the
national highways and provincial roads including the procurement of highway
maintenance equipment, with an initial stock of spare parts, to replace worn
out equipment of the DOH. This will provide a total level of serviceable
equipment adequate for the DOH to carry out routine maintenance on the
national and provincial road systems (paras 3.20-3.21). During negotiations
agreement was reached with the Government that it will:
(a) carry out an eight-year program of maintenance of the national high-
ways and provincial roads in accordance with the recommendations of
the highway maintenance study, which will result in gradually
overtaking the backlog of periodic maintenance during the period
1979-86 (para 3.21);
(b) provide adequate budgetary provision for the eight-year period
1979-86, in line with the indicative annual estimates shown in
Table 9; and
(c) set up an arrangement for the funding and future replacement of
equipment as it becomes worn out, and for the purchase of spare
parts, in the form of a "revolving fund".
(d) Studies and Engineering
(i) Roads
4.10      The project includes studies and engineering by consultants, to
assist in planning of development programs for the national highways and
provincial roads and to prepare future road projects. The studies will be
in three phases: Phase I, a review and screening of the entire 12,700 km
national, and 22,250 km provincial road systems to establish a priority
rating for improvement; Phase II, feasibility studies of about 1,500 km of
roads (expected to be predominantly provincial roads) selected from Phase I;
and Phase III, detailed engineering of about 1,200 km of roads to be selected
on the basis of Phase II. During negotiations agreement was reached on the
terms of reference, and the appointment of consultants, satisfactory to the
Bank, and that the selection of roads for the feasibility studies and of
sections for subsequent detailed engineering will be made in agreement with
the Bank; also that the Government will not carry out any works other than
maintenance or minor improvements on the roads selected for feasibility
studies and engineering without first consulting the Bank.
4.11      In addition, the project includes studies and engineering of rural
roads, that is roads of a lower category than provincial roads and which are
maintained by local authorities. The Bank's Rural Road Mission which visited
Thailand in 1976 recommended a rural road investment program study, and this
recommendation was discussed and agreed with the Government (see Thailand:



- 18 -
Review of Rura:L Road Programming, January 7, 1977, Report No. 1419-TH). The
approach suggested was. instead of trying to estimate now the overall plan
requirements (for which little preparatory work has yet been done), to
begin, as a pi:Lot effort, a systematic review of investment needs in selected
high priority areas (say, two typical changwats in each of the country's
four geographic regions). Based on the experience in these changwats, the
entire country may eventually be covered by such reviews. The study will
require about 56 man-months of consultants' time. The Government is in the
process of identifying an agency which will be responsible for planning and
implementation of rural road programs on a country wide basis. Once this
agency has been designated, the Bank will finalize with it the terms of
reference of the study included in this project.
(ii)  Inland Waterways
4.12      A feaLsibility study of inland waterways was carried out by the
French consultants BCEOM, with financing by France, in 1975-77 to plan for
future water transport development, aimed at economizing on the nation's
expenditures for inland transportation, complementing ongoing improvements
to the regional road network and improving the country's position in the
world markets for its export commodities. Waterways have traditionally
played a major role in Thailand's transport system but investments have
been insufficient to realize the potential this mode offers. Nevertheless,
present total traffic on the waterways in the corridor north of Bangkok
amounts to about 8 million tons annually. Based on the findings of the
feasibility study the project includes detailed engineering by consultants of
works to improve navigation on the Chao Phya river from Bangkok to Nakhon
Sawan and the construciton of a regional inland water port at Nakhon Sawan,
and for related economic analyses. The consultants' services are estimated
to total 55 man-months over a period of 12 months. Terms of reference for
the studies were agreed with the Harbor Department (RD) of the MOC during
negotiations.
(iii) Coastal Ports
4.13      The Government of Thailand wishes to ensure that coastal ports
development be coordinated with other transport improvements, in particular
those to the country's network of national and provincial roads. To this
effect, a study by consultants of about 20 coastal ports has been included
in this project to review the adequacy of existing installations, equip-
ment, physical and operatirg conditions with respect to present and projec-
tedl port functiDns and to prepare a development plan. Total consultants'
staff input is estimated at 38 man-months, and the study is expected to
talce 14 months.  Terms of reference were agreed with the HD of the MOC during
negotiations.
(e) Technical Assistance and Training
4.L4      Apart from assistance in planning for road development (para 4.10),
the project incLudes provision of technical assistance by consultants to the
Department of Highways to assist in detailed preparation and execution of the
first part of the road maintenance program and for the training of staff



- 19 -
for road maintenance (para 3.21).  A civil engineer, a mechanical engi-
neer, and an accountant will be provided, for a total of 60 man-months.
Tecinical assistance will also be provided, totalling 44 man-months, to
continue the training of the staff of the MOC (TPU), which had been
initiated by consultants whose contract expired in September 1977 (para
2.16).  The project also includes provision of fellowships for training cf a
further eight members of the DOH in transportation economics, mechanical
engineering, photogrammetry and computer technology, and for eight man-years
of training in transportation, planning and economics by staff of the TPU.
Most of the courses will be overseas, but in a few cases they may be at the
Asian Institute of Technology, a regional institution located in Bangkok.
In addition to their training function, the consultants will undertake a
study of road user charges. Agreement was reached during negotiations on
the terms of reference for technical assistance and training and the employ-
ment of consultants.
B. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.15      The cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at about US$207 million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about US$101 million, or about 49%. Estimated costs are shown in Table 10,
and are summarized below. The estimated average costs per km, excluding
contingency allowances (including contingency allowances shown in parentheses)
are: (a) for construction and improvement US$178,000 (US$232,500); (b) for
supervision by consultants US$12,700 (US$15,600); and (c) for feasibility
studies and detailed engineering by consultants, for national and provincial
roads, US$3,300 (US$4,100). The costs per man-month of consultants serv-ices,
including travel and local subsistance allowances, for the study of inland
waterways is US$7,800 (US$8,800), for the study of coastal ports is US$7,200
(US$7,900), and for technical assistance to the DOH is US$7,000 (US$7,300)
and to the MOC (TPU) is US$9,100 (US$9,600)-.
4.16      Cost estimates for construction and improvement of the eleven
provincial roads were prepared by the consultants VLD and SMEC on the
basis of detailed bills of quantities after completing detailed engineering,
and using unit prices for similar work obtained from competitive bidding in
1975 and 1976, adjusted to cover increases in costs estimated to September
1977, when bids were scheduled to be received. However, there has been
considerable uncertainty in recent years regarding estimating for such works
in Thailand. On the first four highway projects, costs remained very stable.
On the fifth project, initial bids were in line with the cost estimate, but
costs escalated rapidly from 1973 through 1975, and cost increases have
continued, though at a reduced rate.  Perhaps more important, the foreign
firms which had carried out most of the work, and provided strong competition
on roadworks, ceased to operate in Thailand from 1975. This raised doubt: as
to the degree of competition to be expected on future bidding even though the
Government was vigorously trying to attract the interest of foreign contractors
through international advertisement and contacts through embassies, etc. It
was therefore agreed that the Government obtain bids on about half the roads,
to give a better basis for cost estimating, before negotiating the loan. The
cost estimates are based on these bids which proved to be closely in line with
the original appraisal estimates.



- 20 -
% Foreign
Baht (Million)             US$ (Million) /a        Exchange
Project Element               Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Component
A.  Constrimction and
Improvement of 11
Provincial Roads          1,340   1,097   2,437    65.70   53.76   119.46             45
B.  Consulting Services:
(a)  Sujpervision of A       95       78      173     4.69    3.83       8.52        45
(b)  Road Studies
and Engineering         58       53     111      2.84    2.60       5.44        47
(c)  Inland Waterwayrs
Study                    3       14      17      0.12    0.70       0.82        85
(d)  Coastal Ports Study    1          5        6     0.05    0.25       0.30        85
(c)  Technical
Assistance and
Training                 4       16       20     0.20    0.80       1.00        80
Subtotal B:           161     166      327      7.90    8.18    16.08
C.  Maintenance Equipment         90      359     449      4.40   17.60    22.00          80
D. Contingency Allowances
(a)  Physical /b            159      162      321      7.80    7.95    15.75
(b)  Price /c               312      280      592    15.27   13.73    29.00
Subtotal D:           471     442      913    23.07   21.68    44.75
Total Cost of Works            2,062   2,064   4,126   101.07  101.22   202.29
E.  Right c,f Way                 90     -         90      4.40    -          4.40
Total Cost of Project          2,152   2,064   4,216   105.47  101.22   206.69            49
/a  At current exchange rate of US$1.00 - Baht 20.4.
/b  10% on all items.
/c  At assumed annual rates of 9% in 1977-79 and 8% in 1980-82.



- 21 -
4.17      The cost estimates for consulting services for supervision of
construction and imorovement, for road studies and engineering, and for
technical assistance, are based on previous contracts with consultants for
similar work, with costs updated to cover increases estimated to late 1977.
Foreign exchange costs for the supervision, feasibility studies and detailed
engineering are relatively low, since the consultants will carry out the work
in association with Thai firms, and with a majority of Thai personnel.
4.18      Cost estimates for the procurement of maintenance and workshop
equipment, and spare parts, have been prepared by the consultants Kampsax on
the basis of the list of equipment prepared during their study of highway
maintenance, and their assessment of the costs of equipment of the types
proposed, estimated for late 1977.
4.19      The foreign exchange component of road construction and improvement
works has been estimated by the consultants at a little under 50% when carried
out by foreign contractors, and a little over 40% when carried out by Thai
contractors. Based on recent experience, it is likely that under 50% will be
undertaken by foreign firms. On that basis, the average foreign exchange
component is estimated at 45%. The foreign exchange component of consulting
services is estimated to vary from 45% for supervision and feasibility
studies and detailed engineering of provincial roads, to 85% for studies of-
inland waterways and coastal ports, based on experience in recent contracts
with consulting firms, and taking account of the probable proportions of
foreign and Thai staff. The foreign exchange component for maintenance
equipment is estimated at FO%, as it is expected that some of the vehicles
will be assembled, and some components manufactured, in Thailand.
C. Financing
4.20      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$207 million,
and the foreign exchange costs about US$101 million, which will be financed
by the Loan, together with about IJS$q million of local costs of consultants'
services. The remaining local costs of about US$97 million will be met by
the Government (Table 10). The Government has provided adequate funds for
the five previous highway projects, and is expected to continue to provide
funds and to make prompt payments under this project. During loan negotia-
tions, it was confirmed that the Government will make adequate budgetary
provision.
D. Implementation
4.21      The MOC will be responsible for carrying out the project and
will be assisted by consultants in supervising construction and improvement:
works, feasibility studies and detailed engineering, and in planning and
carrying out the road maintenance program, including the procurement of
road maintenance and workshop equipment and the training of staff.



- 22 -
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will employ qualified
and experienced consultants acceptable to the Bank, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; also, that before awarding any contracts for con-
struction and imnprovement, or for procurement of maintenance and workshop
equipment, reports on bids received will be prepared by the consultants and
sent to the Bank with the Government's recommendations for comment.
4.22      Road construction and improvement will be carried out through
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding by
prequalified firms in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for
Procurement." Road maintenance and workshop equipment will be procured
through contracts awarded after international competitive bidding, also in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement"; foreign bids will be
evaluated on the c.i.f. (port of entry) cost, and local bids on the ex-factory
cost allowing a margin of preference to domestic manufacturers equal to 15%
of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty for each item, whichever is lower.
During negotiations, assurance was obtained that the Government will follow
these procedures for procurement.
4.2.3     In carrying out the works, contractors are free to choose their
own methods, subject to works complying with specifications, and to make
their own judgements as to the most economical use of mechanical equipment
and labor. It is not considered appropriate, for this project, to require
greater use of hand labor, not only because it is not Government policy
to do so, but because: (a) the work is not of a kind generally suited to
intensive hand labor methods; (b) there is not widespread unemployment
in Thailand; and (c) wage rates are not distorted and reflect the balance
between demand and the relative scarcity of labor.  For these reasons,
shadow labor rates would not be applicable. It is expected that an average
of about 4,000 men will be directly employed on the construction and improve-
ment: works for an average period of about 4 years from early 1978.
4.24t     The project is not expected to cause any significant ecological
problems. The design of the drainage for the roads, including the structures,
has been carried out carefully, and in collaboration with the Irrigation
Department in appropriate areas, so that the works will not cause or aggravate
flooding or erosion.  The improvement of the roads, which are nearly all to
be paved, will make travel much easier and more comfortable for the inhabi-
tants of the area served. New alignments have been located to minimize
disturbance to property. The Government acquires right-of-way by negotiations
as far a possible, although it has adequate compulsory powers if needed.
There have been a few cases in previous projects where delay in acquiring
right-of-way has caused some disruption and delay in construction. Confir-
mation was obtained during negotiations that the Government will take
action to make available the right-of-way on each road section before
awarding a contract for its construction.
4.25      Contracts are expected to be awarded for the first group of roads
shortly after loan signature, and for the remaining roads in mid-1978. The
construction is expected to be completed by mid 1982. Procurement of road



- 23 -
maintenance and workshop equipment is expected to be completed late 1979.
The studies are expected to be started during the second half of 1978 and to
be completed late 1981. Allowing for making final payments, and completing
disbursements, the closing date for the loan will be December 31, 1982.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on a project
implementation schedule (Table 11) and on arrangements for reporting progress.
E. Disbursements
4.26      Disbursements from the Loan will be on the basis of:
(a)  45% of the total cost of construction and improvement;
(b)  100% of the total cost of consultants' services;
(c)  100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported road maintenance and work-
shop equipment, or the ex-factory price, excluding identifiable
taxes and duties, of locally manufactured equipment, or 65%.of the
total cost of imported and locally purchased equipment; and
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of training of staff (through
fellowships).
On this basis, and on the schedule for executing the project (Table 11), a
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements (Table 12) has been prepared. The cost
estimates for the project, the schedule for execution of the project, and the
schedule of estimated disbursements were reviewed and agreed with the Govern-
ment during negotiations.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01      During the past decade and a half, the Government has devoted
considerable human and material resources to upgrade the national highway
system, in which effort the Bank has assisted with five loans for highways.
As a result of these efforts, the basic network of the national highway
system has now been generally completed, linking most of the major population
centers of all four regions of the country by all-weather highways. During
this period of rapid highway development, the growth of agriculture, princi-
pally in upland crops for export, has been noteworthy, and there has been
some spread of industrial activities to the outlying regions, breaking away
from the traditional concentration in Bangkok, the capital city. While it
may be an overstatement to say that the highway development has been the
primary cause for these expanding economic activities, it is fair to say
that without the highways the task would have been immensely difficult, if
not impossible.



- 24 -
5.02      hlaving provided an all-weather national highway network, the
Government is now giving increasing attention to the improvement of the
provincial road network which, by feeding traffic into the national
network, link more closely the production areas with the major marketing
centers, including Bangkok. This is a logical step to follow in road
development programming, and at this stage there are few problems of identi-
fyinlg priority projects because of relatively high traffic volumes on many of
the provincial roads. The traffic development on the national highways
during the past decade was noteworthy, the estimated average rate of growth
rea(ching levels of well over 10% per annum. Similar growth rates appear to
have been witnessed in the past on the high priority provincial highways
incLuded in the project, some of which will serve average daily traffic
volumes of thousands of vehicles following construction or improvement.
5.03      The objectives of the proposed project which includes construction
of provincial roads and a road maintenance program are to meet this
increasing traffic requirement and to prevent a premature deterioration of
the country's highway system.
B. Construction and Improvement of Provincial Roads
5.04      The 11 provincial roads included in the project are the high
priority provincial roads which were selected based on a consultants'
review of a larger number of roads identified by the Government. (Detailed
discussions of economic justification of the individual roads are carried out
in Annex 2.) These provincial roads currently perform the role of feeding
traffic into and supplementing the national highways. In light of relatively
large traffic potential, some of them are likely to be reclassified into the
natiDnal highway system in the future, particularly those which will provide
more direct and shorter connections between population and marketing centers,
bypassing existing devious roads.
5.05      Five of the project roads would divert some traffic from other modes
of transport such as railways and inland waterways. The diversions were
studied by consultants and found to enhance the economic efficiency and
coordinated development of the transport system. Further steps to increase
efficiency are expected from the planned development of inland waterways and
coasi-al ports for which studies are included in this project. Furthermore,
the study by consultants of road user charges, also included in the project,
has an efficiency objective (Annex 2 para. 18).
5.06      Road investments in Thailand, including the proposed project,
generally follow actual traffic developments, which means the basic and
solidl justification for road projects is provided by already existing traffic.
This is not to say that the prognosis of future traffic is unimportant in
project evaluation; traffic projections should be carefully prepared, as was
done during the preparation of the proposed project to determine the proper
design standard and timing of their implementation. Nevertheless, the
existence of large traffic volumes is an indication of vigorous economic
activity and confirms the high priority of the road sections included in the
project.



- 25 -
5.07      The proposed project will, by providing more economical and con-
venient transportation and by opening up the hitherto relatively isolated
areas, make it possible to:
(a) improve the prices which farmers get for their products through
improved qualities of products and reduced transport cost. (The
consultants' analysis showed that the variation in prices of
agriculture products due to inferior quality could be attributed to
distance from a good road. Good roads make it possible to break up
the trucking monopoly in remote areas by generally increasing
competition among truckers, and thus improve the bargaining position
of the farmers); and
(b)  increase agricultural productivity through more intensive land use.
(The consultants' analysis of data collected shows that from 1 km
to 5 km from a good road, the intensity of land use was 75% to
"100%" while at 15 km distance it might fall to 40%. The same
analysis showed also that over 60% of the variation in the intensity
of land use can be attributed to roads.)
5.08      The projected traffic volumes in the opening year of the roads
range from about 300 up to 8,000 vehicles a day. They are composed of normal
traffic (in cases where a low standard road is already in existence); of
flows diverted to the new facilities from other roads, rail or river transport;
and to a very minor extent, of generated traffic. Each project road has its
own specific traffic characteristics. In preparing the traffic analyses, the
consultants distinguished between six to eight vehicle types, and established
separate growth rates for each individual project road, for passenger and
freight traffic, and for different time periods. These growth rates range
between 3% and 12% per annum. Estimated benefits, which are mainly in the
form of transport cost savings calculated for normal and diverted traffic,
produce economic returns on project roads ranging between 16% and 56% during
their economic life. For more details, refer to Annex 2.
Opening Year                Economic
Traffic Volume               Rates of
Roads                        Year        Daily Traffic        Return (
1.  Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok         1981          900-2,200              33
2.  Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot   1982           400-740                 32
3.  Ban Bung-Klaeng                  1982       3,300-8,400               56
4.  Ban Bung-Ban Khai                1983       1,000-2,600               16
5.  Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri        1982      5,900                     30
6.  Ban Sali-Ayutthaya               1983       2,700                     23
7.  Sam Khok-Sena                    1983       3,600                     27
8.  Bo Phloi-U Thong                  1982      1,300                     47
9.  Bo Phloi-Dan Chang               1982         280-820                 29
10. Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha            1981       2,200                     26
11. Hat Yai-Chana                    1982       1,400                     20



- 26 -
5.09      The project roads are presently free of tolls and estimates of future
traf'fic have been made assuming that no tolls will be levied. An assurance was
obtained from Government during negotiations that it will not introduce tolls
on any sections of the project roads without first carrying out an economic
and financial evaluation and by agreement between the Government and the
Bank.
C. Maintenance Program
5.10      In the past, road maintenance was very much neglected in Thailand,
and this frustrates the purpose of new road construction. However, the
need for preventive road maintenance is gradually being recognized by the
Government, with an increasing realization that money spent on road mainten-
ance is money well spent in terms of avoidance of a large expenditure later
to meet premature reconstruction needs. In this sense, economic analysis to
determine the justification, as differentiated from the optimum level, of
road maintenance is almost redundant not only because the justification is
obvious in terms of the alternative situation, i.e., premature reconstruc-
tion, but also because, to the extent that the decision to build the exist-
ing iroads had been made on economic viability investigation, the maintenance
expenditures throughout their economic life period would have already been
included and justified by the original analysis.
5.11      The proposed maintenance program attempts to provide an optimum
level of maintenance by relating expenditure levels to traffic volumes and
road conditions. In calculating the economic return on the maintenance
program, the consultants identified three classes of roads according to
surface types and subdivided the road categories furthermore according to
traff'ic levels, which were assumed to grow at about 8% per annum over the
program period. With the proposed maintenance program, the proportion of
roads in good to f'air condition was estimated to increase from 85% for paved
roads and 50% for earth and gravel roads to 95% and 90%, respectively. The
average cost of vehicle operation on badly deteriorated roads, both paved
and earth/gravel, was calculated at B 3.40 per vehicle-km and that on roads
maintained in good to fair condition would be about B 2.20. Breakdown of
the program into components and economic cost is:
(a) B 418 million - the cost of equipment procurement
in 1979 which will double the total equipment fleet;
(b) B 60 million - annual replacement of existing equipment
fleet starting in 1980;
(c) B 60 million - annual replacement of equipment to
be purchased under the program, starting in 1985; and
(d) B 40 million rising to B 137 million between 1979 and
1986 representing additional expenditures for labor and
materials of about B 750 million over this period.



- 27 -
5.12      The only type of benefit used in the economic analysis is
s.ivings in vehicle operating costs, and no allowance has been made for
possible traffic diversion to or within the road system and for generated
traffic. The analysis was based on a period of only eight years, and the
very conservative assumption was made that without the proposed maintenance
scheme, the road network would be kept at a constant quality level. On this
basis, the economic rate of return is estimated to be about 80%.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
5.1:3     The estimated economic rates of return on the 11 road sections
have been subjected to sensitivity analyses to determine the effects of
possible variations in the estimated quantities. As shown in Table 14, both
cost increase and benefit decrease have relatively small downward effects on
the rates of return. If cost increased by 10% and benefits decreased by the
same percentage, the extent of decreases in the rates of return would range
between 12% and 19%. On this basis, all the roads indicate rates of return of
about 20% or more, with the exception of the Ban Bung-Ban Khai Road which
shows about 13% rate of return (Table 14).
5.14      In view of the high return on the maintenance program, as the
variation in the costs and benefits is not expected to be large and because of
the conservative estimate of benefits (para 5.12), no sensitivity test on the
maintenance program is deemed necessary.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on a
number of points, the principle ones being:
(a) the extension of the collection and analysis of traffic data to
include the entire provincial road system (para 3.11);
(b)  carrying out an eight-year program of maintenance of the national
highways and provincial roads, in accordance with the recommendlations
of the Highway Maintenance Study (para 3.21), including making
adequate arrangements for the timely provisions of funds and
resources required for that purpose, and setting up a revolving
fund for financing the future replacement of equipment as it
becomes worn out and for the purchase of spare parts (para 4.093
and Table 9);
(c) construction by the Government of a satisfactory road link between
Bang Bua Thong and Thon Buri/Bangkok (para 4.06); and completion
of paving of the Chana-Thepa-Patthani Road (para 4.07);
(d)  selection of roads for feasibility studies and sections of roads
for subsequent detailed engineering, and not carrying out works
other than maintenance or minor improvement on the roads selected



- 28 -
for feasibility studies and engineering except by agreement between
the Government and the Bank (para 4.10); and
(e) not introducing tolls on any sections of the project roads without
first carrying out an economic and financial evaluation and agree-
ment between the Government and the Bank (para 5.09).
6.02      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$110 million (represent-
ing about 53% of the total cost) for a period of 20 years, including a five
yeat period of grace.
January 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Description of Provincial Roads to be Constructed and Improved
A.        Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok (124 km)
1.        The proposed road will provide north-south communication for a
large area in which there are few existing all-weather roads, and they run
in an east-west direction. The area of influence of the proposed road lies
between the Ping and Yom Rivers and is about 2,000 sq km in area. The road
will thus provide a much shorter farm to market route for this intensively
cultivated agricultural area and, in addition, will form a more direct
connection between the Phitsanulok and Sukhothai areas and Bangkok.
2.        The total length of construction is 124 km.  The terrain is almost
entirely flat and gradients are negligible. The horizontal alignment involves
few curves and the design speed is 100 km/h. The roadway will have bituminous
surfacing consisting of a prime coat and double bituminous surface treatment
(DBST). The widths of the roadway and shoulders will vary in five sections
according to the forecast traffic volumes which are estimated, for the first
year atter opening the road, at 2,200 a day at the southern end and 900 a day
in the center. For 25 km from Nakhon Sawan north, and for 2 km at the
Phitsanulok end, the road has been designed to Si/Fl standards (Table 8)
that: is with a 7.0 m wide roadway and 2.5 m wide shoulders. From Km 25 to
Km 48 north of Nakhon Sawan, and from Km 91 to Km 122, near Phitsanulok,
the design standards are S2/F2, with a 6.5 m roadway and 2.25 m shoulders.
The center section Km 48-Km 91 (43 km) has been designed to S3/F3 standards
with 6.0 m roadway and 2.0 m shoulders. There will be two large bridges,
one 255 m long over the Ping River near Nakhon Sawan and one of 135 m over
the Yom River near Phitsanulok. There are 23 smaller bridges varying from
6 m to 80 m, together with 106 box culverts and 240 pipe culverts. The many
drainage structures are required because the country is extremely flat, with
many streams, irrigation and drainage canals and the road is built almost
entirely on embankment to raise it above flood levels.
B.        Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot (76 km)
3.        The proposed new road will provide access to a substantial area of
about 1,800 sq km between the Pasak River, the Chai Badan-Nong Bua Chok Road
and the Saraburi-Nakhon Ratchasima Road. The area was until recently forest
and has no adequate roads, only a few very poor dry weather tracks.
4.        The road will be 76 km long.  The western half, expected to carry
about 600 aadt during the first year of operation, has been designed to
S3/F3 standards, with a 6.0 m roadway and 2.0 m shoulders. The eastern
half, where traffic on opening is forecast at 360 a day has been designed to
S4/F4 standards, with a 5.5 m roadway and 1.75 m shoulders. The terrain is



ANNEX I
Page 2
generally flat to rolling at each end, with a short escarpment section, about
4 km, near the center.  The design speeds are generally 80 km/h, except for
the escarpment section where it falls to 45 km/h in a few places. The
maximum gradient is 8%. Right-of-way width will be 40 m. There will be one
major bridge 150 m long over the Pa Sak River near the western end of the
road, and six smaller bridges between 30 m and 50 m long, together with 39
box culverts and 98 pipe culverts. Traffic volumes on the two sections in
the first year after completion are estimated at 740 a day and 400 a day.
C.        Ban Bung-Klaeng (88 km)
5.        The present road from Ban Bung to Klaeng, in the central region
southeast of Bangkok, is paved for 20 km from Ban Bung to just east of the
intersection with the paved highway Sattahip north to Prachin Buri, but is in
poor condition and inadequate for present traffic. The remaining 67 km from
there to Klaeng consists of a very poor standard road which is impassable
durirng periods of rain. It is largely unimproved, sunken and poorly drained,
narrow and with a few culverts or other drainage structures, and is mainly
earthi surfaced. The existing structures are single lane and mainly of timber,
but a few are of concrete, but usually are too low and with inadequate
hydraulic capacity and structural strength.
6.        The new road 88 km long will be 6 km shorter than the present dry
weather road between Ban Bung and Klaeng, and 38 km shorter than the present
paved road via Rayong. The first 10 km from Ban Bung has been designed to
SD/FD standards, that is with two divided two-lane roadways, each 7.0 m
wide, with 2.5 m shoulders. The remainder of the road has been designed to
SI/FI standards with a single roadway 7.0 m wide and 2.5 m shoulders. Most
of thes road will bie on new alignment, and the pavement will be of asphalt
concrete.  The terrain is flat to very gently rolling and there are no
significant gradients.  The design speed is generally 90 km/h.  There are no
major bridges, but 10 minor ones varying from 24 m to 48 m in length,
together with 49 box culverts and 150 pipe culverts.  Traffic immediately
following completion of the new road is estimated, on the divided highway
section, to vary from about 8,400 to 3,300 a day, and on the remainder of the
road from about 2,500 a day near the ends to about 1,500 a day in the center.
However, traffic volumes in the dry (harvest) season are expected to be
substantially higher than the averages. The right-of-way width will be 60 m,
to accommodate a divided highway.
7.        Between Chonburi and Ban Bung, the present road is inadequate in
width and structural strength for the present and projected traffic. The
Government plans to widen the existing road to four lanes and to complete
the work before completing construction of the two proposed project roads
Ban Bung-Klaeng and Ban Bung-Ban Khai.
D.        Ban Bung-Ban Khai (66 km)
8.        The present road from Ban Bung towards Ban Khai, in the central
province southeast of Bangkok, is a substandard bituminous surfaced road,



ANNEX 1.
Page 3
in badly deteriorated condition, for about 12 km, as far as the intersection
with the existing national road Sattahip-Prachin Buri. The remaining 54 km
from there to Ban Khai is a very low standard unpaved road, largely unimproved,
with a poor alignment, and is sunken, with inadequate drainage; it is
gravelled in some sections, but largely is earth surfaced. The road
is often impassable in the rainy season.
9.        The road will be constructed on a new alignment 66 km long, that
is a saving in distance of about 10 km. The terrain is generally flat to
gently rolling, with no significant gradients, and the design speed is
generally 90 km/h. The road has been designed to S2/F2 standards for 39 km,
that is with a 6.5 m roadway and 2.25 m shoulders. The remaining 27 km
has been designed to S3/F3 standards with 6 m roadway and 2 m shoulders.
The road will have DBST bituminous pavement. Right-of-way width will be
40 m. Traffic volumes in the first year after construction are expected to
vary from 2,600 to about 1,000 a day on various sections of the road. There
will be 6 bridges varying from 30 m to 40 m long, 43 box culverts and 88 pipe
culverts.
E.        Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri (74 km)
10.       The proposed road will run through the center of an intensively
cultivated area northwest of Bangkok which is presently not accessible by
road. The area lies between the Chao Phya and Tha Chin Rivers northwest of
Bangkok and is flat and irrigated rice-growing farmland which is often
flooded for several months each year. Existing transport is by water. The
proposed road, together with the Ban Sali-Ayutthaya and Sam Khok-Sena (two
other project roads, see below) will form a basic network of roads in this
area, giving access to most of the population via access roads chiefly
following the dikes of the canals.
11.       The proposed road will start at Bang Bua Thong (population 30,000),
about 23 km northwest of Bangkok, and run for 76 km to Suphan Buri (popula-
tion 112,000). The terrain is flat and the design speed is 90 km/h. The
road has been designed to Sl/Fl standards with a 7.0 m asphalt concrete
pavement and 2.5 m shoulders. The right-of-way will be 80 m, to provide for
the construction of an additional two-lane roadway in the future. A 2 km
gravel road, 8 m wide, will be constructed to a village which is an amphoe
(district) headquarters. The construction includes 25 bridges with a total
length of 2,630 m. Traffic in the first year after opening is expected to
be about 5,900 a day. Part of the traffic will be diverted from waterways,
and part generated; however, the majority of the traffic is expected to be
diverted from other roads, since the new road will shorten the distance
between Bangkok and Suphan Buri by about 50 km.
F.        Ban Sali-Ayutthaya (37 km)
12.       The proposed east-west road will be part of the network of new
roads (together with Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri and Sam Khok-Sena) serving
the area between the Chao Phya and Tha Chin Rivers. From Ban Sali, on the



ANNEX 1
Page 4
proposed Bang BuaL Thong-Suphan Buri Road, the road runs east for 17 km
through an area accessible only by waterways, to Sena (population 48,000).
From there to Ayutthaya (population 82,000) there is an existing gravel road
20 km long constructed on a flood control dike, with some existing narrow
briclges, but with no bridge over the Chao Phya River, which is crossed by
ferry. The average travel speed on the existing road is 30 km/h.
13.       The proposed road will be constructed on a new alignment directly
from Ban Sali to Ayutthaya via Sena, 37 km. The terrain is flat with many
irrigation and drainage canals and the area is subject to flooding. The
road will be built on embankment, with a design speed of 80 km/h and negligible
gradients except at some bridge approaches where it will be 4% for short
distances. The road has been designed to S3/F3 standards with 6 m wide DBST
pavement and 2 m shoulders. There will be nine bridges totalling 1,565 m
over the main irrigation and drainage canals. Two access roads 8 m wide with
gravel surfacing, and totalling 2 km long, will be built to two towns adjoin-
ing the proposed alignment. Right-of-way width will be 60 m. The traffic
forecast for the first year after opening the road is about 2,700 a day.
G.        Sam Khok-Sena (30 km)
14.       This is the third of the proposed roads which will together form a
network in the area northwest of Bangkok (together with the previous two
roads Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri and Ban Sali-Ayutthaya). There is an
existing gravel road on a flood control dike on the west bank of the Chao
Phya River, for about 8 km north from Sam Khok. From there to Sena there is
no existing road. Connection between Sam Khok and Sena is via a very
devious route through Ayutthaya. The alignment runs through flat irrigated
terrain which is subject to flooding for several months each year.
15.       The new road will run directly from Sam Khok to Sena where it will
meet the proposed Ban Sali-Ayutthaya road. It has been designed for 90 km/h
to S2/F2 standards, with a 6.5 m asphalt concrete pavement and 2.25 m
shoulders.  The right-of-way will be 80 m, to allow for future construction
of an additional two-lane roadway. There will be 8 bridges totalling 1,452 m
in length.  Four access roads will be constructed with lengths of 2 km, 2 km,
6 km, and I km, each 8 m wide with gravel surface, to connect four towns with
the proposed road. The traffic forecast for the first year after opening
the road is about 3,600 a day.
H.        Bo Phloi-U Thong (39 km)
16.       The present road runs from the amphoe (district) headquarters of
Bo Phloi (population 33,000) in the western part of the central region,
eastwards to U Thong (population 82,000) which is on the road between
Kanchanaburi and Suphan Buri. The road was constructed on a low embankment,



ANNEX I
Page 5
but is of low standard, on a circuitous alignment, and is in poor condition,
amounting to little more than a four wheel drive track, with a normal
travelling speed of only 25 km/h.
17.       The new road will be on a new alignment, which shortens the
distance by 15 km. The terrain is mostly flat to slightly undulating, and
is largely devoted to rice cultivation. The design speed is 80 km/h, maximum
gradient 4%, and the road wil be constructed on embankment as required for
flood levels. The design standards are S41F4, with a 5.5 m DBST pavement
and 1.75 m shoulders. There will be one bridge of 40 m. Right-of-way width
will be 40 m. Traffic in the first year after completion is forecast at 600
a day.
1.        Bo Phloi-Dan Chang (78 km)
18.       The existing road runs northward from Bo Phloi (population 33,000)
in the western part of the central region, northwards for 32.5 km to Nong
Prue (population 3,000). From there it runs a further 45.5 km to Dan Chang
(population) 8,000). Between Bo Phloi and Nong Prue the width is 7-8 m
and is unpaved but in fair condition; travel speed is about 40 km/h. From
Nong Prue to Dan Chang the standard falls to a four wheel drive track on a
poor alignment and travel speed is reduced to 15 km/h. About 50% of the
cultivated area is devoted to rice, and the remainder to sugarcane, maize,
cassava, and sorghum.
19.       The new road will be constructed in two sections with different
standards. From Bo Phloi to Nong Prue it will follow the existing alignment
with minor improvements, with a design speed of 80 km/h and a maximum gradient
of 4%. The design standards are S4/F4, with a 5.5 m DBST pavement and 1.75 m
shoulders and a 40 m right-of-way. From Nong Prue to Dan Chang, the new
road will be on a new alignment except for a section from Km 52 to Km 70,
where it follows an old track. The minimum design speed is 60 km/h and the
maximum gradient is 12% over a short distance, otherwise it is limited to
6%. The design standards are S5/F5, with an 8.0 m wide gravel surface and
30 m right-of-way. On the entire length of road there are five bridges
totalling 260 m. The traffic in the first year after completion is forecast
at 820 a day on the first section Bo Phloi-Nong Prue, and 280 a day on the
second section Nong Prue-Dan Chang.
J.        Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha (23 km)
20.       This is a proposed section of new road northwest from Hat Yai to
fulfill two purposes: (i) to serve some small towns and villages on and
near the railway line; and (ii) to provide a better and shorter section of
the main national route north of Hat Yai towards Phatthalung. The towns and
villages near the railway are presently poorly served by a very low grade
track which is narrow, sunken, subject to flooding, badly aligned, rough,
and with a maximum travel speed of 15 km/h. The existing national road north
of Hat Yai is poorly located on a loop which extends 10 km to the west of
the proposed new direct alignment between Hat Yai (population 189,000) and



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Sam Yak Khuha (population 5,000), which will shorten the route by 14.5 km.
The project includes the construction of two access roads of 6.12 km and
2.0 km across the railway to two towns with populations of 6,000 and 4,000.
21.       The new road has a design speed of 90 km/h and is generally over
flat t:errain, but crosses one short undulating section with a maximum gradient
of 6%. The design standards are S2/F2 with a 6.5 m asphalt concrete pavement
and 2.25 m shoulders. There are five bridges with a total length of 240 m
and the right-of-way is 80 m, which will allow for construction of a second
two-lane roadway in the future. The two access roads are designed for 60 km/h
and to S5/F5 standards with a width of 9.0 m and gravel surface, and a 40 m
right--of-way. Traffic in the first year after completion is forecast at
2,200 a day.
K.        Hat Yai-Chana (36 km)
22.       The present road from Hat Yai (population 189,000) to Chana
(population 55,000) is via an indirect route through Songkhla (population
129,000). The roacd is paved, but averages only 5.5 to 6 m wide and has
narrow shoulders of only about 1.0 m.
23.       The proposed road will follow a new alignment which is 18 km
shorter than the present road via Songkhla. For about 5 km east from Hat Yai,
the new alignment follows an existing low grade gravel surfaced road which is
about 8 m wide, through level to gently rolling terrain. This road has no
shoulders or road drains, and inadequate culverts. From there the road
follows a new route through level country for about 5 km and then across
flat to rolling country for a further 14 km before intersecting the existing
Songkhla-Chana Road, which it then follows for the remaining 12 km to Chana,
and which will be reconstructed. The design speed for the new road is
generally 90 km/h, but for a short section in the rolling terrain it is
reduced to 55 km/h, with a maximum gradient of 8%. The design standards
are S3/F3, with a 6.0 m DBST pavement and 2.0 m shoulders. There will be
five bridges with a total length of about 260 m. The right-of-way width
will be 40 m. Traffic forecast for the first year after completion is
1,400 a day.
24.       From Chana to Patthani, the Department has recently completed a
new high standard road. Initially it had a gravel surface, but a length of
10 km at the Patthani end has recently been paved, and work proceeding on
paving a further 22 km south from Chana. The remaining 20 km length is
scheduled to be paved in 1978. Funding for this pavement is entirely from
the budget. It is probable that the entire length of Sam Yak Khuha-Hat Yai-
Channa-Patthani will, after completion, be classified as part of the national
highway network. The new road will be shorter and have a better alignment
than the existing national road and is expected to attract most of its
present traffic, and to generate additional traffic, as well as serving
towns and villages along the new route.
January 1978



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Economic Review of the Project Roads
Nakhon Sawan Phitsanulok Road (124 km)
1.        This road is to be located in the lowlands subregion of the
Northern Region of Thailand, where the terrain is relatively flat, and
agriculture, principally rice growing, is the major economic activity.
Nearly 90% of the people are engaged in farming and the balance in processing
industries, mainly rice milling. Maize, sorghum and sugar cane cultivation
began recently.
2.        There is no existing through road on the road's alignment.  There
are a few dry-weather tracks traversing the area in a north-south direction
and generally winding along the high level planting ground above the flood
plain. The two terminal points of the road are major centers of urban popUi-
lation (each having a population of 55,000 and 72,000, respectively), and the
total population to be affected in the route corridor outside these cities is
about 180,000. Due to the inflow of settlers into the uncultivated areas, the
population growth has been high in recent years. Numerous smaller population
centers are located along the Nan River which runs along the eastern border
of the area.
3.        The main objective of the project is to provide a reliable, dir,ect
transport means to this relatively isolated, but productive, area. The road
will help evacuate agricultural products from the area at reduced cost and
eliminate the delays that occur nowadays, which results in waste of agri-
cultural products. Moreover, the direct road connection between Nakhon Sawan
and Phitsanulok will divert to this road a considerable volume of traffic
from the existing various circuitous routes both between the two terminal
points (distance saving nearly 130 km) and between smaller centers along
the routes (distance saving from 8 km to 50 km). About one half of the
projected opening year (1981) traffic of 900 to 2,200 vehicles a day would
be the traffic diverted from other existing roads. The traffic is projected
to grow at an average annual rate of 6% during the 15-year economic life of
the road. No significant traffic diversion from either the railway or the
waterways would take place. Although located not very far from the road's
alignment, the railway serves an area separated by two rivers from the
road's service area. The rivers have not been used for waterway transport
for some years due to siltation. The savings in transport cost, including
those from the shortened distance of travel by the diverted traffic, would
produce an economic rate of return of about 33%.
Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot Road (76 km)
4.        The road's area of influence was formerly a forest reserve which
was cleared recently by settlers for growing upland crops - cassava and
maize - as well as rice. Located in the eastern part of the Central Region



ANNEX 2
Page 2
bordering the Northeastern Region, the area at present is settled in patches
and much of the land is only partly used due primarily to the isolated
condition. Only about two thirds of the cleared area is currently under
cultivation. Better transport is expected to improve the situation. Studies
available in Thailand suggest that provision of good roads tends to increase
the rate of use of available land by as much as 37%, and that the degree of
double cropping in areas adjacent to good roads is approximately 40% greater
than iT4 remote areas of similar natural conditions.
5.        Nevertheless, mainly through private initiatives of the settlers,
about 370,000 rai of the total cultivable land area of 570,000 rai, or about
65%, is presently under cultivation. Moreover, modern agricultural inputs
are being introduced to improve yield and reduce cost. For example, the
number of tractors used for agriculture increased by 70% in three years
between 1970 and 1973, while the number of buffalos increased by only 10%
during the same period.
6.        The existing dry-weather tracks are extremely rough, making trans-
port sLow and costly.  On Pa Sak River near Ban Chai Badan, there is presently
no bridge and a privately operated ropeway across the river is used to move
both goods and persons. The proposed project will provide a bridge here.
7.        For a sim:ilar reason as for the Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok Road, no
signifi'cant traffic diversion from either the railway or waterways is expected.
As there is no road, other than the scattered dry-weather tracks, no reliable
traffic estimate for the road can be made based on the traffic on these tracks.
Therefore, the consultants prepared traffic estimates for 1982, the projected
opening year of the road, based on total agricultural transport needs and
the accompanied need for movement of the people and other freight. On this
basis, the 1982 traf'fic is estimated in the range of 400 to 740 vehicles a
day for different sections of the road. The average rates of traffic growth
during the 15 years' economic life range between 3% and 6% for different
sections of the road.. On this basis, the transport cost saving from the
proposed construction of the road would produce an economic rate of return
of about 32%.
Ban Bung-Klaeng Road (88 km) and Ban Bung-Ban Khai Road (66 km)
8.        These two roads will serve adjoining cassava producing areas in
southeastern Thailand. While the two roads perform similar functions in
relatively proximate areas, both would have to be built because their res-
pective service areas are separated by a mountain range making it impossible
to provide lateral transport connections.
9.        The areas were formerly the Government's forest reserve but, spurred
by the tapioca /1 export boom, was opened up by spontaneous settlement of
cassava planters during the past few years. To meet the transport need of
/1 Tapioca is the processed product of cassava used for production of starch
and as animal feed.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
this agricultural settlement, the settlers, using their own resources, kept
the existing, badly deteriorated roads to a barely passable condition.
However, despite the efforts of the settlers, they are extremely rough, un-
reliable and high cost transport routes, especially considering the relatively
large volumes of the existing traffic which range from 300-3600 and 150-1000
vehicles a day on individual sections of the two roads.
10.       These roads' service areas are ideally located for cassava produc-
tion because of the proximity of the marketing center (Bangkok) and export
ports. The naval port of Sattahip, only about 60 km from Ban Khai, has now
been designated by the Government for civilian bulk cargo export port, and
B 120 million has been allocated in the current year's budget for remodeling
a part of the naval port for civilian use. Moreover, a bulk loading jetty
with a weekly capacity of 80,000 tons has recently been completed near
Siracha, and about 35 km from Ban Bung, by a private grain storage firm.
The main product of the area, other than cassava, is sugar. About 85% of
the inhabitants engage in growing these upland crops.
11.       In addition to transporting agricultural products to the marketing
and export centers, the roads will provide a short-cut route for some long
distance traffic. The Ban Bung-Klaeng Road will reduce the driving distance
of the Klaeng/Chantha Buri-Chon Buri traffic by 38 km or 27%. About 1,300
vehicles which would otherwise travel via Sattahip are expected to be
diverted to this road in 1982. For Ban Bung-Ban Khai Road, about 120 vehicles
that travel between the Rayong area and Chaechoengsao and Nakhon Ratchasima
in the Northeastern Region are expected to be diverted to this road in 1983.
There is no diversion of traffic from either railways or inland waterways as
these modes of transport do not serve the region.
12.       The total traffic on the Ban Bung-Klaeng Road in 1982, the pro-
jected opening year, would range between 3,300-8,400 vehicles a day and
they are projected to grow at an average rate ranging between 6% and 8% p.a.
during the 15-year economic life. On this basis, the economic rate of
return would be about 56%.
13.       The opening year (1983) traffic volumes on the Ban Bung-Ban
Khai Road would be smaller than the Ban Bung-Klaeng Road - (1,000-2,600) -
because of the relativelv limited service area of the road and the small
volume of long distance traffic to be diverted to this road. The traffic
is projected to grow at an average rate of 6 to 7% p.a. during the 15-year
economic life and the economic rate of return would be about 16%.
Bang Bua Thon-Suphan Buri Road (74 km), Ban Sali-Ayutthaya Road (37 km)
and Sam Khok-Sena (30 km)
14.       These three roads would form a network of provincial roads in the
generally well-irrigated rice producing Central Plains Region, which is
presently served almost exclusively by inland waterways, i.e., rivers,
canals and channels. The economic justification of individual roads is to



ANNEX 2
Page 4
some extent interdependent. For example, the construction of the Sena-
Sam Khok Road presumes the building of the Ban Sali-Ayutthaya Road going
through Sena at its mid-point. Similarly, the Ban Sali-Ayutthaya Road
feeds traffic into the Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri Road at Ban Sali.
15.       The influence areas of the proposed roads are almost fully under
cuLtivation.  Any increase in agricultural production in the future, there-
fore, would be through crop intensification either by double cropping of rice
with expanded irrigation or, in the southern part of the area, by switching
from rice to vegetable growing for marketing in Bangkok. The latter would
become feasible with faster road transport. Also, the availability of roads
could be expected to induce movement of industries, especially agro-based
varieties, to these areas.
16.       The maLin benefits of the proposed roads are the economical and
convenient transport between the service areas of the roads and the
marketing centers, principally the Bangkok metropolitan area. The existing
road traffic between the general service areas of the roads and Bangkok
travels through either Nakhon Pathom and Phetkasem Highway or Route 1, the
north-south trunk highway through Bang Pa In. Using the network of the
proposed roads, this traffic will save the driving distance by 10 km to
64 km. A considerable volume of the inland waterway traffic would be
diverted to the new roads, which will provide a quicker and more flexible
transport to the service areas of the roads. The consultants' investigation
showed that the passenger fare on waterways presently is about four times
the bus fare. In addition to this fare difference, the quick travel time
by bus would cause a large diversion of passengers from the waterways to
highways. For freight transport, there is no large difference in the trans-
port charges between the two modes; nevertheless, there would be a large
diversion to highways on the part of the freight traffic whose nature and
location would make it possible to profit from the faster and more flexible
transport by roads.  The economic saving of road transport over waterway
transport was estimated at B .19 per passenger/km and B .04 per ton/km. Such
diverted traffic volumes would represent about one half the traffic on the
Ban Sali-Ayutthaya and Sena-Sam Khok Roads and about 20% of traffic on the
Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri Road.
17.       To the extent that road transport is economically more efficient
for certain types of traffic at certain locations, the diversion of such
traffic to roads is considered as a change which is conducive to overall
economic growth even if the loss of traffic on the waterways will give rise
to the usual problems of adjusting to changed situations, i.e., unemploy-
ment of some barges and their operators. The areas where the network of
three roads are to be built have now reached the point where the waterways
alone cannot adequately meet their diverse transport requirements and would
cause a retardation of economic growth. This, however, is not to say there
is no danger of some uneconomic diversion of traffic from waterways to roads
although any such diversion is unlikely to be large because both trans-
port modes are internally so competitive that their charges appear closely
related to cost. Much of the traffic diversion is likely to be caused by the



ANNEX 2
Page 5
waterways' antiquated mode of operation, and such diversion would occur with
or without the road project, as presently being witnessed in the Central
Plains Region. Of course, the trend would be accentuated by the investments
in roads. The measures that are required to prevent uneconomic diversion of
traffic, therefore, are those that will help more fully exploit the economic
potential of waterway transport and not discourage the development of road
transport. The two modes should develop side by side, and there should
eventually emerge an optimal pattern of traffic diversion between the two
modes, as has been witnessed in the development of road and railway transport
for the country as a whole during the past decade or so.
18.       The Government has carried out a study of inland waterway transport
with the French Government's assistance. Based on its findings, detailed
engineering and related economic studies have been included in this project
to prepare an inland waterway project. The Government will under the Sixth
Highway Project carry out a review of road-user charges by consultants, with
the assistance of the TPU of the MOC. While the aggregate level of user
charges does not appear to give any advantage to road transport over waterway
transport, it is not clear whether the present structure of user charges is
rational, e.g., the differential in charge levels between truck and passenger
cars and the possible transfer of user charge revenues collected in Bangkok
metropolitan area to the outlying regions. The study, therefore, will
pay special attention to the incidence of road-user charges in different
geographical regions and among types of vehicles.
19.       The opening year (1982-83) traffic volumes on the three roads are
estimated at 5,900, 2,700 and 3,600 vehicles per day, and they are projected
to grow at average rates of 8% to 11% p.a. The shortening of driving distance
and the speedier transport by roads together with cost reductions from im-
proved conditions of those existing road sections would produce the following
eConomic rates of return:
Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri Road:          30%
Ban Sali-Ayutthaya Road:                  23%
Sam Khok-Sena Road:                       27%
Bo Phloi-U Thong Road (39 km) and Bo Phloi-Dan Chang Road (78 km)
20.       These two roads, one from Bo Phloi eastward to U Thong and the other
from the same town north of Dan Chang, serve similar adjoining agricultural
areas with little irrigation. About 50% of the cultivable land of the areas
is accounted for by rice, but further development of rice cultivation is not
expected because of poor soil and lack of irrigation. Instead, the future
growth of agriculture in the areas would be in sugarcane and other upland
crops, such as maize, cassava and sorghum, for which the soil is more suited.
In fact, following the recent general trend of rapid expansion of upland
crops for the country as a whole, such an agricultural activity grew at fast



ANNEX 2
Page 6
rates. The expansion of the area of cultivation in the roads' service areas,
for example, increased annually at 8% between 1963 and 1972 and over 10%
between 1972 and 1974, much of which being accounted for by sugar and other
upland crops. During this period, there was a net decline of rice cultivation
in the areas.
21.       The expansion of upland agriculture has attracted a considerable
number of migrants into the area. In some changwats, such as Bo Phloi,
population grew by nearly 10% p.a. during the five years, 1965-70. Rapid
population growth has the effect on traffic growth - the growth rate in
recent years appears to have been nearly 20% p.a..
22.       Bo Phloi-U Thong Road will be connected at U Thong to an all-weather
road to Suphan Buri and Ang Thong, the population and marketing centers of
the irrigated Central Plains Region.
23.       A road exists between Bo Phloi and U Thong which was built on a low
embankment and poor alignment, badly maintained and has deteriorated to little
more than a four-wheel drive track. The maximum driving speed on this road is
25 km/h. Nevertheless, the existing traffic on this road ranges between 20
and nearly 500 vehicles a day on different sections, with a weighted average
of about 300 vehicles a day. In addition, there is motorcycle traffic of
about 60-1,300 a day. The relocation of alignment under the project would
result in 15 km of shortening of the road length.
24.       The traffic volume at opening of the projected road in 1982 would be
over 600 vehicles a day with a similar number of motorcycles on the entire
length of the road. On the basis of the projected traffic growth of about 5%
to 7% p.a. during its 15-year economic life, the economic rate of return of
the Bo Phloi-U Thong Road would be about 47%.
25.       The first 32.5 km section of the Bo Phloi-Dan Chang Road between
Bo Phloi and Ban Nong Prue is a laterite all-weather road and the remaining
45.3 km from Ban Nong Prue to Dan Chang is a four-wheel drive track on a very
poor alignment where the travel speed is no more than 15 km/h.  The traffic on
the first section is substantial at over 300 vehicles a day but, reflecting
its bad condition, the second section's traffic is much lower, at about 70 a
day.
26.       The traffic on the first section is projected to increase to about
800 a day by 1982, the opening year of the road. On the second.section, based
on the consultants' survey of traffic desire line, the traffic volume is
expected to be nearly 300 vehicles a day.  On the basis of the projected 5%
annual growth rate of traffic during its 15-year economic life, the Bo Phloi-
Dan Ching Road's economic rate of return is about 29%.
Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha Road (23 km) and Hat Yai-Chana Road (36 km)
27.       These two provincial roads in the southern region, both starting from
Hat Yai (population: 65,000), one running to the north and the other to the
south, are needed principally to serve the rapidly growing traffic to and



ANNEX 2
Page 7
from Hat Yai, the hub of the southern region and one of the most rapidly
growing cities in Thailand. Due to the growing economic importance of the
South and the recent trend of an increasing integration of the South with the
rest of the country from which the region is geographically isolated, an
international airport was built in Hat Yai a few years ago, which is the
second international airport in Thailand after Don Muang Airport in Bangkok.
A few kilometers from Hat Yai is located the Port of Songkhla, which is the
main ocean port of the South and for which planning is now being completed
for its expansion and modernization into a deep-water port to accommodate
ocean-going vessels at a cost of US$25 million. The project is expected to
be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
28.       The rapid growth of the transport requirement of commerce, industry
and administration around Hat Yai made it a priority need to provide quick
diresct access to Hat Yai partly replacing the old round-about road accesses
which were built at the time when Hat Yai's prominence was not yet established.
The major justification of these two roads therefore is the shortening of
driving distance to through traffic to and from Hat Yai.
29.       The total length of the Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha Road will be 23 km.
The road will be a short-cut alignment providing an alternative route between
Rattaphum (population: 60,000) and Hat Yai in lieu of a section of the exis-
ting Highway 4 and shortening the distance by 14.5 km. The land in the area
is underdeveloped and the road will make this land accessible to farmers.
For this purpose, the project includes two access roads of a total length of
about 8 km to serve villages nearby.
30.       The 1975 traffic study recorded about 1,550 vehicles a day at the
section between Rattaphum and Hat Yai on Highway 4. About 60% of this
traffic is expected to be diverted to the proposed route. With the road
completed by 1981, the traffic on the road would be about 2,200 a day
including a generated component and diversion from rail. The sections of
the Southern Railway between Phatthalung, Hat Yai, Chana, Thepha and Yala
carry considerable quantity of local freight traffic. According to the
consultants, about 75% of all goods traffic started in this rail corridor
is destined to Hat Yai. Much of such traffic is expected to be diverted
to the new road, and such diversion of small lot, short-distance traffic
to roads has been shown to be beneficial to the economy as well as the
railway itself which became unburdened with this high cost, unprofitable
traffic. There have been clear signs during the past decade or so that
the State Railway of Thailand is becoming more and more specialized in
long-distance bulk transport, and that it is becoming a commercial enter-
prise which seeks out major shippers and tries to improve its services to
them. The latter is in clear contrast to the bureaucratic attitude which
the railway maintained before there was competition from road transport
and such a reorientation in the railway's attitude is an additional benefit
of highway development.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
31.       The 1981 road traffic composition is expected to be about 30%
trucks, a little less than 10% buses and 60% light vehicles, i.e., vans and
passenger cars. With an estimated average rate of traffic growth of about
9%, the economic rate of return based on transport cost savings during the
15-year economic life of the road would be about 26%.
32.       The Hat Yai-Chana Road will complete a direct connection between
Hat Yai and the other major population centers of the South-Pattani and
Narathiwat.  A high standard coastal road between Chana and Pattani through
Thepha (population: 41,000) is being completed under the Government's own
financing, and a road between Pattani and Narathiwat had been built under
the Bank's First Highway project in the mid-sixties.
33.       The existing 33 km direct link between Hat Yai and Chana, and
thereefore with Pattani, is an earth road in a deteriorated condition, of
which a mid-section of about 10 km, which covers hilly terrain, is impass-
able to all but four-wheel drive, even in the dry season. The Hat Yai-
Chana traffic now uses the round-about paved roads via either Klong Ngae
(81 kLm) or Songkh:La (66 km). The new road would shorten the travel
distance between HIat Yai and Chana by about 45 km or 30 km depending on
the present route individual vehicles take. The paved road between Hat
Yai and Songkhla iis in poor condition. It has a bad alignment which crosses
the railroad a number of times, and is somewhat congested with over 3,000
vehicles a day. Consequently, the majority of traffic now uses the longer
route. through Klong Ngae. The long-distance traffic between Hat Yai and
Pattani, which is expected to acquire an increasing importance in the future
as the Southern region's economy continues to grow, presently bypasses Ghana
and uses Route 42 through Klong Ngae for a distance of 103 km. This long-
distance traffic will save 27 km in driving distance. In addition, for the
same reason as for the Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha Road above, there would be
some diversion of highway traffic to this road.
34.       The traffic that will use the project road is projected to be
about 1,400 vehicles a day in 1982, the projected opening year of the road,
and estimated to grow at an average rate of 9% p.a. Based on the estimates
of savings in vehicle operating costs due both to the improved road condition
and shortening of distance and economic savings from the diversion from the
railway, the project would give an economic rate of return of about 20%
during its economic life.
January 1978



TABLE 1
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Government Investment in Transport during
Third and Fourth Five-Year Development Plans
(g Million)
Third Five-Year      Fourth Five-Year    a/
Development Plan    Development Plan
Mode                               1972-76              1977-81
Roads
National                          8,200                8,868
Provincial                        6,800               11,290
Local                             1,600                2,132
Subtotal                 16,600               22,290
Railways                            2,470                3,945
Inland Waterways
and Ports                             920                1,620
Civil Aviation
(including airports)                  890                2,850
Total                    20,880               30 705
Transport as Percentage
of Development Expenditures            20                   12
Source: Department of Highways
a/ Plan is presently being reviewed by Government
January 1978



TABLE 2
TPAIIAND
SIXTh HIG'WAY (PROVENCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Department of HighwavT. Road Construction Program, 1977-81
Regional Di3tribution and Sources of Finance
Expected                 Northenr          Northeastern           Central             Southern              Total
iources of Finance         KM  '3iUllion    Km   8 Million    Km   I Million    Km   3 Million    Km   I Million
Cational 'r.ighwavs
Corstruction    acvernment Budget only   167.7    352.7           96.6    230.3    328.5   2277.8          72.3    130.0    665.1   2990.8
-nment Budget and
-teral Aid                69.0    264.0    227.5    234.5    111.8    120.0            62.0      97.0    470.3    724.5
--rnment Budget and
International
A.enr.cies)                 307.;   L137.0       32.2      80.0    396.8   1740.0    196.1    580.8    932.8   3537.8
:nprovenenr   ~overnment Budget only   129.5    207.9    484.2    559.8    341.0    436.0    293.9    411.6   1248.9   1615.3
Subtocal                              674.2   1961.0    840.3   1113.6   1178.1   4573.8    624.3   1219.4   3317.1   8868.4
Provincial Roads
Construction   Government Budget only  1792.6   2226.3   1661.0   1714.9    871.5   1153.2    895.5   1038.7   5220.6   6533.1
Government Budget and
Loans (International
Agencies)                   318.0    709.0    236.0    370.0    430.6   1083.0            95.8    274.6   1080.4   2409.6
Improvement    Government Budget only   509.0    540.5    824.3    974.9    471.6    558.6    249.8    272.9   2054.7   2347.1
Subtotal                             2619.6   3875.8   2721.3   3059.8   1773.7   2795.0   1241.1   1559.2   8355.7  11289.8
Total                                3293.8   5837.4   3561.6   4173.4   2951.8   7368.0   1865.4   2778.6  11672.8  20158.2 a/
of Tota' Le.ngth                                28                  31                  25                   16                 100
of Total Cost                                             29                  21                   36                  14                 100
a/ The total does not include expenditure for local roads vhich are
not administered by the Highwav Department.  For the Fourth Plan,
planned expenditure for local roads is about 3 2.1 billion.
Sources:  Department of Highways
January 1978



THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Roads Maintained by the Department of Highways 1963-76
(km)
National highways                            Provincial roads                    National highways and provincial roads
Improved roads           Unimproved
Year   Paved   Gravel    Total /a    Paved   Gravel    Total /a    roads /b    Total    Paved   Gravel   Unimproved    Total
1963   4,157    4,917    9,074             203    1,998    2,200         5,800/c    8,000        4,360    6,915       5,800/c   17,074
1964   4,702    4,702    9,404             257    1,957    2,214           n.a.        n.a.      4.959    6,659        n.a.        n.a.
1965   5,046    4,436    9,482             405    2,389    2,794           n.a.        n.a.      5,451    6,825        n.a.        n.a.
1966   5,008    4,490    9,498             427    2,569    2,996           n.a.        n.a.      5,435    7,059        n.a.        n.a.
1967   5,507    4,011    9,518             581    3,311    3,892           n.a.        n.a.      6,088    7,322        n.a.        n.a.
1968   6,613    3,131    9,744          1,131    4,078    5,209            n.a.        n.a.      7,744    7,209        n.a.        n.a.
1969   7,822    2,146    9,968          1,281    4,448    5,729            n.a.        n.a.      9,103    6,594        n.a.        n.a.
1970   8,620    1,781   10,401          1,479    4,413    5,892            n.a.        n.a.     10,099    6,194        n.a.        n.a.
1971   9,681     1,296   10,977         1,781    4,347    6,128            n.a.        n.a.     11,462    5,643        n.a.        n.a.
1972  10,493    1,014   11,507          2,288    3,891    6,179            n.a.        n.a.     12,781    4,905        n.a.        n.a.
1973  11,065    1,008   12,073          2,560    4,039    6,599            n.a.        n.a.     13,625    5,047        n.a.        n.a.
1974  11,750        747   12,497        3,025    3,986    7,011            n.a.        n.a.     14,775    4,733        n.a.        n.a.
1975  11,840       818   12,658         3,396    4,043    7,439          14,742      22,181    15,236    4,861       14,742      34,839
1976  11,968        752   12,720        4,276    4,601    8,877          13,373      22,250    16,244    5,353       13,373      34,970
/a  Roads which receive the normal allocation of maintenance funds.
/b  Roads which receive only "minimum maintenance;" (that is, with only about 25% of the normal allocation of maintenance
funds and are often not passable in rainy weather) or are under construction or improvement.
/c  Lengths not available (n.a.) before 1975; length of unimproved (provincial) roads in 1963 believed to have been about
5,800 km.
Source: Department of Highways and consultants.
January 1978



TABLE 4
TEA IIAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registration, 1966-75
Motorcycles
Year          Cars         Buses         Trucks         and Others             Total
(Thousand IJnits)
Thai land
1966          97.1          18.5          78.6             178.4               372.6
1970         221.8          18.7         135.7             361.4               737.6
1971         2-15.0         18.3         147.2             389.2               789.7
1972         24.0.1         20.2         159.1             413.9              833.3
1973         250.7          21.6         179.4             435.3               887.0
1974         3C0.9          22.7         232.4             489.9            1,045,9
1975         290.4          22.7         238.1             510.0            1,061.2
1976 (est.)  307.2          24.0         269.5             545.7             1,146.4
Bangkok and Thonburi
1966          75.9           3.1          27.6              50.1               156.7
1970         173.2           4.8          43.5              83.6               305.1
1971         182.9           4.9          43.7              89.3               320.8
1972         183.1           6.3          43.3              87.9              320.6
1973         18'5.2          6.4          44.2              86.6              322.4
1974         232.3           6.3          61.8              90.5               390.8
1975         217.9           6.9          42.5             100.3              367.6
1976 (est.)  229.0           7.5          43.5             103.8              383.8
Average Annual Growth Rates
(%)
Bangkok            Thailand excluding
Thailand             and Thonburi         3angkok and Thonburi
1966/70   1970/75      1966/70   1970/75         1966/70   1970/75
Cars                22.9        5.8        22.8        5.2           23.1        6.0
Buses                0.3       4.1         13.2        8.1           -2.5        2.7
Trucks              14.7       12.3         12.4       2.1           16.5       16.4
other               19.6        7.1        14.0        3.8           24.6      22.4
Average             20.0       19.0         14.0      18.0           25.0       19.0
Annual Averaze Growth Rate of Motor Vehicle Fleet, bv Re2ion
M( )
Motor Vehicles
All Motor          Motorcycles        other than Motor-
Vehicles          and Tricvcles    cvcles and Tricvcles
Region                   1966/70  1970/75   1966/70  1970/75        1966/70  1970/75
Thailand                   18.7       9.2      22.2       7.9         17.6     10.a
NIorthern Region           18.6      13.6      22.4      13.5         12.1     13.3
Northeastern Region        18.9       8.9      21.3       2.0         17.3     15.2
iouthern Region            17.5       8.8      20.2       8.9         11.3      9.3
Central Region a/          20.4      11.7      25.6       9.9         15.3     14.0
3angkok and Thonbturi      18.1       6.7       13.1      1.7         20.1      3.3
a/ Excludes Bangicok and Thonburi
Sources:  Licenses Division, Police Depart3ent, Februarv 1977
January 1916



TABLE 5
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels, 1965-76 a/
Year          Gasoline         Increase         Gas-oil         Increase
(g Million)         (%) (M Million)                  (%)
1965              622             -                931             -
1966              678            9.0             1,191           28.0
1967              785           16.0             1,464           23.0
1968              922           17.0             1,755           20.0
1969            1,044           13.0             2,016           15.0
1970            1,159           11.0             2,214           10.0
1971            1,240            7.0             2,462           11.3
1972            1,353            9.1             2,683            9.0
1973            1,563           15.5             2,920            8.8
1974            1,598            2.2             2,703           -7.4
1975            1,773           10.9             2,873            6.3
1976 (est.)    1,940             9.4             2,994            4.2
Average Annual Increase
(%)
1965-1970                       13.0                             19.0
1971-1975                        9.4                              4.2
a/ The figures represent total consumption of gasoline and gas-oil.
Consumption on roads is not recorded separately. Road motor
vehicles consume about 95% of all gasoline. The road portion
of total gas-oil consumption is about 60%.
Source: Shell Company of Thailand, Ltd.
January 1978



TABLE 6
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Revenues from Road User Taxes, 1975 and 1976
(U Million)
Customs     Business &   Vehicle
Duty or     Municipal    Registra-
Item               Excise Tax       Tax        tion Fees       Total
1975  1976   1975  1976   1975  1976   1975  1976
Motor Fuel a/         2,661 2,900    531   580        -     -   3,192 3,480
Vehicles, Parts
and Accessories
(excluding cars)      1,906 2,080    873   950    680   740  3,459 3,770
Tires                     21    23       7     8      -     -       28    31
Total       4,588 5,003  1,411 1,538    680   740  6,679 7,281
Note: 1976 figures are estimates
a/  Includes both gasoline and diesel oil.
Sources: Customs and Excise Departments, Police Department
and Mission Estimates, February 1977
JTanwarv 1-978



TABLE 7
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Department of Highways
Expenditures and Sources of Finance, 1967-77
( Million)
Administration b/   Maintenance             Construction
Fiscal       Government          Government    Government  Foreign Loans
Year a/         Budget             Budget         Budget    and Assistance   Total
1967              404                234           1,575          498          2,711
1968              465                296           1,551          390          2,702
1969              506                328           1,626          403          2,863
1970              529                365           1,752          370          3,016
1971              626                350           2,038          289          3,303
1972              609                304           1,578          219          2,710
1973              628                310           1,766          416          3,120
1974              801                341           1,866           66          3,074
1975              708                454           2,140           45          3,347
1976              957                573           3,042          100          4,672
1977 ci         1,044                627           3,206          194          5,071
a/ October 1 - September 30.
b/ Includes the costs of: (a) mechanical equipment repair and its partial
replacement, which are not apportioned to maintenance and construction
works; and (b) special highway police patrols.
c/ Budget allocation.
Source: Department of Highways.
January 1978



,ABLE d
ThA S1-ANID
SIXTH H4CHWAr (?ROT4CtAL ROAOS) F9OJECT
Dest.n Standards for N7tinnal 4izh.va and Provinci.l Road.
1   3ridge Sidotl  5ecrwn ukrbs):               9   a an National High-Ts CLaSAes  5(D). 9(1). SID) end S(1)
8   on Nacio.al Hj,vwaayn  Classes  (25) and P(3) and on Proin.ci.l Ro.d. Classes F(l) and Ff2)
7 a on Prvtnct-Il Roads Classes F(S) to F(6)
2.   artical Clearance-                          .. 50 m
3   D.s4 g,ai  Lid  p9venno                     20.300  lb (24.000 lb in  angkok area)
-   O-isn  3ridg. Loading:                       '  20
j    'aomtrtc DSsign itandards A1
Terrain
Flat and Mod.r-    Rolling and
:~a v  a1--  ',acds                                   Unit       atalY  Rolling           Hilly          7oucaino.s
asi-.n Sreed                                      Icn/h         SO-IOO               60-80              50-50 b/
'av::-4v.- e tevt                                n6                                                   8 b/
60-30                60-30             60-80
'4tinal . ecn-dry, and
Pr-, :ncal F.       =1 F     2) and F(3)
D3siln 6Paad                                      'on/h         70-90                 55-70            t0-55 b/
MXjil    Cradient                                               S                     S                 10 b/
RIghe-o-.vy                                       a             40-62                 40-60            40-6O
c)  ?r-avtntil '-!    :'S  and (p65
Desjgn Speed                                      R=/h          60-30                 45-60             30-45 b/
y'Aounn.0,  radanct                                            S                     10                12 b/
Ritg-af-Say                                      a             20-40                 20-40             20-40
6.  Road.ay Feacures:
(a)  Nat!ral .    r:-I  X                              Class          P(D)                                   ?P21                ?(3)
Equlvelenc Daily 7raffic  (asdt) a                N 7h.=ber     aJV. 8.000           4,000-8.000       2.000-4.000        baLon 2,000
Svr ace Typ-                                                    btsigh               high               inctrradita        I t.r.d lac
width of CarriasgoYa                                            divided 2x7.00 d/ 7.00                  6.50               6i00
Width of Sho.1der b/                                            2.50                  2.50              2.25               2 00
Width of Roadbed  / '                                           varies               12.00             11.00              10.20
(b)  N.atuonal  'Secondarv)                            Class          S(5                   ^L               S(2)               5;2)               5(4S            So)
-qvv.l-ec Daily  raffl.c (aSt)  /                Yubr          above 5,000          4,000-d000        2,000-4,000         Id000-2 000        300-1.000      Selo-  300
5cr4se* Typ* i/                                                 htgS                hSigh               interdiatsa        inrerodi.tce       Id.
Wldth  f i rru.geuay                              a             divIded 2x7 00 d/ 7 20                 6.50                6.00               S 5.0          (l.,icdng
width or Sho.lder b/                              =             2.50                  250               2. 25              2 0                1.75           shoulders)
0tdch of Rnodbed b/                               a             varies               12.00             11 00              10. 00              0.0            9.00
/c)   ?roteoxlmL                                        Class         L                    F(11              F12)                F(i                A4  !/         '') I.d  -S)
Squivelent  aily Traffic (aSt) a/                 76.Db-r       above  ,             4.0OO-8.000       2.000-4,000         1,000-2.000       300-1000  above 300 belov  300
S.r4acn  hyp  c/                                                 16gh                high               interIedtace       interrdlataa      low                 grvel
4Wdth of Carriag.*y                               a             dtivdad 2x7.00 d/ 7 00                  6.50               6.00               5. 50            inchlsdg
S.lth of Sho.lder b/                              D             2.50                  2.50              2.25               2.00               1.75            sno.idar.)
Width if Roadbed b/                               a             varies               12.00             11.30              10.00               9 00           9 00         6.00
*I Coonetrtc standards nar,ally based on 15-year traffic projection.
_/  Daig. speed and widthS  say be reduead and gradients Iocrissad. in ecceptrtial cirn,*tAncaa.
c/  ?*vftemt deaig  nor.ily based on 7-year traific proje.tion of  qe.ivalent 200,00 lb ..L Iod.
d/  inicially conacrucced with to I-anes unles  tmdiaste  cooacruci on of for la.e.  is econo.miclly JatSifiad.
a/  Claas F(4) is for road.  ith projected  aadr abov  300 after 7 years.
Searce:   Depaentnt of Highways
January 197b



TABLE 9
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Maintenance of National Highways and Provincial Roads
Estimated Costs 1979-86 /a
(B million)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Recurrent costs
(including equipment
operation, repair,
and replacements,
predominantly used
on routine maintenance)
(i) Routine maintenance
(predominantly by
force account)            689      713    737    761    783    805    826    845
(ii) Periodic maintenance
(predominantly by
contract)                 453      466    480    495    510    525    541    557
Total              1,142/b 1,179  1,217  1,256  1,293  1,330  1,367  1,402
/a Estimated budgetary requirements at constant (estimated 1979) prices,
excluding costs of administration and of special highway police patrols.
/b Excluding capital cost of new equipment (about B 449 million) which is
to be substantially financed from the Loan.
Source: Consultants' Estimates
January 1978



TABLE 10
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Project
% Foreign
Length          Baht (million)                  US$ (million) /a             exchange
Item                                          (km)      Local    Foreign    Total    Local         Foreign    Total        component
A.  Construction and Improvement of
Provincial Roads
1.  Nakhon Sawan - Phitsanulok             124        207        170        377      10.16        8.32      18.48
2.  Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot            76        124        101        225       6.07        4.96      11.03
3.  Ban Bung-Klaeng                         88        164        134        298       8.04        6.57      14.61
4.  Ban Bung-Ban Kbai                       66         85         69        154       4.15        3.40       7.55
5.  Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri              74        260        213        473      12.75       10.44      23.19
6.  Ban Sali-Ayutthaya                      37        147        120        267       7.20        5.89      13.09
7.  Sam Khok-Sena                           30        130        107        237       6.39        5.23      11.62
8.  Bo Phloi-U Thong                        39         38         32         70       1.89        1.54       3.43
9.  Bo Phloi-Dan Chang                      78         62         50        112       3.02        2.47       5.49
10.  Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha                   23         53         44         97       2.61        2.14       4.75
11.  Hat Yai-Chana                           36         70         57        127       3.42        2.80       6.22
Subtotal A                          671      1.340      1,097      2,437      65.70       53.76      119.46         45
B.  Supervision of A                                       95         78        173       4.69         3.83       8.52         45
C.  Maintenance Equipment                                  90        359        449       4.40        17.60      22.00         80
D.  Studies and Engineeringl
1.  Provincial roads (and
possibly a small number
of national roads),
total about 1,500 km                            56         46         102      2.75         2.25       5.00         45
2.  Rural roads                                         2          7          9       0.09        0.35       0.44          80
3.  Inland waterways                                    3         14         17       0.12        0.70       0.82          85
4.  Coastal ports                                       1          5          6       0.05        0.25       0.30          85
Subtotal D                                      62         72        134       3.01        3.55        6.56         54
E.  Techniical Assistance and Training
1.  Department of Highways                              2          8         10       0.10        0.40       0.50
2.  Ministry of Communications                          2          8         10       0.10        0.40       0.50
Subtotal E                                       4         16          20      0.20         0.80       1.00         80
F.  Contingency Allowances
1.  EPhysical /b                                      159        162        321       7.80        7.95      15.75
2.  Frice /c                                          312        280        592      15.27       13.73      29.00
Subtotal F                                     471        442        913      23.07        21.68      44.75
Total cost of worlks                         2.062      2.064      4,126    101.07        101.22    202.29
G.  Right-of-Way                                           90           -         90       4.40         -         4.40
Total cost of pro ect                        2,152      2.064      4.216    105.47        101.22    206.69          49
/a  At current exchange rate of US$1.00 - Baht 20.4.
/b  10% oni all items.
/c  At assumed annual rates of 9% in 1977-79 and 8% in 1980-82.
Sources: Bid prices received September 1977 on seven roads (Items A. 1-4, and 9-11).
Estimates by Department of Highways and consultants for remainder of the project.
January 1978



TABLE 11
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Project Item (Executing Agency)                         Implementation
Start            Complete
Part A.  Roads Construction and Improvement (Department of Highways)
1.  Prequalification of Contractors.              Mar. 3, '77      June 2:3, '77
2.  Send out invitations to prequali-
fied contractors to bid on seven
roads; that is, excluding the
three roads: Bang Bua Thong-Su-
phan Buri, Ban Sali-Ayutthaya,
and Sam Khok-Sena.                                             June 24, '77
3.  Receive and open bids on seven project
roads.                                        Aug. 19, '77    Sept. 2, '77
4.  Evaluation of bids by consultants
and receipt by Bank of report of
consultants on bids on seven roads,
with Government recommendations.                               Sept. 15, '77
5.  Appoint consultants for supervision
of construction and award contracts
for construction of seven roads.                               Feb. 28, '78
6.  Invite bids for remaining four project
roads.                                                         Mar. 31, '78
7.  Receive bids on four project roads.                            Apr. 30, '78
8.  Evaluation of bids and receipt by the
Bank of consultants' report on bids
on four roads with Government recommen-
dations.                                                       May 20, '78
9.  Appoint consultants for supervision of
construction and award contracts for
construction of the four project roads.                        June L5, '78
10. Complete construction of eleven project
roads (and the Link Road - Bang Bua Thong-
Taling Chan-Bangkok Noi):



TABLE 11
Page 2
Project Item (Executing Agency)                           Implementation
Start            Complete
(i) Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok                   Mar. 1, '78       Dec. 31, '81
(ii) Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot               Mar. 1, '78       Mar. 1, '81
(iii) Ban Bung-Klaeng                             Mar. 1, '78      Mar. 1, '81
(iv) Ban Bung-Ban Khai                          Mar. 1, '78       Dec. 31, '80
(v) Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri                 July 31, '78    July 1, '82
(vi) Ban Sali-Auytthaya                         July 31, '78    Dec. 31, '81
(vii) Sam Khok-Sena                               July 31, '78    Dec. 31, '81
(viii) Bo Phloi-U Thong                           Mlar. 1, '78       Dec. 31, '80
(ix) Bo Phloi-Dan Chang                         Mar. 1, '78       Dec. 31, '80
(x) Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha                      Mar. 1, '78       Dec. 31, '80
(xi) Hat Yai-Chana                              Mar. 1, '78       Dec. 31, '80
Part B.  Eight-Year Program of Road Maintenance for National Highway and
Provincial Road Systems (Department of Highways)
1.  Prepare bid documents for Maintenance
and Workshop Equipment in agreement
with the Bank.                                                   Nov. 30, '77
2.  Advertise internationally inviting poten-
tial bidders to apply for bid documents
for Equipment and Spare Parts.                                   Jan. 31, '77
3.  Invite and receive bids for Equipment
and Spare Parts.                               Mar. 31, '78    June 15, '78
4.  Evaluate bids and receipt by the Bank
of report of consultants on bids, with
Government's recommendations.                                    Aug. 31, '78
5.  Award contracts for supply of Equipment
and Spare Parts.                                                 Sept. 30, '78
6.  Complete delivery of Equipment and Spare
Parts.                                                           Sept. 30, '79
7.  Invite and receive proposals from consul-
tants for te,chnical assistance for imple-
mentation of the Eight-Year Maintenance
Program, incLuding setting up and initial
operation of a Revolving Fund for the
procurement, maintenance and replacement
of maintenance equipment and spare parts.  Sept. 30, '77   Nov. 30, '77



TABLE 1_
Page 3
Project Item (Executing Agency)                          Implementation
Start            Complete
8. Evaluate proposals received, and send
report and recommendations, with copies
of proposals received, to the Bank for
comment.                                                         Jan. 15, '78
9. Award contract to consultants to provide
technical assistance for a two year
period for the Maintenance Program.                              Feb. 28, '78
10. Provision by consultants of technical
assistance for preparing for introduction
of Revolving Fund and for start of Main-
tenance Program.                               Feb. 28, '78    Oct. 1, '79
11. Provision of technical assistance by
consultants for initial operation of
Revolving Fund and initial period of
iMaintenance Program.                          Oct. 1, '79       Mar. 31, '80
12. Prepare estimates and a detailed program
for periodic maintenance, for the first
year October 1, 1978-September 30, 1979
of the 8-Year Road Maintenance Program         Jan. 1, '78       June 30, '78
13. Prepare standard specifications and bid
documents for all main types of periodic
maintenance works.                             April 1, '78    June 30, '78
14. Complete preparation of bid documents
for the first group of periodic mainten-
ance contracts and issue bid invitations.                        Sept. 1, '78
15. Obtain bids and award contracts for first
group of periodic maintenance contracts.   Oct. 1, '78          Nov. 1, '78
16. Obtain bids for subsequent groups of
periodic maintenance contracts and carry
out first year's program of routine and
periodic maintenance of the 8-Year
Road Maintenance Program.                      Oct. 1, '78      Sept. 30, '79
17.  Set up the Revolving Fund, including
issuing all necessary administrative,
financial and operating instructions.                           Oct.. 1, '79
18. Carry out subsequent annual routine and
periodic maintenance programs of the
8-Year Program.                                Oct. 1, '79      Sept. 30, '86



TABLE 11
Page 4
Project Itemt (Executing Agency)                        Implementation
Start            Complete
Part C.  Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of about 1,500 km of Roads
(Department of Highways)
1.  Dr,ft terms of reference in
agreement with the Bank.                                       Oct. 31, '77
2. Invite and receive proposals from
consultants.                                  Jan. 31, '78    Mar. 31, '78
3. Evaluation of proposals by Government
and receipt by the Bank of recommenda-
tions.                                                         May 31, '78
4. Negotiate with selected consultants
and award contract for Feasibility
Studies.                                                       Aug. 31, '78
5.  Feasibility Study Phase 1 (Review
of National and Provincial Road Systems).  Sept. 30, '78   Mar. 31, '79
6. Review by Government of consultants'
report on Phase 1 and agreement with
Bank on roads to be studied in Phase 2.                        May 31, '79
7. Carry out Phase 2 of Feasibility Study
and complete interim and draft final
reports.                                      June 30, '79    June 30, '80
8. Review by Government and Bank of
consultants' Draft Final Report on
Feasibility Study and agreement with
the Bank on selection of roads for
Detailed Engineering.                                          Aug. 31, '80
9. Negotiate with consultants and award
contract for Detailed Engineering.                             Oct. 31, '80
10. Carry out Detailed Engineering (by
consultants).                                 Nov. 30, '80    Nov. 30, '81
Part ]).l(i) Study of Rural Roads (to be designated)
1. Decision by Government on executing
Ministry, Department or other agency.                          Mar. 31, '78
2. Draft terms of reference in agreement
with the Bank.                                                 April 30, '78



TABLE 11
Page 5
Project Item (Executing Agency)                         Implementation
Start            Complete
3. Invite and receive proposals from
consultants.                                  May 31, '78      July 31, '78
4. Evaluation of proposals by Government
and receipt by Bank of recommendations.                        Sept., 30, '78
5. Negotiate with selected consultants and
award contract.                                                Dec. 15, '78
6.  Carry out Rural Road Study.                   Mar. 1, '79      Mar. 1, '80
Part D.1(ii) Study of Road User Charges (Ministry of Communications/TPU)
1. Draft terms of reference in agreement
with the Bank.                                                 Sept. 1, '78
2. Invite and receive proposals from
consultants.                                  Oct. 1, '78      Dec. 31, '78
3. Evaluation of proposals by Government
and receipt by Bank of recommendations.                        Jan. 31, '79
4. Negotiate with selected consultants and
award contract.                                                Mar. 31, '79
5.  Carry out Study.                              June 1, '79      Nov. 30, '80
Part D.2(i) Study of Inland Waterways (Harbours Department)
1.  Draft terms of reference in agreement
with Bank.                                                     Dec. 15, '77
2. Invite and receive proposals from consul-
tants.                                        Feb. 1, '78      Mar. 31, '78
3. Evaluation of proposals by Government
and receipt by Bank of recommendations.                        April 30, '78
4.  Negotiate with selected consultants and
award contract.                                                June 30, '78
5.  Carry out Study.                              Aug. 1, '78       July 31, '79
Part D.2(ii) Coastal Ports Study (Harbours Department)
1. Draft terms of reference in agreement
with Bank.                                                     Dec. 15, '77



TABLE 11
Page 6
Project Item (Executing Agency)                          Implementation
Start            Complete
2. Invite and receive proposals from consul-
tants.                                         Feb. 1, '78      Mar. 31, '78
3. Evaluation of proposals by Government
and receipt by Bank of recommendations.                         April 30, '78
4.  Negotiate with selected consultants and
award contract.                                                 June 30, '78
5.  Carry out Study.                               Aug. 1, '78      Sept.30, '79
Parts E.1 and E.3 Technical Assistance and Training for the
Department of Highways (Department of Highways)
1. Training by consultants of DOH Staff in
highway maintenance.                           Feb. 28, '78    Mar. 31, '80
2. Selection of first group of members of
staff of Department of Highways for
overseas training.                             Jan. 31, '77    Mar. 31, '78
3.  Courses of training for first group.           Sept. 30, '78   June 30, '80
4. Selection of second group of staff of
Department of Highways.                                         Jan. 31, '80
5.  Courses of training for second group.          Sept. 30, '80   June 30, '82
Parts E.2 and E.3 Technical Assistance and Training for the
Transport Planning Unit Ministry of Communications
(Ministry of Communications)
1. Draft terms of reference in agreement
with Bank.                                                      Nov. 30, '77
2. Invite and receive proposals from
consultants for technical assistance
and training.                                 Dec. 31, '77    Jan. 31, '78
3.  Negotiate contact with consultants.                             Mar. 31, '78
4.  Provision of technical assistance and
training by consultants to TPU.               Apr. 30, '78    Apr. 30, '80
5.  Selection of first group of members of
staff of TPU for overseas training.           Jan. 31, '78    Mar. 31, '78



TABLE 11
Page 7
Project Item (Executing Agency)                          Implementation
Start            Complete
6.  Courses of training for first group.           Sept. 30, '78   June 30, '80
7. Selection of second group of staff
of TPU.                                                         Mar. 31, '79
8.  Courses of training for second group.          Sept. 30, '79   Mar. 31, '81
January 1978



TABLE 12
THAILAND
SIXTH hIIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative disbursements
IBRD fiscal year                                                 at end of quarter
and quarter                                                        (US$'000)
1977/78
March :31, 1978                                                        1,000
June 30, 1978                                                         5,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                                   10,000
December 31, 1978                                                    15,000
March 311, 1979                                                      21,000
June 30, 1979                                                        27,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                                   37,000
December 31, 1979                                                    48,000
March 31, 1980                                                       58,000
June 30, 1980                                                        64,000
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                                   71,000
December 31, 1980                                                    78,000
March 31, 1981                                                       84,000
June 30, 1981                                                        88,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                                   92,000
December 31, 1981                                                    96,000
March 31, 1982                                                      100,000
June 30, 1982                                                       104,000
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                                  108,000
December 31, 1982                                                   110,000
Source: Government/Bank estimates.
January 1978



TABLE 13
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Estimated Economic Cost of Vehicle Operation
(Baht per Km)
Speed                    Car                       4-Wheel Drive
(Km per Hour)      Bitumen  Gravel  Earth          Bitumen  Gravel  Earth
10             1.10      1.27    1.71          5.37      6.60    8.53
24             1.04      1.20    1.59          3.38      3.94    5.23
40             1.02      1.18    1.50          2.54      3.01    3.82
56             1.03      1.20    1.46          2.18      2.60    3.14
72             1.07      1.25     -            2.01      2.43     -
88             1.13       -       -            1.97       -       -
Light Truck                    Medium Truck
10             1.87      2.30    2.99          4.47      5.42    6.99
24             1.25      1.48    1.97          2.79      3.50    4.67
40             0.99      1.19    1.53          2.15      2.75    3.66
56             0.90      1.09    1.34          1.91      2.50    3.11
72             0.88      1.08     -            1.90      2.51     -
88             0.91       -       -            1.98       -       -
Heavy Truck                    Light Bus
10             5.19      6.30    8.14          1.76      2.16    2.81
24             3.25      4.08    5.47          1.19      1.41    1.87
40             2.53      3.23    4.32          0.95      1.14    1.47
56             2.26      2.95    3.69          0.87      1.05    1.30
72             2.25      2.98     -            0.85      1.05     -
88             2.35       -       -            0.89       -       -
Heavy Bus                     Semi-Trailer
10             6.89      8.25   10.57          7.33      8.95   11.63
24             4.22      5.24    6.97          4.58      5.79    7.79
40             3.23      4.07    5.43          3.56      4.59    6.13
56             2.82      3.64    4.54          3.20      4.21    5.23
72             2.75      3.58     -            3.21      4.29     -
88             2.79       -       -            3.39       -       -
Source: Consultants - Vallentine, Laurie & Davies, Standardization
of Vehicle Operating Costs for Thailand, January 1977,
Bangkok, Thailand
January 1978



THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Traffic and Economic Data
Annual average daily
traffic volume               No variation                             Benefits      Both costs increased
Existing           Opening          in estimated       Costs increased    decreased   and benefits decreased
Names of roads                        Length        in 1975              year       costs and benefits   by 10 percent   by 10 percent            by 10 percent
1.  Nakhon Sawan-Phitsanulok           124        110-340      900-2,200 (1981)            33                   31               30                   28
2.  Ban Chai Badan-Dan Khun Thot        76       (330-450)        400-740 (1982)           32                   30               30                   28
3.  Ban Bung-Klaeng                     88      335-3,600*  3,300-8,400 (1982)             56                   53               52                    49
4.  Ban Bung-Ban Khai                   66      150-1,000*  1,000-2,600 (1983)             16                   15               15                    13
5.  Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri          74          (2,200)         5,900 (1982)           30                   28               28                    27
6.  Ban Sali-Ayuthaya                   37          (1,000)         2,700 (1983)           23                   21               21                   20
7.  Sam Khok-Sena                       30          (1,300)         3,600 (1983)           27                   25               25                   23
8.  Bo Phloi-U Thong                    39             300          1,300 (1982)           47                   44               44                   41
9.  Bo Phloi-Dan Chang                  78         70-310         280-820 (1982)           29                   27               26                    24
10.  Had Yai-Sam Yak Khuha               23          (1,000)         2,200 (1981)           26                   25               24                    23
11.  Had Yai-Chana                       36            (500)         1,400 (1982)           20                    18              18                    17
Note:  The traffic figures in parentheses are the theoretical volumes of traffic that would have used the roads if they existed in 1975.  The
traffic figures with asterisks are for the year 1973.
January 1978
H3
0:



THAILAND: SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DR ECTOR ER..DNN.E.AL.
DE~PUTYDIRECTOR GENERAL FOR A-MINISFRATION                                                                                                              UEFUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR ENGINEERIU
OFFICE         _         FINANC                  PROCUREMENT        _     HEALRH ERVICES                 LEGAL                   RIGHT G. RAV                PERSONNEL                     PLANNING             LOCATION ANU  DESIGN             MATERIALS                  TRAINING
GF TRE SECRETART             DIVISION mOISION                                     DIVISION                                              DIV1510N DIVISION          DIVISION IS_ION                                                                    DIVISION                    DIISION
ADMINISTRATIVESECTIDN      BURGETING SERVICE       -.DCUREMENTCUORDINA.       ADMINIETRATIVE SECTION        LEGAL SERVICES            LANG EVALUATION         ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION        ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION    ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION     ADMINIETRATIVE SE.TIUN      TRAINING PRGAMS AND
RECORDS MANAGEMENT         SECTION                  TING                      CENTRAL MEDICAL                                         NEGOTIATION AND         PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT          TRAFFIC SECTION           GURVTY SECTION             TECHNICAL SECTION           SYLLARUSES SECTION
SECTION                    PROJECT ACCOUNTING       DUALITY CONTROL           SERVICE SECTION                                         ACOGISITIUN             SECTION                       MAPPING SECTION           HIGHW.AT DESIGN SECTION    MATERIALS TESTING           TRAINING MGNUALG AND
SECTION                 SECTION                   FIELD MEDICAL SERVICE                                    LAN RRECORDS           MANPOWER ANALTRIS             STATISTICS SECTION        SRIDGE & STRUCTURAL         SECTION                    EOUIPMENT SECTION
MAINTENANCE             FASCRARNG UECTION         SECTION                                                                         `ERSONNEL RECORD              PROGRAM ANALTOIS          DESIGN                      F...N.TUN SECTION          SEPRODUCT'ON SERVICE
ACCOUNTING SECTION      CONTRACTS SECTION         PHARMACE-TICAL                                                                  SECTIO                          IT..G              SSECTON                             IONALT SIRO                      SCE  ERVIC
CASH MANAGEMENT         INVENT-Y CONTROL          EECTION                                                                                                                                                             CH-MISTRY SECTION          SECTION
SECTION                 SECTION                   DENTAL SECTION                                                                                                                                                     GEALDG        ECTION        L-A-
=$3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RNAC SETO   LIN*RASTPUYOIE RTON 
UCNLOGY SECTION
H- ENECNEER                                FIELOOIVISIS
NACRON  PRAUSGAP                                                                                                              UGEDON~~ON  -T.TIO
SI TRAMMARAT  CR151 ERAS  RANGOC         DIVISIOENG GAO          S.CTO LDERI  PITISINL          DIVCISIGOMN           -NST-GE   N IVSITONAIA            CR   AS
SECTION                    FIEL D3VISVR                                                                      T T          NJ FIELD DIVIEIONS
SONGEALD  NACRON SI                                            COGOSOC-AN         LOP SARI         PRI-ANUOLGE       C-ANG MA            P-FRE           S~ATCHASIMA I       -0T -EDE             ANONL DVSIN
N XALA     |        8 TRANG  |       H RANDNG      UTG AYUOATAG| p    COON EURI      |      p COAI NAT j    G SUKHOTHAI  |     K LAMPANG        PTA TAO           SAN FOAl    U     DON THAGNI    |        SARESAAM   C| 6 FIELD DISTRICT5S
PAEANI            ESAR        4  RATCHAEU=I          NANPONG           CRANA             LAMNRI               FOEk 3     4   LAMPHUN           UTTARORCT                                              YAYAH OE DIN
SARI4   sl SA KE
SO.NCIE a Fl"'O.noP HS1AR                                                                                            TA               T   TON            GAWAS                                 SAN              S






R,10'     9                                                   104'                       -
I;; ~~~ '                                                                                                        0<o  SNe      b3q{  h      /   
BURDMA
1-S1 X,  SX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,1
ff ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I f                                                    -                                                    T'ILN       X U,0fSu}f 8o     *S0
'S        54.0                            LAO PEOPLE S DEMOCRATI REPUBLIC                OW      I         AO A
- ; 0 J gS S , tLompa              *     4<                 0AO                   R=     J                                M:LAYSI
a"  )   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI                                                                 SINGAPORtE
,   .  ,=  -4,1  //?p4"55WIID   0   a    =   )\                                                1
f   THAILAND
NATI.u t oALJIGHWAY AND
PROVINCIAL ROAD NETWORKS
lb   X3    ,/  ba             0                              0     0       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EXISTING 4NATIESNAL HI5GHWAYSO     h
- - - -  EIATIONA PBAVWYS UNDERCONSTRUCTION OR PROPOSED
JW   r g   0  PROJECT ROADS R-ND IMPROVEMNR |rd Pro,ect 43STH
{f darlo ,0h ><bd ......... ....... ~~~~~~~STUtDY AND ENGINEERPiRAS    t E~lfhPrltor RtB7RTAH
COANSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT  hSlj,h ProIll
Td/x  X.  n -O                ra  a         . E    PU       A    0 ENG ,E I       2-0h
RILOMETER
PhgSh, / 7;y5  NkJSTt-Hg  RWERS
k BB.-                                   AIRM~~~~-rOt
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITERNn'C AT  - eKIOALSOMIDARlE5
f iCa  rJ UH,,,, X, i,,           1e
-'<'< J  - .A  t 1    ; - rathlwat         O      bO 50  TO             200          2RO
u   ,;>g  PawB t<>>1                        ~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
l                                       QD ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Oo  M A L A Y S I A                           ,00.                                      2



