Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-221 4-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
February 2, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -       Baht (B)
US$0.0490        -       B 1.00
US$1.00          -       B 20.40
US$49,020        -       B 1 million
SYSTEM OF 7JFIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                                   British/US
1 meter (m)                  -      3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             -      0.6214 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq m)   -       0.3861 square miles (sq m)
1 hectare (ha)               -      2.4710 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                  -      0.2759 US gallons (gal)
0.2207 British gallons (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)         -      1.1023 US short tons (sh ton)
0.9841 British long tons (lg ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARD      -      Office of Accelerated Rural Development
BCEOM    -      Bureau Central d'Etudes pour lef Equipement d'Outre Mer
Changwat -      Province
DOH      -      Department of Highways
HD       -      Harbor Department
KAMPSAX  -      Kampmann, Kierulff and Saxild A/S
MOC      -      Ministry of Communications
NESDB    -      National Economic and Social Development Board
PMWD     -      Public and Municipal Works Department
RID      -      Royal Irrigation Department
SMEC     -      Snowy Mountain Engineering Corporation
SRT      -      State Railway of Thailand
Tambon   -      Village Group
UNDP     -      United Nations Development Programme
VLD      -      Valentine, Laurie and Davis
FISCAL YEAR
THAILAND: October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Kingdom of Thailand
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Communications, Department of
Highways and Harbor Department
Amount:                $110 million
Terms:                 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.45% per annum.
Project Description:  The Project is designed to upgrade and expand the
provincial road system, help establish a program for
systematic maintenance of national and provincial
roads, and carry out studies of these networks, rural
roads, inland waterways and coastal ports for future
improvement. The project would include: (a) construc-
tion and improvement of 11 sections of provincial roads
totalling about 670 km under the supervision of foreign
and Thai consultants; (b) an eight-year program of main-
tenance of the national and provincial roads, including
provision of maintenance and workshop equipment; (c) com-
prehensive review by consultants of the national and
provincial roads to set priorities for improvement,
followed by feasibility studies of about 1,500 km of
mainly provincial roads as a basis for selecting about
1,200 km of these roads for detailed engineering;
(d) study by consultants to prepare an investment program
for rural roads in 8 selected provinces; (e) detailed
engineering and related economic analysis for improve-
ments to Chao Phya river waterway; (f) a study of about
20 coastal ports to prepare a development program for
selected ports; and (g) continuation of technical assis-
tance to (i) the Department of Highways, particularly,
for detailed planning and implementation of the road
maintenance program and specialist courses for the
Departments' staff; and (ii) the Transport Planning Unit
(Ministry of Communications) for specialized training of
staff and for executing a road user charges study.
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                        ------------   million -------------
Proiect Items                     Local   Foreign   Total   % of Foreign
Exchange
A.  Construction & improvement       65.70    53.76    119.46        45
of 11 provincial roads
B.  Maintenance and workshop
equipment                       4.40    17.60     22.00        80
C.  Consulting services
(a) Supervision of construc-
tion & improvement of
roads                        4.69     3.83      8.52        45
(b) Road studies & engineer-
ing                          2.84     2.60      5.44        47
(c)  Inland Waterways Study       0.12     0.70      0.82        85
(d)  Coastal Ports Study          0.05     0.25      0.30        85
(e) Technical assistance &
fellowships                  0.20     0.80      1.00        80
D. Contingencies:
Physical                     7.80     7.95      15.75
Price                       15.27    13.73      29.00
E.  Right of way                      4.40        -       4.40
Total Project Cost              105.47   101.22    206.69        49
Financing Plan                                                    % of Total
Government                     96.69     0.20      96.69       46.78
IBRD                            9.00   101.00    110.00        53.22
Total                     105.69   101.00    206.69       100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:   ----------------------  Million------------------…--
Bank FY 1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                       6.0    21.0    34.0    24.0    16.0      6.0
Cumulative                   6.0    27.0    64.0    88.0   104.0   110.0
Rate of Return:       The estimated economic rates of return for the indi-
vidual roads range between 16% to 56%, and 80% for the
Maintenance Program.
Appraisal Report:     No. 1692-TH dated January 26, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $110 million to help finance
the Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project. The loan would have the
standard terms of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.45%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Thailand" (1280A-TH, dated October 29, 1976) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1976 and to members of the
Consultative Group for Thailand in February 1977. A basic economic mission
visited Thailand in November 1977 and its preliminary findings have been
incorporated in the following paragraphs. Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political and Economic Development
3.        The Government of Prime Minister Thanin, which was installed follow-
ing the assumption of power by the National Administrative Reform Council
(NARC) in October 1976, lasted one year. On October 20, 1977, members of
the NARC, dissatisfied with the Thanin Government's domestic and foreign
policies and its 16-year timetable for restoring democratic processes, ousted
the Prime Minister and his cabinet. The NARC then reconstituted itself as
the National Policy Council, the highest political authority in the country.
An interim constitution was promulgated which required a general election to
be held in a year's time and the drafting of a new permanent constitution,
which has been initiated. In November, the National Policy Council appointed
General Kriangsak Chomanan as the new Prime Minister who then formed a
cabinet comprised mostly of civilians. The new government affirmed its
support of the objectives of the country's Fourth Five Year National Economic
and Social Development Plan (1977-81) and announced its intention to undertake
more aggressive development policies. Its principal concerns are alleviating
rural poverty, particularly in the Northeast, and improving relations with
neighboring socialist countries. In December, the first steps towards
normalizing relations with Laos and Viet Nam were taken.



-2-
4.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Rapid
growth of the agricultural and industrial sectors, which recorded average
annual growth rates in constant prices of 5% and 10%, respectively, enabled
real GDP to expand at an average rate of about 7.5% annually. The country
also achieved impressive investment and savings rates throughout this period.
Gross domestic capital formation ranged from 20% to 27% of GDP, with private
investment constituting two-thirds of total investment. The share of gross
domestic savings in GDP ranged from 19% to 24%. As a result, in no year did
the resource gap (import surplus needed to realize the levels of consumption
and investment achieved) exceed 5% of GDP, and was considerably less in most
years.
5.        During the international recession of 1974/75, the economy demon-
strated considerable resilience; it has now recovered from the deceleration
of growth which marked the second half of 1974. The growth rate of real GDP
rose from 4.6% in 1974 and 5.5% in 1975 to 6.3% in 1976, and between 6%-7%
estimated for 1977. In sharp contrast to the situation in 1973/74, when the
external sector and private investment provided the main impetus to growth,
the much-needed stimuli to demand in 1975 and 1976 came from the public
sector, with a strong expansion in export receipts reinforcing the growth of
domestic demand in the latter year.
6.        The balance of payments has deteriorated in recent years, however,
despite continued rapid rise in export earnings. Both 1975 and 1976 registered
much higher current account deficits than occurred in previous years ($600 mil-
lion in 1975 and $450 million in 1976 compared to $50 million in 1973 and
$90 million in 1974). A large part of these deficits was due to the decline
in Thailand's terms of trade by 24% between 1973 and 1976. The import price
index rose by 60% in 1974, mainly due to the hike in oil prices; however,
a substantial improvement in prices of most of the country's major exports
helped to limit the decline in the terms of trade in that year to less than
10%. In 1975 and 1976 there were moderate import price increases but stable
or falling export prices led to a further substantial fall in the terms of
trade. In 1977, despite an unprecedented high level of exports, the current
account deficit is estimated to be in excess of $900 million.
7.        As a consequence of the higher current account deficit and lower
net capital inflows, reserves, which had increased in 1974, declined by $195
million in 1975. Although there was some improvement in foreign direct
investment, total private inflows declined further in 1976. Capital inflows
to the public sector, on the other hand, increased substantially as the
Government's first borrowing from a syndicate of private banks of $100 mil-
lion was drawn down and project loans committed in 1974/75 began to be
disbursed. Taking into account an SDR 67 million loan under the .compensatory
financing scheme of the IMF, the overall balance of payments in 1976 recorded
a small surplus but is expected to show a deficit of about $300 million in
1977, to be financed mainly by drawing on reserves. The country's net reserves
in September 1977 amounted to $1.3 billion, equivalent to slightly over 3
months' imports, as compared to a reserve level of almost 6 months' imports
equivalent at the end of 1974.



-3-
8.        Thailand enjoyed a large measure of price stability in 1975 and
1976. Slower demand growth, stable export prices and a moderate increase in
import prices contained the rise in the consumer price index to 5.3% in 1975
and 4.2% in 1976, a sharp deceleration from an annual average increase of 20%
in 1973 and 1974. Inflation is increasing somewhat in 1977 with the rise in
the Consumer Price Index expected to be in the 8-9% range.
Development Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        The new Government's policy concerns and development strategies are
reflected in the Fourth Plan (1977-81). The Plan's principal objectives
include a growth target of 7%, equitable distribution of income, reduction in
the rate of population growth, faster generation of employment opportunities
and a balanced development of the different regions. Projected public sector
development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for the Plan period as
compared to an estimated level of $4.6 billion achieved over the Third Plan
(1972-76). Nevertheless, the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies
only in broad terms and concrete policy and programs to meet the Plan's
economic and social objectives remain to be defined. The Bank has therefore
recently begun an intensive program of economic studies to help Government
define a policy and investment framework for implementation of the Fourth
Plan. These studies as well as concurrent work under way within the Government
are focusing on problems of employment and income distribution and will help
to better define the policy issues involved.
10.       While these studies are progressing, preliminary findings indicate
that the Thai economy has many positive features which augur well for rapid
and broadly distributed growth. These include the sustained rapid rate of
economic growth over the past two decades; relatively equitable distribution
of rural land; responsiveness of Thai farmers to superior technology; extensive
provision of infrastructure by the Thai government; dynamism of the private
sector in both industry and agriculture; and finally, the major gains made in
family planning in recent years; from the high population growth of 3%
annually during 1960s, the rate of growth had slowed to 2.6% in 1976 and 2.5%
in end 1977. However, social and economic progress in the future is likely
to require a more active role on the part of the Government if the goals of
the Plan are to be achieved.
11.       Agriculture growth in the past has been based to a large extent on
expansion of cultivated areas. Prospect for further expansion of area is now
limited and future growth of the sector will have to be based mainly on more
intensive utilization of cultivated area, improvement in yields, continued
diversification of crops including, in some areas, different forms of cropping
patterns and farming practices, and availability of agricultural.credit; all
of these would require increased government assistance to the private rural
sector. Furthermore, a significant part of the rural population, particularly
in the north and northeast regions, has not fully participated from .he
recent growth in rural income, and special programs will have to be formulated
to accelerate income growth in these areas. In the past, public rural
investment has concentrated on the expansion of the irrigation network in the
central plain. A greater effort is now required to develop upland and other
rainfed areas through research, extension services and rural infrastructure
development.



-4-
Income levels of farmers in these areas are much lower than in the irrigated
areas and their increased productivity is necessary to ensure continued growth
of the agricultural sector as well as to improve the distribution of income.
12.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the impetus for future growth will have
to come increasingly from the industrial sector. Industry, construction
and services, will have to provide an increasing share of employment and
income opportunities for the growing population. Industrial policy and
programs should be designed to create jobs for the rapidly growing labor
force at increasing levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will be
required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok, and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports remains feasible, the large domestic rural sector also
offers opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment,
and processed agricultural products as well as on production for foreign
markets. The industrial sector has also developed to a stage where basic
industries such as steel and chemicals and harnessing of natural gas potential
could also contribute to future growth.
13.       A central development issue in Thailand today therefore is managing
the transition from an economy whose growth is based on the extension of land
under cultivation and import substitution industries to one based on increas-
ingly intensive use of land and industries producing for domestic and export
markets under competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be
necessary to ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparity
not widened during this period of transition.
14.       In the past, the Government's role has been confined largely to
short-term economic management, where it's performance has been good, and to
the provision of basic economic and social services. In order to achieve a
relatively smooth transition, the Government will have to undertake more
coordinated and longer-term actions. This implies that an integrated and
carefully planned program of reform of public institutions will have to be
implemented. Such a program should be carried out systematically and gradually
over a period of years and would need to include: (a) changes in the system
of personnel management; (b) improving the capacity of ministries to plan,
monitor and control activities of their respective departments; (c) greater
decentralization of decision-making to the provincial and local levels; and
(d) rationalization of the functions of, and coordination among, the central
government agencies responsible for planning, budgeting, staffing and economic
management.
15.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate of
economic and social progress will require a steady increase in public expendi-
tures over the next few years. Public expenditures have increased substanti-
ally in nominal terms since 1974, but these increases have merely restored
the share of the public sector in the country's expenditures to that prevailing
before 1973-74, when public spending declined in real terms as a result of
an anti-inflationary policy. A reasonably ambitious development program for
the next few years will therefore require much greater efforts to mobilize



-5-
both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government domestic
revenue as a percentage of GNP (13.4% in 1976) was low compared to other
developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax rates,
high exemptions and a somewhat below average rate of compliance. Improved
resource mobilization through increased taxation of property and income and
better collection efforts will make the tax system more progressive. Such
changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of foreign trade, partic-
ularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited agricultural growth.
16.       The deterioration in the country's terms of trade has raised substan-
tially the external capital flows needed for achieving a satisfactory rate of
growth. The financing of the tentative investment program of the Fourth Plan
is likely to require commitments of about $3-3.5 billion in project financing
and further public borrowing of $500-700 million through sources such as
Eurocurrency loans, suppliers' credits and industrial countries' export
financing facilities. This public sector borrowing program would raise the
public debt service ratio (service payments on public debt as a percentage of
exports) from 2.6% in 1975 to 4.7% in 1981. Although the service ratio for
total debt, which amounted to 13.4% in 1976, is projected to remain below 17%
throughout the Fourth Plan period, the unfavorable development of the country's
balance of payments since 1974 and the significantly larger role required of
the public sector to maintain growth in the future justify some concessionality
in the foreign financing of government projects. At their meeting of March 22
and 23, 1977, members of the Consultative Group considered these projected
amounts of external borrowing reasonable and supported the Government's
objective to seek a major part of such financing on concessional terms. It
therefore seems appropriate to include a limited amount of IDA credits in the
Bank Group's lending to Thailand. In addition, external agencies, including
the Bank Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated project lending
to Thailand in the agricultural and social sectors that have high social
benefits but low foreign exchange components. To achieve the higher level of
external resource transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected
projects when the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local
currency expenditure.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
41 loans amounting to $998.4 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($186.0 million), irrigation ($218.8 million)
and power ($216 million) with, in addition, one for a dual-purpose power and
irrigation project ($65.8 million).  The remaining loans have been for water
supply ($55 million), telecommunications ($63 million), education ($52.3 mil-
lion), industry ($38 million), rural development ($21 million), livestock
($5 million), rubber replanting ($50 million) and national agricultural
extension ($28 million), with the rural development and livestock loans
having been made on Third Window terms. One loan for an industrial estate
project ($4.75 million) has been signed but is not yet effective. In addition,
Thailand has received three IDA credits: $19.5 million for education and two
credits totalling $12.5 million for irrigation improvement. In general,



- 6 -
Bank-financed projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance
with expectations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of December 31, 1977, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Over the past year, loans have been approved for national agricul-
tural extension, irrigation, power and industrial development. In the current
two-year cycle, projects to support a broad range of agricultural development,
rural infrastructure, education, small- and medium-scale industries, popula-
tion and low-cost housing and neighborhood improvement would account for
about two thirds of the proposed program. Continued lending is also planned
for power, including rural electrification and natural gas development.
In transportation, the emphasis has shifted from major highways to provincial
and rural roads and improvement of inland waterways and coastal ports.
19.       The Bank continues to diversify its lending program in Thailand
with the objective of assisting the Government expand its effort to improve
the distribution of income as well as to maintain a rapid rate of growth;
increasingly, projects are selected and designed to spread development
benefits to the lower income groups and the more needy regions. One of the
main functions of the Bank's regional mission in Bangkok is to assist the
Government in developing projects to meet the above objectives.
20.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$309 million, as of December 31, 1976, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank's share in total debt
outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
21.       IFC has made two equity investments totaling $380,000 in Industrial
Finance Corporation of Thailand; two loans and an investment, totaling
$32.08 million, in the Siam Cement group; a loan of $300,000 to Concrete
Products; an equity investment of about $300,000 in Mutual Fund Company;
and, more recently, a loan of $2.5 million and an equity investment of
$200,000 in United Sugar Terminal Company. IFC has also completed the
appraisal of two projects; one for producing carbon black and another for
small and medium scale enterprises to be administered by a local commercial
bank. Prospects for other IFC operations are reasonably good; IFC has been
asked to arrange the debt financing of approximately $50 million for a $90 mil-
lion zinc mining and refinery project.  Other likely operations are the
development of privately sponsored industrial estates and two projects to
expand cement production.  At the Government's request, the Capital Markets
Department carried out a reorganization study of the Government Housing Bank,
which is currently being implemented by the latter institution.



-7-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
22.       The transportation sector in Thailand has registered an impressive
growth over the last 10 years to meet the needs of the economy. The pattern
of expansion has been dictated by the dominant position of Bangkok, Thailand's
principal port and center for business and administration. However, the
radial flow of goods and people between the capital and the rest of the
country has brought serious problems of traffic congestion in Bangkok city.
To improve the situation, some of the short-term measures recommended in a
recent Bangkok Urban Planning Study have been implemented and, after some
delay, the Government has begun serious planning for dispersal of industry out
of Bangkok, constructing a beltway and improving traffic management.
Transport Services
23.       Railway3.  The railway system has about 4,500 km of one meter guage
track; between 1972 and 1976, carload freight and passenger traffic grew
about 5% annually and in 1976, the system carried 2.6 billion ton-km and 5.8
billion pass-km respectively. Having operated unprofitably from 1974 to
1976, railway is regaining its advantage in long-haul freight transport and,
with Bank assistance (Fourth Railway Project, Loan 898-TH), has further
modernized its equipment and improved marketing services. A Fifth Railway
Project is being prepared to help further improve railway's operating and
financial performance.
24.       Inland Waterways.  The inland waterways comprise about 1,600 km of
interconnecting rivers and canals navigable in the wet season and about 1,100
km in the dry season. 93% of the traffic (mostly of sand, gravel and rice) is
southbound (to Bangkok) and only 7% northbound. Lack of year round navigabil-
ity, high cost of dredging and conflicting needs of water for increased
irrigation or power generation are the main limitations. A study of inland
waterways to identify areas for improvement was recently completed by
the French consultancy firm, BCEOM.
25.       Civil Aviation.  The civil aviation network centers on Bangkok's Don
Muang international airport which connects 20 other domestic airports in the
country. Don Muang airport handles over 1.5 million domestic and international
passengers annually; traffic is heavy on some internal routes, but road
transport poses a tough competition for domestic aviation.
26.        Ports.  The port of Bangkok, Thailand's only public commercial port,
where oceangoing vessels can berth, handles over 80% of Thailand's international
sea traffic and about 40% of its coastal traffic. With the assistance of the
Bank's loan for the Third Port Project (Loan 702-TH), its capacity should meet
traffic demand up to 1980. In an effort to divert part of the heavy traffic
away from Bangkok port, the Government has allocated $6 million to build facil-
ities for handling of some civilian cargo (including bulk export traffic) at
Sattahip naval port; and studies are being made (under assistance from ADB)
or updated (by consultants NEDECO) to develop several deep sea outlets (includ-
ing Songkhla, Phuket and Laem Krabang). Apart from deep sea ports, the Govern-
ment also plans to further develop secondary coastal ports in parallel with
improvements to the country's road system. These small coastal ports share
the rest of the total import/export traffic estimated at about 2.4 million
metric tons in 1975.



-8-
27.       Roads.  There are about 12,700 km of national highways (primary roads),
22,250 km of provincial (secondary) roads and about 60,000 km of local (rural)
roads. About 600,000 motor vehicles and 500,000 motorcycles were registered
in 1976. The motor vehicle fleet has grown at about 12% per year between 1966
and 1976 and registrations outside Bangkok had increased from about 60% to 70%
of the total, indicating a continuous spread of transport into the countryside.
Sector Investments
28.       The proposed investment in transport during the Five-Year Development
program (1977-81) is over $1,500 million (about 12% of total planned national
development expenditures) with allocations for highways and provincial roads
of about $1,000 million and local roads 100 million (about 73% of the transport
allocation and about 35% more than in the preceding Plan); railways $200 million;
civil aviation $140 million; and inland waterways and ports about $80 million.
The program emphasis is shifting toward developing an integrated transport system
through'improvement and construction of provincial and rural roads, systematic
maintenance of roads, improvement of inland waterways and water transport and
development of deep sea and small coastal ports. However, the large allocation
for roads reflects the preeminence of road transport in Thailand.
Planning and Coordination
29.       The Ministry of Communications (MOC), through its departments,
including Department of Highways (DOH) and the Harbor Department (HD), and
transport enterprises, is concerned with all transport planning and operations
in Thailand. Recognizing that transport planning would become increasingly
complex once the primary system had been established, the Ministry set up a
Transport Policy and Planning Committee, and in 1974, a Transport Planning
Unit (TPU) with the assistance of consultants provided under the Fifth Highway
Project (Loan 870-TH). TPU acts as the focal point of transport planning;
preparing policy papers and plans as well as helping to formulate the sector
investment program. TPU is now developing a management information system to
provide an improved data base for planning future sector development, evaluat-
ing projects and setting up sectoral priorities.
30.       Roads Executing Agencies.  The Department of Highways (DOH) is
responsible for the administration, planning, construction and maintenance of
national and provincial roads. Local roads come under the Ministry of Interior
and its agencies, the Public and Municipal Works Department and the Office of
Accelerated Rural Development. Royal Irrigation Department, in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Cooperatives, builds and maintains the roads serving
irrigation projects. Roads for internal security are built by the Mobile
Development Unit in the Ministry of Defense.
Road Transport
31.       Since 1966, the demand for road transport is estimated to have
grown at an average compound rate of over 10% per year, compared with the
annnual growth rate of GNP fluctuating between 6% and 9% during the same
period. The public road network developed adequately to meet this demand.
An efficient road transport industry has evolved, mainly owned by private



-9-
operators. The Government owned Express Transport organization (ETO), the
largest trucking firm, owns over 1,000 trucks and hires over 5,000 more.
Truck freight rates are usually negotiated and seem to be competitive
and cost related. The Government's regulations on vehicle weights and
dimensions were amended in 1976 in line with the review completed under the
Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH).
The Roads Network
32.       National Highways.  Since 1963, the national highways, connecting
principal towns and regional centers, have expanded from about 9,000 km to
12,700 km; the proportion paved doubling from 46% to 94%. This system has
largely been defined and for the next few years only a small number of addi-
tional links will be required; a few sections will need to be strengthened and
upgraded, including widening, as these become inadequate for the increasing
traffic volumes, particularly some of the main routes near Bangkok.
33.       The Provincial Roads.  The provincial roads run through rural areas
and, when complete, will connect the provincial centers and medium-sized towns
with the national highway system. In the last 15 years, these roads have nearly
trebled from under 8,000 km to over 22,000 km, largely by reclassification of
local roads and tracks; the gravelled and paved (improved) length had increased
from 2,200 km to nearly 9,000 km. However, more than 13,000 km of unimproved
provincial roads are generally sunken and poorly drained, often lacking in
permanent drainage structures and with little gravel surfacing; many are
largely impassable during rainy season. Reconstruction and improvement of
these roads is important to the economic development of Thailand as they
provide the vital link between production areas and major marketing centers
by feeding traffic into the national network; their construction and improve-
ment reduces transport costs by lowering the costs of operating vehicles, and
by permitting a reliable service and often shortening routes. This increases
the returns which farmers get on their produce and generally, land use tends
to be more intensive in the vicinity of these roads.
34.       The Rural Roads.  It is estimated that there are about 60,000 km of
local roads (tracks and paths), connecting villages. The Government, in the
last few years, has begun improving these roads. The Northeast Rural Development
project (Loan 1198-TH) provides for construction, improvement and maintenance
of about 3,400 km of rural access roads. In 1976, a Bank study (Review of Rural
Road Programming) recommended, as a pilot effort, a systematic review of invest-
ment needs in selected high priority areas (two typical changwats in each of the
country's four regions). Accordingly, the proposed project includes studies and
engineering of rural roads to be implemented by an agency to be designated by
the Government.
35.       Road Maintenance.  Development of the national and provincial roads
network, however, has proceeded without sufficient concern for maintenance.
Routine maintenance (including surface patching, clearing drains, etc.) has
now reached a reasonable standard but the periodic maintenance, (such as
resurfacing bituminous paved roads, reshaping and resurfacing gravel roads and
regraveling shoulders) has not been undertaken on a systematic and adequate
scale, and there is, therefore, a large backlog of such work. At Bank's
instance, a Road Maintenance Study was completed in 1976, by consultants
provided under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH); their recommendations
to carry out an eight-year maintenance program would be implemented under the
proposed project.



- 10 -
Road User Charges and Tolls
36.       The Government has no specific policy yet for taxation of road
users although levies are set to raise public revenue, protect domestic
auto-assembly industry and to limit automobile ownership. In order to permit
full exploitation of the economic potential of all modes of transport and to
ensure that taxation of the dominant mode, road transport, does not lead to
distortions in traffic and misallocations of investments, a study of road user
charges has been included in the project. Further, as the estimates of future
traffic on project roads assume that no tolls will be levied, the Government
has agreed that tolls will not be introduced without prior agreement with the
Bank on the basis of economic and financial evaluations (Section 3.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Bank Lending to Sector
37.       The Bank Group has helped finance 12 previous transportation projects
in Thailand. Four loans have been for railways totalling $52 million. All
four projects were completed satisfactorily; about US$7.5 million of the loan
amount for the Third Project was cancelled as the Government preferred to
purchase the locomotives through direct negotiations. A Fifth Railway Project
is being prepared based on the findings of a mission in November/December
1977. There have been three loans for ports totalling $20.3 million. The
first two port projects were completed on schedule, and the third project
was completed in May 1977, over two years behind schedule largely because of
delays in awarding civil works contracts.
38.       The Bank has made 5 loans totalling $151.6 million for road
construction by DOH; the first in 1963 and the most recent in 1972. The four
completed projects were executed efficiently and with substantial savings in
cost. The quality of construction throughout was good. In the First Highway
Project about US$13.1 million of the loan amount was cancelled at the Govern-
ment's request when some road sections were dropped from the project. The
Second, Third and Fourth Projects were undertaken during a period of domestic
price stability and strong competition among contractors and various amounts
in these loans were cancelled because of bid prices being lower or contingen-
cies not being needed. The Fifth project is progressing satisfactorily
despite cost overruns and delays caused by sharp rise in prices requiring
rebidding of several contracts. With this experience in mind, as well as
comments offered in the Operation Evaluation reports, cost estimates for the
proposed project were finalized after having received and evaluated bids on
more than half of the project roads.
39.       The objectives of Bank-supported highway projects have been achieved
in that (a) construction and paving of the national roads network has been
nearly completed; (b) DOH capabilities in planning, construction and administra-
tion of roads has been strengthened; (c) a competitive and competent domestic
contracting industry has been developed; and (d) arrangements for a long-
term plan for systematic roads maintenance have been defined and agreed. The
proposed project would continue and expand efforts initiated under previous
road projects in Thailand.



- 11 -
JPART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
40.       The feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the provincial
roads included in this project and a study of roads maintenance were financed
under the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH) and were carried out between
1973 and 1977 by Australian consultants Valentine, Laurie and Davis (VLD)
and Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC) in association with Thai
firms of engineering consultants. The Highway Maintenance Study was carried
out by the Danish firm Kampmann, Kierulff and Saxild A/S (KAMPSAX). The Inland
Waterway Study was completed in 1977 by French Consultants, BCEOM. The
Harbour Department (HD) prepared the preliminary studies on coastal ports.
The project was appraised in February/ March 1977. Bids on 7 of the 11
project roads were obtained in early September, 1977. But owing to a change
in Government, negotiations in Washington could not be held until December 5
and were completed on December 9, 1977. The Thai delegation was led by HE
Dr. Arun Panupong, Thailand's Ambassador to the United States, assisted by
Khun Chaleo Vajarabukka (DOH), Khun Kraisri ChaQikavanij (Ministry of Finance)
and Khun Amphon Tiyashorn (HD).
Project Description
41.       The national highways system, which connects the main towns and
regional centers throughout the country, has now been largely defined and
improved. The 1977-81 Development Plan, of which the project is a part,
therefore places increased emphasis on the improvement of provincial and rural
roads, adequate maintenance of these roads, rehabilitation of inland waterway
transport and the development of deep sea and small coastal ports. The
project includes: (a) construction and improvement of high priority sections
of the provincial roads system; (b) provision of road maintenance and workshop
equipment; under the project, the Government would finance and implement an
eight-year program of maintenance of national highways and provincial roads;
(c) a comprehensive review by consultants of the national and provincial
roads to set priorities for improvement; undertake feasibility studies and
engineering, mainly of provincial roads, to prepare future road improvement
projects; and a study by consultants to prepare an investment program for
rural roads in selected provinces; (d) studies by consultants to improve
inland waterways between Nakhon Sawan and Bangkok, construction of an inland
port and related economic studies, (e) feasibility study of about 20 coastal
ports and the preparation of a development program, and (f) technical assis-
tance and training for DOH and TPU. Details are provided in the report
"Thailand - Appraisal of a Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project"
(No. 1692-TH dated January 26, 1978), which is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Annex III of this report incorporates key dates,
implementation action and special conditions for the project.
Construction and Improvement of Provincial Roads
42.       Eleven sections of provincial roads, totaling about 670 km, included
in the project were selected as high priority provincial roads feeding traffic
into and supplementing the national highways; and, in some cases, giving
effective road access to important areas for the first time and providing more



- 12 -
direct and shorter route connections between production and marketing centers.
These roads will be constructed or improved under the supervision of the same
consultants who had undertaken the studies and detailed engineering, namely,
VLD and SMEC and their associate Thai consulting firms. Works are expected to
be undertaken by the highly competitive domestic contracting industry as well
as by several foreign firms. The name of each road section (see map), its
length and the consultants' firm responsible for supervision are:
(a) Nakhon Sawan - Phitsanulok (124 km)(VLD),
(b) Ban Chai Badan - Dan Khun Thot (76 km)(VLD),
(c) Ban Bung - Klaeng (88 km)(VLD),
(d)  Ban Bung - Ban Khai (66 km)(VLD),
(e) Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri (74 km),(SMEC), and one access road
(2 km),
(f) Ban Sali-Ayutthaya (37 km)(SMEC),. and 2 gravel-surfaced access
roads (3 km),
(g)  Sam Khok-Sena (30 km)(SMEC), and 4 gravel surfaced access roads
(10 km),
(h) Bo Phloi-U Thong (39 km)(SMEC),
(i)  Bo Phloi-Dan Chang (78 km) (SMEC),
(j) Hat Yai-Sam Yak Khuha (23 km)(SMEC), and
(k)  Hat Yai - Chana (36 km)(SMEC)
43.       Seven of the road sections above (a, b, e, f, g, j and k) will be on
new alignments to serve areas presently without satisfactory road access. The
remaining 4 sections will be reconstructed to required width and surfacing
with adequate embankments to raise them above flood levels. The existing road
link of about 25 km between Bang Bua Thong and Bangkok (Thon Buri) is inadequate
to carry current or projected traffic from the new Bang Bua Thong-Suphan Buri
road. The Government has given an assurance that it will construct this link
(Bang Bua Thong-Taling Chan-Bangkok) to coincide with project schedule and
before awarding contracts for roads (e), (f) and (g) above (scheduled for
end July, 1978). In accordance with the design assumptions for road (k)
Hat Yai-Chana, the government has assured that the required paving of the
remaining 20-km section of the recently constructed Chana-Thepa-Pattani road
will be completed on schedule by end-1978 (Sections 3.08 and 3.09 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Roads Maintenance Program and Workshop Equipment
44.       The project includes an eight-year program (1979-86) of maintenance
of the national highways and provincial roads to be financed and implemented
by the Government; and procurement of road maintenance equipment with an
initial stock of spare parts. The total level of serviceable equipment would
thus be adequate for future routine maintenance of these road systems.
During negotiations it was agreed that the Government would (a) provide
adequate budgetary provision for the eight-year period, 1979-86, in line with
the agreed indicative annual estimates, (b) set up an arrangement for funding
and future replacement of equipment as it becomes worn out, and for purchase
of spare parts, in the form of a "separate fund"; and (c) carry out mainten-
ance of national and provincial roads, including systematic elimination of
existing backlog, during the 8-year period 1979-86, in accordance with the



- 13 -
recommendations of the KAMPSAX Road Maintenance Study. Maintenance expendi-
tures have increased from $11.5 million in 1967 to $28.1 million in 1976 and
the budget allocation for 1977 is $30.7 million. Annual maintenance costs
are estimated at about $56 million in 1979 rising to $68 million in 1986, an
average of about $60 million during the period 1979-1986 (Sections 3.02 and
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
45.       The project provides for the following studies and engineering by
consultants:
(a) The entire 12,700 km of national and 22,250 km of provincial road
systems would be screened and on the basis of a priority rating for
improvement, about 1,500 km, mainly of provincial roads, would be
selected for feasibility studies. Finally, 1,200 km of roads would
be selected for detailed engineering. During negotiations agreement
was reached on draft terms of reference, and appointment of consul-
tants satisfactory to the Bank, and that roads for feasibility
studies and detailed engineering would be selected in agreement with
the Bank;
(b) as a pilot effort, a systematic review of investment needs of local
and access roads which are the responsibility of the provincial and
district authorities will be made in two typical changwats (provinces)
in each of the four regions based on Bank report "Review of Rural
Roads Programming". Terms of Reference will be finalized with the
agency to be designated by the Government; the study will require 56
man-months of consultants' services;
(c) navigational improvements on the Chao Phya river between Bangkok and
Nakhon Sawan, construction of an inland port at Nakhon Sawan and
related economic analysis; the consultants services are estimated to
total 55 man-months over one year; and
(d) review the adequacy of existing facilities, physical and operating
conditions of about 20 coastal ports with respect to present and
projected port functions and to prepare a development plan; consult-
ancy services totalling 38 man-months are estimated over a period of
14 months.
Technical Assistance and Training
46.       Supervision of construction and improvement of 11 project roads
would be undertaken by VLD and SMEC and their Thai associates, who had earlier
carried out the feasibility studies and detailed engineering. The staff will
be mainly Thai nationals with one foreign engineer on each contract together
with three foreign engineers of each firm based in Bangkok.



- 14 -
47.       The Project provides for technical assistance by consultants (a
civil engineer, a mechanical engineer and an accountant, for a total of 60
man-months) to the Department of Highways to help in the detailed preparation
and implementation of the roads maintenance program, including setting up of
a separate fund for equipment replacement (para. 44), and training of depart-
ment's staff in road maintenance. Technical assistance, totalling 44 man-
months, would also be provided to assist TPU staff and to undertake a road
user charges study (para. 36). Agreement was reached during negotiations on
draft terms of reference for technical assistance and training and terms and
conditions for the employment of consultants.
48.       Under the Project, eight staff members from DOH and four members from
TPU would undergo training in specialized subjects (transportation economics,
mechanical engineering and photo-grammetry) for which suitable courses are not
available in Thai institutions.
The Department of Highways
49.       The Department of Highways (DOH), in the Ministry of Communica-
tions, is responsible for the administration, planning, construction and
maintenance of national and provincial roads. DOH's proposed work program for
the five-year period 1977-81, at an overall outlay of $1,000 million, includes
construction of about 2,100 km of national and 6,300 km of provincial roads
and improvement of about 1,250 km of national and 2,100 km of provincial roads
located in all the four regions of Thailand. Besides Government budget, likely
financing sources are bilateral assistance and loans from international
agencies.
50.       DOH was reorganized between 1964 and 1967 with USAID assistance
and further minor organizational changes were made in 1976 to improve the
Department's road maintenance capabilities on the lines recommended by the
Maintenance Study under Bank Loan 870-TH. DOH is well-organized and well-
operated, functioning as a modern agency with a considerable degree of autonomy.
The Department possesses a well trained and competent professional staff;
problems of inexperience in middle level staff, because of extensive turnover,
are being remedied through a program of on-the-job training and specialized
courses in local and overseas institutions.
The Harbour Department
51.       The Harbour Department (HD), under the Ministry of Communications,
has overall responsibility for sea ports and transport activities in Thai
waters including inland waterways. Specifically, HD has undertaken several
economic and engineering surveys of ports in southern Thailand. -The first
port development was implemented in 1964 at the Port of Katang. Since,
extensive channel dredging was done in several port reaches, including that of
Songkhla, to permit their use by larger vessels. The Department also under-
takes maintenance, dredging and navigational works on inland waterways and in
1977, the French consultants, Bureau Central d'Etudes pour lef Equipement
d'Outre-Mer (BCEOM), completed the feasibility study of the Chao Phya river
waterway.



- 15 -
Cost Estimates
52.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about $207 million and has a foreign exchange component of about
$101 million or about 49%. Total contingencies amount to 28% of base (end
1977) costs. Costs are summarized in the following table:
Estimated Cost:                       -------------- $ million -------------
Project Items                     Local   Foreign   Total   % of Foreign
Exchange
A.  Construction & Improvement        65.70    53.76    119.46         45
of 11 Provincial Roads
B.  Maintenance and Workshop
Equipment                       4.40    17.60      22.00        80
C.  Consulting Services
(a) Supervision of construc-
tion & improvement of
roads                        4.69      3.83      8.52        45
(b)  Road studies & engineer-
ing                          2.84      2.60      5.44        47
(c)  Inland waterways study       0.12      0.70      0.82        85
(d)  Coastal ports study          0.05      0.25      0.30        85
(e) Technical assistance &
training of staff            0.20      0.80      1.00        80
D. Contingencies:
Physical                     7.80      7.95     15.75
Price                       15.27    13.73      29.00
E.  Right of Way                       4.40        -       4.40
Total project cost              105.47   101.22    206.69         49
53.       The estimated average cost per km, (excluding contingency allow-
ances) are: (a) construction and improvement, $178,000; (b) supervision by
consultants, $12,700; and (c) feasibility studies and detailed engineering
for national and provincial roads, $3,300. The cost of consultants services
per man-month, including travel and local subsistence allowances, for the
study of inland waterways is $7,800, for the study of coastal ports is
$7,200 and for technical assistance is $7,000 to DOH and $9,100 to MOC (TPU).
Cost estimates for construction and improvement of 11 provincial roads were
prepared by the consultants, VLD and SMEC, on the basis of detailed bills of
quantities after completing detailed engineering and using unit prices
for similar work obtained from competitive bidding in 1975 and 1976 adjusted
to cover increases in costs to September 1977 when bids on seven of the roads
were received. Cost estimates for procurement of maintenance and workshop
equipment and spare parts are based on end 1977 prices assessed by the
consultants KAMPSAX. Physical contingencies were computed at 10% on all
items and price contingencies at an assumed annual rate of 9% in 1977-1979
and 8% in 1980-1982.



- 16 -
Financing
54.       The proposed loan of $110 million would finance the estimated foreign
exchange costs of the project, together with about $9 million of local costs of
consultants' services. The remaining local costs of about $97 million would
be borne by the Government.
Procurement and Implementation
55.       Construction and improvement of roads will be carried out through
contracts awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding by pre-
qualified firms in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procure-
ment." Road maintenance and workshop equipment will be procured in accordance
with Bank Guidelines with the Bank's usual preference of 15% (or customs duty,
if less) being granted to local manufacturers.
56.       Thailand has a developing domestic contracting industry.  However,
to ensure that adequate capacity is available and to obtain competitive
prices, the Government is vigourously trying to attract foreign contractors
who had done much of the road construction in the past. In all, 48 firms,
some wholly foreign owned, some local and some joint ventures (combined
domestic and foreign owned) had responded and were prequalified. Satisfactory
numbers of competitive bids were received on seven project roads in early
September 1977. Contracts are expected to be awarded for the first group of
roads comprisinQ a. b, c, d, i, j and k (para. 42) after loan signature, and
for the remaining four roads by mid-1978. The construction is expected to be
completed by mid-1982. Procilrement of road maintenance and workshop equipment
is expected to be completed by late 1979. The studies are expected to be
started duiring the second half of 1978 and completed in late 1981. Allowing
for making final payments and completing disbursements, the closing date for
the loan is December 31, 1982. During negotiations an understanding was
reached on a project implementation schedule and an arrangement for reporting
progress.
Disbursement
57.       Disbursements from the proposed Bank Loan would be made at the rate
of 45% of the total cost of construction and improvement of project roads,
100% against the foreign exch-laage cost of directly imported equipment vehicles;
survey boat and spare parts, or the ex-factory cost net of taxes for items
manufactured locally, and 65% of the total expenditures on items procured
locally. For the consulting and engineering services, disbursement would be
at the rate of 100% of total costs and 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
fellowships for staff of MOC and DOH.
Justification
58.       Having provided an all-weather national highway network, the Govern-
ment is now giving increasing attention to the improvement of the provincial
roads network which, by feeding traffic into the national network, would link
more closely the production areas with the major consumption centers, including
Bangkok (see para. 33). This is a logical step to follow in roads development
programming. At this stage, there are no problems in identifying priority
projects because of relatively high traffic volumes on many of the provincial



- 17 -
roads. The traffic development on the national highways during the past
decade was rapid, an estimated average rate of growth reached over 10% per
annum. Similar growth rates appear to have occurred in the past on the high
priority provincial roads selected for the project, some of which are expected
to serve average daily traffic volumes of several thousand vehicles following
construction and improvement.
59.       The objectives of the proposed project are to meet this increasing
traffic requirement and to prevent premature deterioration of the country's
national and provincial roads system. Further, economical and convenient
transportation is expected to increase agricultural production through more
intensive land use and to improve the returns to farmers on their produce.
For the duration of the project, an average of 4,000 people will be directly
employed on the construction works.
60.       The projected traffic volumes in the opening year of the project
roads range from about 300 to 8,000 vehicles a day, comprising of normal
traffic (in cases where a low standard road is already in existence); of flows
diverted to the new facilities from other roads, rail or river transport; and
to a very minor extent, of generated traffic. Each project road has its own
specific traffic characteristics. In preparing the traffic analyses, the
consultants distinguished between six to eight vehicle types, and established
separate growth rates for each individual project road, for passenger and
freight traffic, and for different time periods. These growth rates range
between 3% and 12% per annum. Estimated benefits, which are mainly in the
form of transport cost savings calculated for normal and diverted traffic,
produce economic returns on project roads ranging between 16% and 56% during
their economic life. By increasing the costs of 11 road sections by 10% and
reducing the benefits by same percentage, the extent of decline in the rates
of return would range between 12% and 19%. Yet, 10 roads would still register
rates of returns of 17% or more and only 1 road of about 13% which is accept-
able.
61.       The economic rate of return on the maintenance program was derived
by identifying three classes of roads according to surface types and subdivid-
ing the road categories further according to traffic levels, assumed to grow
at about 8% per year over the program period. With the proposed maintenance
program, the proportion of roads in good to tair condition was expected to
increase from 85% to 95% for paved roads; and from 50% to 90% for earth and
gravel roads. The average cost of vehicle operation on badly deteriorated
roads, both paved and earth/gravel, was calculated at Baht 3.40 per vehicle-km,
and on roads maintained in good to fair condition would be about Baht 2.20.
The only type of benefit used in the economic analysis is savings in vehicle
operating costs and no allowance has been made for possible traffic diversion
to or within the road system and for generated traffic. The analysis was
based on a period of only 8 years and the very conservative assumption was
made that without the proposed maintenance program the road network would be
kept at a constant quality level. On this basis, the economic rate of return
is estimated to be about 80%.



- 18 -
Ecology
62.       The project is not expected to cause any ecological problems.  The
design of the drainage for the roads, including the structures, has been
carried out carefully, and in collaboration with the Irrigation Department in
appropriate areas, so that the works will not cause or aggravate flooding or
erosion. The improvement of the roads, which are nearly all to be paved, will
make travel much easier and more comfortable for the inhabitants of the area
served. New alignments have been located to minimize disturbance to property.
The Government acquires right-of-way by negotiations as far as possible,
although it has adequate compulsory powers if needed. There have been a few
cases in previous projects where delay in acquiring right-of-way has caused
some disruption and delay in construction. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that the government will make available the right-of-way on each
project road section in time for awarding a contract for construction
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Features of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 36,
43, 44, and 62 of this report and are set forth in Section III of Annex III
of this report. There are no special conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOIRIENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Atta hments
February 2, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANMEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
THAILAND            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------_-----__--------______________
---------------                                   THAILAND                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      514.0                                        MOST RECENT
AC-RIC.     144.1                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           PHILIPPINES   KOREA REP.OF  JAPAN **
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     100.0 *   210.0 *   38o.0 L*             230.0 *    280.0 *  2630.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            26.6      36.3       43.0 /A             36.9        32.2       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY                                                 -a
PER SQUARE KM.                       52.0       71.0       840 01_            123.0       327.0       280.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       212.0      263.0      298.0 /a            375.0      1371.0      1744.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         47.1       44.3       37.6                44.2        35.0        17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           19.8      13.7        9.1                13.2        11.4         7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..      80.0       68.0                80.0        60.0        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.0       55.5       58.o                55.6        65.0        71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..        3.2       3.1                 3.3         2.6         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.0       3.1        2.9                 3.0         2.3         1.0
URBAN                                  5.2       4.9        5.1                 4.0         6.4         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           12.7       15.0       16.5               31.8        41.2        84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.0       45.1          ..               45.6        42.1        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.0       51.8                           51.6        54.5        68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.0       3.1          ..                2.8         3.4         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9         .9                           0.9         0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9j       1.1/A       ..                1.5         1.4         0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            *-     470,0    2060.0                354.0      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..      10.0       26.6                 2.0        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        13700.0 A16700.0 A17700.0                 12300.0    10200 0    53300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          82.0      79.0       76.0                55.O        50:.5A      19.0
UNEMPLO'ED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..       7.0 /               7.0         4.5         1.2
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVAIE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             21.8 /C   22,0 IC                                                14.2
HICHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            50.9 _    51.1 7'F    .                      .,       17.1        14.
__1:                                     . .       '14.5       37.G
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.2 /e           I     ..                  ..         7.1         8.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            14.9                                                   14.3,c  ..  ..  17.7  22.3
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                  ..       28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  .,        2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  .,    7970.0   6750.0 i                          2180.0 LC   880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..   6650.0   4330.0                     .       2170.0 /     240.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1340.0k  890.0          170.0              850.0      1900.0        80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0     103.0      107.0               100.0       103.0       106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              47.0       52.0       56.0  /C            45.0        65.0        76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..      17.0 /d       .                22.0        19.0        45.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..         ..                9.0           ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                                  81,0       83,.o /            113.0       104.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       7.0      16.0       19.0                49 0        4'.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0      12.0       12.0                10.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     19.0       14.0 /e   13.0 /de              6.0 A      16.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..       79.0       82.0                  ..       87.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..         ..                2.1         2.7          1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                          .        *           *                76.0        8o.o /       5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..       63. Odf             23.o        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..      13.0 L.              7.0        300
CONSUMIPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           6.0       78.0       76.0               45.0        126.0      551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        5.0        7.0 .L              8.0         2.0        84.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            23.0      124.0      194.0              235.0       307.0      3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.7        1.0        1.4                 2.0         3.5        18.9
SEE---------NOTES------------AND------------------------------------__-------__-ON-------REVERSE_-___---____
SEE NOTES AND DEFIN1TlONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwias  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970. and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
*    GNP per capita data are based on the World Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Alhough lJpan's GNP per capita is much higher than that of Thailand, Jopan has been selected as an objsctiva country because Thailand's
development process can reasonably be measured against that of iapan, as Asian country which is highly trade oriented, has moved free, an
agricolturally based to an industrially based economy, and in doing so haa retained ita cultural distinction.
THAILAND          1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to econmically active populstion age 11 and over;    /b  Economically
active population age 11 and over;    /c  1962-63, rural only;    /d  1962.
1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to economically active population age 11 and over;    /b  Economically
active population age 11 and over;    /c  Rural only;    /d  1964-66;    /n  Public schools, which Include technical
education at the poet-secondary level.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:        a  1976;    /b  Bangkok only;    /c  1969-71 average;    /d  1971;    /e  Poblic schools which include
technical education at the post-secondary level;    /f  to percent of population in Bangkok metro-
politan area;    /g  Other 67 provinces.
PHILIPPyINE       1970    /a  Aa percentage of employment;    /b  Not including private vocational schools.
KOREA REP. OF   1970    /a  Government estimate is 38.0;    /b  A. percentage of employment;    /c  Registered, not all practicing in the coontry;
/d Water piped inside.
R12, Auguat 16, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Area (thos ke2)                                                                          Poculation oar moraine person - Population divided by  -ubee of praccicing
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland wate-.                               male and female gradoat nureei, vtrained" or "c-rtified  nurse, and
^erb. - MosMt recant estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or peema-                   aumiliary personnel with traiing or sepere-ce.
nently foc crops, pasturcs, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                      Population per hospital bed - Population divided by ntmber of hespital beds
available in public and private general and specialised hospital and
GNP cer capita (US$) - GNP par capita estimates ot corrent market prices,                       rehabilitation centera; excludes nursing homes and eatablisleeta for
calculated by same conversOair method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    cuatodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 dare.                                                                   Per capita supply of calories (% of resairements) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net feod supplies available in country per capita per day;
Popolation and vital statistic,                                                                 available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lees exports, and
Population (mid-year million)   As of July first:  if not available, avarage                    changes is stock; net aspplies en.clde scihol feed, aseed, quantities used
of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                          in food procesSing and losses in distribution; rqsirneta were estimated
by FAO base.d on physiological needa far normal activity and health comaid-
Population density - per  quaore km - Mid-year population per square kilometer                  cring envirots1enral temperature, body weights, age and see distributions of
(100 hectares) of total area,                                                                 population, and allowing 107 far caste at household level.
Population density - per sqwre as of agric  land - Computed as above for                      Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per napito
agriculturaI land only,                                                                       net supply of food per day; net supply of feed is defined as above; require-
ments for all coustries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                                provide for a minims allowance of 60 grace of total protein per day, end
Crude birth rate per thousand, average - Annual live births per thousand of                      20 grace of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be ansian
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averagea ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; theae standards are lawer than those of 75 grams of total protein
end five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent eatinae.                                 and 23 grGs of animal proteis a   n average for the world, pr-posed by F,';
Crude death rate per thousand, average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                  in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithmetic  nerages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                                         derived from acimlIa and poises in grams per day.
In fant mortality raCe (thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousa.nd in age group 1-¼
per thousand live births.                                                                    yeara, to  hildren in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth (yr.) - Average number of years of life remaining at                   malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
log countries.                                                                              Education
lross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughtera a woman will bear                   Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollme t of s11 ages as per-
in her normal reproductive period if she eaperionces present age-specific                     centage of primary school-age population;  ncludes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; ususlly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                     but sdjusted for different lengths of primary education; for constries with
for developing cuntries                                                                       sniversal education, enrollment may e..ceed 100. since some pupl1s are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rate of mid-year                     or above the official school ag.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adlusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rate (7) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                          education requires at lesat four years of approved primary inatruction;
population; different definition  of urban areas may affect comparability of                  providea general, vocational or teacher training instructions far pupils
data among countries                                                                          of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence cosrses are generally escleded.
Urban population (/ of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                 Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban  --ga  saY afet  co-L   paraltifri-  of data among to n_rree             schooling; at secondary level, vecatienal instructian may be partially or
completely e1,slsded.
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 yearu), wurking-age (15-64 yearn),                   Vocational enrollment (% of secondary) - Vocational institutiona  include
and retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                       technical, Industrial or other progras  which operate independently or as
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 a-d over to those                    deparomct-s of secondary institctions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literocy rate (7) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dopeud      enccy_rtio - Rctio of popolatiot   under 15 ond 65 ond over to             c-ntage  f tutal adul population aged 15 years and ovr-
the Labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Family pla.ning - acceptors  ccumulative, thou) - funslative u-b- of aeptors                   H..os ig
of birth-control d-vices under auspices of nattonal family planning progra                  Persons par room  (urban) - Avarage number of persons per room in occupied
sone inception                                                                                conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwelliigs e-clude .oo-paemanent
Family planning - users (/. cf uarried women) - Percentages of married women of                  structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who sue birth-contr-I devices to all married                Occupied dvellings without piped wat-r (/) - Occupied conoe-tioca1 dwellings
women in some age group.                                                                       in urban and rural ateas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of a11 occupied dwellings.
meloymec r                                                                                     accests to electricity (b. or all dwilsingsj - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor4force (thound) - Economically active persons, including armed                        electricity in living quarters as perccnt of total dwelltngs in urban and
forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                   rural  rae.1
in osrious countries are not comparable                                                     Rsral dwellings connected to electricity (7) - Computed as above for rural
Labor force in agriculture C/  - Ag Iicultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hunting asd fishing) as percentage of total ilbor force.
Unemployed (% of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons who                 Consusplton
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, remained out               Radio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimus period sot e-ceeding use                   to general public per thassand of population; occludes unlicensed receivers
eak; may not be comparable between countries due to different definitions                      in countries and in yeare when regintratio- of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed and spurce of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample                  data for receut years may cot be comparable sioce inst countries abolished
snrveya, compulsory suomploy-.trisrse,lcnig
assenger sacs (per thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars seating
Income distributio - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                        bus than eight per.on.; eocludes ambulances, hearses and military
received by richest 57, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                   vehicles.
Soldad-                                                                                     Electricity (kwi/e pee can) - Annual consumptios of industrial, -omrctil,
public and private elantrinity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distributiop of land ownership - Percentageg  of land owned by w-althi-t 107.                   based on production data, without allowance for Ioss  in grida but allow-
and puorest 107 of lnd owear.                                                                 ing for imports and esports of electricity.
NeFsprint (kgeyr per cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilogramsa
Health and Nutrition                                                                             estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Papulatian per physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school arusivers ity level,



51               '0            10                   0              C.           10                           0.
01  11 '0   -. '00   0001-'-' .0      001-  0    - 100001.-  01000-001.--  '0o-oO               -10                    -'00
0  10 '1   oo0              *100              0                    10         .  '1  .  .  1010  -0.0 ooooo-oo..--  100
0      0              00               10                  10             -.          1010                        .10
-  0  -    010                010             0                    0              10         OIl.
0  0  -    10    H  1010HC1101--       10'' -      001010 '-00t-'-'  0  100H1001  0  0101  010                         -o
0  0  0        I'  0  00010100         0000               r            0100011   0  00       010  10010H00 10000101010  '-'0
0  0  0    0    0  000  01001  10  <Cl'-            000100000   0.                    <Co   010  '00<00'010'001-0
0100,-'00o010110,-'-OOrooo..-Oo                              00-00 - 10-00 "'0  OOoo00000o  001
10010        1011  100..100 0    .1  00-o  -    oOooo'00   0  0'0'10'o                00.',    k   0000000000,   00
10  0    00       000000   0  000   0    010100 0010   ,-'  .0   10101001.0                10000100000000   000
00'100010010  00  110  0010  10    00000                    0    100       -  0001   0101010010100                 1010
0          000000                  000   0    00--'--  0    0.  010.000000'  000                 -'.0000 000-.-"0.  or'
0        -.   00 000000   0            0  0       000  01-'.  I'  -00   00            0        00000          0100      0
0        00.  01    00000   0          0        00100000001-',-,.  ii                0  0.    0  00   II   000   00
'1       00000        0       0  '0   00.00100        000000                 0        0010000        000   100
110  00      0          0    oIl  10-10    10  00000   -                     oIl  0000   0  0    10
10       00       <0   000-0  0            0    001  10010    0  000-        '0                0<   000-0101010-0
100  -.  100-  00                0    Olo  00(1       0  00.00101  IC                 010  '0  01-'  1001'  '0
0        00   0  01'  0100   0             0    0    0010    0    0  00   o                    10010100000   0
0          0  <  0010   '-'10                  '0   00110          010100.0-                                   0
10      1010  0  00                        0          10  0        000000                                     100.0
0        0    0    0        0              0            0          0-'0.00                     1<   00-0      0  0  '0
0        010  10    0       10            0-          00-          0  0                        1110   '-0-    000   o
0        -'00  11    0      '0                        0<           0  0                          0-    0      01010-  -.
0                           .0         <10          0                             I-'-   001    0  0  0
0                           0          100         00                             0    100    0100   0
10                          0          000          0                             0    00        010  0
'010                             0-         000                                         10   0-        0    0.
1010                             0          0                                           0      H       0-
0.10                             0            0           l                            0-    0110     0
10-                            10          nO          10                                   OH
0                              0           oO                                         0
0                              10          0                                          0     H
01       100110  10            r    0 000l.-1000                                                     2.
'0    010000-o  '0                                                                 01
'0             0               .  0'                  1000         100100...00010'0  10          10
0011000001000'  10            0'
100  1001100100                                       I  10o000o         0010         01000'010
00010000                                              0  1001000'        oCo          '00101000010010000
00000.-0'  '0                                  000100-  01011010  0
(0                   001010101001  0       10          000          000010100010-'.- 10          '0
101010.-0100'   I  010010010      . .          00'-010 010001000001
100101001010                                          0  0101000.0       0010         0'-0001000000                 0
1010  0  0100010                 0                        10001100       0100'        10001100000101000
10        K    10010
0  000   0    .  .             lo                               00010001000                     00     00
101 1'    . -  10<  10010101011000  0                                                             010       10
10  01  1000       0100010000010000              1010
0101       011010  10  10  1000  1001                10  01.0011001                  0010 1000010'01'001           010       10
101000000>0-  '0  100110                              0  000100          00101        01000000001.-.00              100       0
100                                     000                             .            10
-1000  100000                    10                       0010000        01010        10100.0' 0000000
JO                10                                                                       Cl
COOCOCO   10                                  01   10        10  01                   10
0  00101010110010                                  100010  010100'  0                     01
0-   100000000   I                                                   .           10       0
10   01100101      1000         0011000000000   0             '0       00
0101       010110                  0                  0  0100100         . .          10010100000010  '0            0         10
0101000        100101       100000100101010   0           10       00
000                             .                    .0
100  10  010010       10                                  01010100       0100         10011010100001010                      00
10                            v0'                                                  100010101010101010             0
0   0                                                           00000100000                  10
01  1001     000                                                  00
010        010101                                         01010010       .  .         100101010000000
0010001        00101        1010 01000110o 0'100
01000110       0010o        001000-001010000                      - 10
01                                                                 1001001  0000   00                      H
10              o                                       01  01        01010        0000100010110000               10
0101                                                                                                                  I
100               I               '..I                      1010010      .            1000110o00010010.-             00  -
00                 01001010                                 . '   0100'   .                                            0
10  I                                    0001100       100101       0'0'000001101001010           00
0  It  *..                               10011001     0100          0101001000001010
100                                                                                  0
00                                                  0    01        01  01           10
00                                                  00000   0001010  0               0
1010100'                  0000001100000110              00
0                       000001       01000         011001010010010010
0                       0000010      10001        001010100000010100             0
001000                    OCCo 0'000o                    0
I  I                    01         01
01000                     00100   1010100  10
0100010                   00100  '00110010
0.001                            -.0000                     0.01000  0101010  10
10                      00001                      000100000100                  1001
1001000                   0000000  0101000  00
001010                    1000-100001010
.*.   K                                                       010100101010               1001
10         p0                                                     010010  '0.0010   0
00100000  0                 0.0



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE. OET AND CREDITWORHTINESS
(Cur rent 550 tallIions )
Actual                                                Projected
1971        1972        1973        1974        1975       1976ft        1977        1985         1990
Sumary of BaIance of Payments
Eupoets (iDcoIding NFS)                                    1,210.0    1,532.0    2,084.7        3,085.8    2,851.4    3,560.4    3,714.9   l1,618.4    22,065.0
Impacts (including SF1)                                    1,429.6        1,627.0    2,250.3    3,420;2    3,557.1         3,990.3    4,680.3    12,718.2    23,771.6
R.soorce balance                                            -219.6        -95.0      -173.6      -334.4      -705.7       -430.1      -965.4    -1,099.8    -1,705.8
Net factor no-vice income                                       1.4       -15.8       -20.8        -8.7          5.6      -42.4        -25.0       -567.8    -1,341.8
N       -et tutor-ot pay eca                                28.0         10.0         7.0        36.0        69.0        26.1         41.6       -375.3       -811.6
Of tich 00 public M & LT loa-                            -18.6        -19.9       -25.1       -28.1       -34.5       -46.7       -56.5        -308.7       -553.u
Dlrecc tninyeecmeot iDcotse                                -27.0       -26.0       -28.0        -37.0       -64.0       -68.5       -66.6        -192.5       -530.0
Worker  r-eittanceti (net)
Crroot   ..on.feto (not)                                       43.5        59.5       145.5       245.9        81.7         23.2        50.0        100.0         300.0
BSlo1co on cur-tot account                                  -174.7        -51.3       -48.9       -89.2      -618.4      -449.3       -94U.4    -I,567.6    -2,747.7
Pr-iate diroct In ectuc                                       39.0        56.0        67.0       137.0        65.0         66.3      L10.0         450.0       1,200.0
GCrante 4Sr-ant-litkur-iooe-                                                 -           -           -            ----
Public M 4 Li boors
Di.-b-u-eoont                                               47.9         50.4        69.0        95.9       149.2       241.7        333.4        027.7      1,103.0
Alcilacio                                                  -21.8       -23.7        -29.8       -32.3       -34.7        43.4       -45.1        -252.5       -398.7
NSo  diobor-conta                                           26.0         26.7        39.2        63.6       110.5       L98.3        288.3        575.2        785.1
Oothe Y 4 LT Loanos
Ds.ar-.omects                                              234.0       247.0        179.2       416.0       392.0       360.2        525.0      1,462.9      3,081.0
omorcleatioo                                              -176.0    1-17.0         -226.0      -229.0      -304.0       3L1.3      -375.0    -1,135.9    -2,324.7
Not dichou-seoto                                            38.D         0.0       -47.0        187.0        88.0        48.8        150.0        327.0        757.4
UeofIMFr-nources                                                 -           -           -           -           -          77.6          -             -
Ohort-cotc  capitol arantoccionn                                7.0        33.0        42.7        63.0       132.0        i38.9       1o0.7        15D..)        200.3
Capital  ranorclonn Sf1                                       54.3        47.6        60.7       120.6        27.0        -3.6           -         121.0         273.4
Change in coserves (-lo-cincrase)                            -10.0      -192.0       -113.D      -482.0       195.0       -75.0        301.4         55.6       -468.3
Not for-igo e-chogne reuecon /b (end of per-ld)              777.0        969.3     1,082.0    L,564.0    1,3b9.0    1,444.0    1,347.0           2,L26.4      3,069.0
ir-a,,r tod Loan Commitnents
27) lc;.o) groants-                                                          -           -           -            --
To,   coOO ni d, LT Ll o-                                      61         141o.4       87.1       436.5       223.4        372.3
166i                                                        27.0       86.0          15.0       142.0        95.0       158.0
703                                                           -           -         25.0          7.0          -           -
<nctser ooir:loer-rl                                        18.0        23.0         6.4        77.2         62.7        92.1
15.8        37.4        24.0       200.5        47.7        22.2
of hich centrally plonnod dco ics /c                           -           -i-                     -           -            -
Suppliers                                                     1.1                                  -
Fia--cLal :-ni-ti-oo                                          -           -         16.7         9.7        18.0       100.0
Noemoroodorn Items
Cr-ant ciomeno  of toral co=miten-ts 07)                       23.3        30.6        47.4        31.4          0.2
Aneroge  intcrent (1Y.)                                         6.4         6.0         3.9         5.7          7.6
Aerag  ta-unity (year-l                                        19.9        2809        29.3        23.8         23.2
Iotditr- andLone-Ocr-  lent lOLoruod only)
Total debt  - -or-aediag (7OD end of penlid'                  790.9       897.9       906.3    1,160.7      1,293.2    1,606.5
1ccluding o-dib-r-nd                                        966.3    1.162.5    1,184.8    1,770.0    2,029.2    2,403.7
95b,6i1  dci  _eoca                                          -40.5        -43.6       -54.9       -60.4       -73.2       -94.2
eIntrest                                                     -10.65       -19.9       -25.1       -26.1       -34 .5      -46.7
OhIr  M &LT dog snrvirc                                     -199.0       -191.5      -230.       -296.6      -383.4      -381.4
TOcol dobt -c-rc                                            -239.5       -235.1      _313.6      -359.0      -456.6       -475.6
Debit rdr- (cL)
Dobt  -ecalac cr-io                                            19.8        15.3        15.0         11.6        16.0        13.4
DBb: service rocio /d                                          22.0        17.0        16.4         12.8        18.3        15.97
Debt secr-i-CDP                                                 0.4         0.4         3.0         2.7          3.1         2.0
Poblic dobt-h        G servico/Ccr--oven -et                    4.1         4.0         4.3          3.2         4.3         4.3
Terms _t)
Interest on torol OOD;t-otl DOD                                 5.2         5.1         5.7         5.5          5.6         5.7
Tcr-al dor nor-oce/conol 3OD                                   11.3        17.2        12. 14 L.                11.9        11.3
Ocecedecc  l4toac  fcr- Mt 4 iT Bo:  %
6rons dlnbocsoetenin/iuponto  (inclodOop 0FS)                  19.7        16.3         11.0        15.0        15.2        17.5
Noe  coccifor-/mpor-t  (inclodlog NF0)                         3.0         3.8        -2.9          4.5         2.4         3.5
No caun-t-I/go..n disbure _ens_                                15.0        21.0       -26.4        29.9         15.6        22.7
100  dcubor--oenna/7r-ou  total dicbrs-ce....                  6.9        10.1        14.8          6.6         7.h         7.2
Bnok Group disbncneeootmlgrnn icr-cl diub rsescoct              6.9        15.1        14.8          6.8         8.1         0.3
IB00  00D/total DO                                            21.4        21.3        24.1        20.8         20.0        L. 6
Bank Gr-up DOD/Ioca1 DOD                                       21.4        21.3        24.1         20.9        20.3        19.2
flED debt lervic/tctal debt sIr-i-e                             0.1         8.2         7.9          7.7         7.I         7.6
Ba_k Gcoup debt c irce/toTcl debt  cnrvce                       8.1         8.2          7.9         7.7         7.0         7.6
Etnf-al Dobt (Diobursed cola)                               Oustandino 12/31/76
(Content USh  nilijons)                                    Amocnt           1
IBRD                                                          298.4        36.3
Book Gr-op                                                    309.0        37.6
Other-  oltilateral                                           107.1        13.0
6ner-ncen-t                                                   248.9        30.1
Of  thibh --ctally plaoned econoes /-
Suppliers                                                      17.0         2.1
Financial l-sLitr-ors-                                        138.6        16.9
L onds
Psilor- doer- net-                                                           -
Toral pobllr  3 & iT debt                                     821.7       100.0
Or-her polir-  L&   debt                                      784.8        95.5
Other- Y 4 L  debI                                            784.8        95.5
local pobIlc debt 760r-Odilo  codiubrucld)                  1,606.5       195.5
otal Y & L0 dobt )inloding undioborned)                     2,403.7       292.5
L/L Pr-elininur-y.
/b Net forr-igo ..me.t: 09S equivalent of Lin 31.
Is  Iorl-udou CY7LA countr-io, Peeploa tepublir  of Chi.a, North Kor-N, Sooth Viet Mae.
/d  Including  -et diroct in-et-teni income.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATlONS IN THAILAND
A. STAIEMENT )F BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                         Less Cancellations
Credit No.   Year    Borrower                 Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans fully disbursed                           374.4       -        -
822-TH        1972    Kingdom of Thailand   Education        15.4       -     9.8
864-TH        1972    Telephone Organiza-   Telecommuni-  37.0          -     7.9
tion of Thailand        cations
870-TH        1972    Kingdom of Thailand   National         28.6       -     2.9
Highways
369-TH        1973    Kingdom of Thailanid  Education           -   19.5      9.0
379-TH        1973    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation          -    5.5      0.2
898-TH        1973    State Railway           Railways       15.0       -     0.5
461-TH        1974    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation          -    7.0      3.4
977-TH        1974    Electricity Genera-   Power            75.0       -    36.8
rating Authority of
Thailand
992-TH        1974    Industrial Finance    Industry         12.0       -      1.9
Corporation of
Thailand
1021-TH       1974    Metropolitan Water-   Water Supply  55.0          -    31.8
works Authority
1149-TH       1975    Kingdom of Thailand   Irrigation    95.0          -    86.4
1198T-TH ISF 1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Rural Devel-
opment       21.0      -    19.4
1199T-TIH ISF 1976    Kintgdout oL Thailand   Livestock       5.0       -     4.8
1243-TH       1976    Kingdom of Thailand   Rubber
Replanting  50.0       -    48.4
1253-TH       1976    Telephone Organiza-   Telecommuni-
tion of Thailand       cations      26.0       -    22.6
ISF:  Interest Subsidy Fund



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
Amounts ($ million)
Loan or                                                          Less Cancellations
Credit No.  Year    Borrower                  Purpose         Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1271-TH     1976    Kingdom of Thailand    Education          31.0      -      30.1
1327-TH     1976    Industrial Finance        Industry        25.0      -     25.0
Corporation of
Thailand
1393-TH      1977    National Agricul-        Agriculture    28.0       -     27.8
tural Extension
1468-TH     1977    Kingdom of Thailand    Irrigation         55.0      -     55.0
1485-TH      1977    Electricity Gene-
rating Authority
of Thailand           Power           50.0      -      50.0
1492-TH      1977    Industrial Estate
Authority of
Thailand /a           Sm. Industry    4.8       -       4.8
Total                                           1,003.2   32.0   478.7
of which has been repaid                        163.0      -
Total now outstanding                             840.2   32.0
Amount sold /b                     68.5
of which has been repaid         31.8            36.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    803.5   32.0
Total undisbursed                                 466.1   12.6
/a Not yet declared effective.
/b Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amounts ($ million)
Year          Company            Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Concrete Products
Aggregate Ltd.                                 0.30       -      0.30
1964   Industrial Finance        Industrial Finance
Corporation of
Thailand (IFCT)                                   -   0.38       0.38
1969   Siam Cement Group         Cement and Construc-
tion Materials      18.33   3.75    22.08
1975   Siam Cement Group         Cement and
Construction
Materials           10.00       -    10.00
1977   Mutual Fund               Capital Market
Company Limited                                   -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar              Food and Food
Terminal Limited          Processing           2.50   0.20      2.70
Total gross commitments                         31.13   4.63    35.76
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                         19.61   2.35    21.96
Net held by the Corporation                     11.52   2.28    13.80



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of Dece.iiber 31, 1977)
Loan No    2  Second Education Project (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of MIay 24, 1972; Effective Date: August 22, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
his project involves development of Kasetsart University and
the reloation of certain 1--its to a new campus. Although the technical
assistance and educational aspects of the project are largely on schedule,
civil works are about three years behind schedule with consequent delays in
furniture and equipment procurement. Delays in civil works are due to:
(a) an initial 15-month delay in contracting consultant architects; (b) an
18-month delay in completing tender documents; and (c) 2-5 month delays in
contracting civil works. The situation of contract awards is improving:
about 75% of the civil works and 50% of equipment packages have been awarded,
and remaining bid packages for civil works ($6.0 million) are in the process
of being awarded. Furniture and the remaining equipment packages will be
contracted in late 1978. Contracted construction is progressing well, and the
specialist services program under the project is nearly completed. All the
fellowships have been awarded; 84 recipients have completed their training.
Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by 36%. Disbursements
amount to about $5.6 million and are expected to increase to $9.0 million by
the end of FY78.
Loan No. 864 Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975 following initial delays in procurement. The procurement
action on all Bank-financed items is now substantially completed and $36.1 mil-
lion of the Loan has been committed. The balance of $0.9 million will be
committed in 1978. About 77% of the local telephone network expansion has
been completed and the balance will be completed by July 1978. Procurement of
long-distance transmission equipment under a bilateral loan has been delayed
which will cause the project completion to slip to September 1979, two years
and nine months behind appraisal schedule.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Works under the project have been divided into nine contracts, of
which four have now been completed. Work on seven of the contracts was
interrupted in 1974 because rapid increases in costs led to financial problems
for the contractors. Work was resumed on three contracts after renegotiating
the contract prices with the Government. The other four contracts were
terminated by agreement between the Government and the contractors; new
contracts were awarded and work was resumed in early 1976. Over 80% of the
work has been completed. Because of higher prices in the bids for completing
the unfinished work, total cost of the project is expected to be around $75 mil-
lion, or about 28% above Lhe appraisal estimate, with Government financing
the overruns. Despite these difficulties the project is likely to be completed
no more than one year behind the original schedule. The highway maintenance
study and feasibility studies for future projects have been completed, and
detailed engineering of the roads found to be feasible has been completed.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 18 months behind schedule, but
substantial progress was made during the last two years. Contracting has
reached 95% of civil works and 70% of furniture and equipment. Technical
assistance is progressing well. The expert services program is virtually
completed.  Ninety-five percent of fellowship funds have been committed.
Disbursements have reached $n105 million compared with $3.0 million one
year ago.
Credit No. 379 Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $5.5 Million
Credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: August 23, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is about 90% complete and should be completed by June
1978. Construction has been somewhat delayed because of procurement difficul-
ties for civil works. However, disbursements are in line with appraisal
estimates. Yields and cropping intensities on the completed parts of the
project are roughly equal to appraisal estimates. A project extension service
has been set up and is operating satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan No. 898 Fourth Railways Project; $15 Million Loan of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Parts of the project are behind schedule by about 18 months due to
slow procurement. However, apart from rails needed for track renewal (now
being financed by the Government), all material has been received. A contract
for the remaining item financed by the Loan, technical assistance, has been
negotiated with consultants. The growth in passenger traffic slowed in
1975/76, due to passenger fares being increased in November 1975. Freight
traffic has continued to grow (6% in 1975/76), mainly due to increased
cement production. Despite the tariff increases of late 1975, the SRT earned
no return in 1975/76 (against the prescribed 2% rate of return), but, with
the increased traffic, it expects to earn about 1% in the current year,
together with a debt service coverage of 1.4 times (against 0.4 times in
1975/76). A project completion report is being prepared.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date: October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is about one year behind schedule through delays in
appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equipment. During the
1976/77 working season there was a marked improvement in the pace of construc-
tion, especially on the tertiary canals. Progress in rehabilitation of
main canal systems has been satisfactory although somewhat behind schedule.
Encouraging progress is being made in developing agricultural extension
services in the project areas. The estimated project cost is $24.7 million,
or about 96% over the appraisal estimate. In part, the increased cost is due
to price inflation being higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large
part of the increase is due to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over
the entire project area and to adopt higher standards for tertiary development
than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are compensated for by increases
in projected commodity prices and the economic rate of return is now estimated
at 28% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress on the rainfed rice component
has improved due to strengthened project management and organization.
Loan No. 977 Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million Loan of
April 15, 1974; Effective Date:  June 14, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 992 Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory. Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project consists of expansion and improvement of raw water
facilities, construction of a treatment plant of 800,000 cu m/day capacity and
transmission tunnels and distribution centers to meet the expected water
demand of the metropolitan area through 1982. A complementary project financed
by Asian Development Bank (ADB) includes trunk mains, distribution pipes,
tubewells and purchase of water meters. All contracts of the IBRD project
have been awarded and construction accomplishment, as measured by contractor
earnings, is 43%. Due to delays in the award of contracts, the project
completion will nrobably be delayed by about 18 months to the last half of
1979. Due to inadequate tariffs, which were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's
financial performance continues to be poor. MWWA's proposals for raising the
water tariffs in line with the increased operating costs, shelved by the
previous Government, have now been submitted to the new Government.
Loan No. 1149  PhitsanulokIrng4gtinP ect, $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about a
year, prospects are good that the revised schedule can be adhered to. A
contract was recently awarded for the first of four major civil works contracts;
tenders have been received for the second contract; and most of the equipment
for the project is delivered or on order. The on-farm works are proceeding on
schedule, with four pilot projects in operation. The consulting services for
the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident staff
and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for monitor-
ing project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established and
the reporting of project progress has improved. The preliminary phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the Loan, has been completed, and
the next phase is continuing. Work will begin soon on a feasibility study for
the Phitsanulok II Project. Consultants are being selected for the RID
Administration and Organization Study.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1198T  Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has seven components: construction of 1,300 km of
village access roads; strengthening maintenance programs for 2,000 km of
existing rural roads, including provision of equipment; rural electrification;
village water supplies; development of improved techniques for upland crop
cultivation; an agricultural extension program in four provinces; and agricul-
tural development in two existing land settlements. After a delay of one year
in appointing consultants good progress is being made on the engineering of
the village roads and the first of nine construction contracts has been
awarded. Procurement problems continue to delay the water supply component.
Progress on rural electrification is excellent and this component will be
completed on schedule in September 1978. Progress on agricultural extension
and land settlements is satisfactory. The upland crop component has been
delayed by staffing and organizational problems.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Progress of the main component is satisfactory. The seed production
and pasture development programs are progressing reasonably well, although the
"loaned" bull program has been hindered by the delay in importation of cattle.
Permanent staff are being appointed to the project, and the technical assist-
ance component is being ably implemented by the New Zealand Government.
Disbursements are considerably behind schedule, but should pick up within the
next few months once outstanding requests for disbursements are received in
the Bank.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date; January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Despite some initial delays in procuring fertilizers, project
implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1253  Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The procurement action has been initiated on all components of the
project. The Loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1978. Civil
works are in progress. Local network expansion is expected to be completed as
per schedule by mid-1979 but due to a year's delay in tender award for trans-
mission equipment under a bilateral loan, the long-distance network expansion
for the project is only expected to be completed by September 1980, nine
months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million of September 13, 1976;
Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1327    Third IFCT Project; $25 Million of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of sharply
depressed investment climate in 1976. Capital structure and liquidity position
have improved, however, with success of share capital increase. Satisfactory
progress has been made on institution-building aspects of project.
Loan No. 1393    National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million of
May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is progressing well; costs remain close to
the appraisal estimate, but disbursements are slightly behind schedule, mainly
due to lengthy procurement procedures. Disbursements are expected to be close
to, or ahead of the appraisal estimate in 1978. Additional supervisory staff
appointments at district and provincial level will be made and the overall
system of training and visits will be further improved. Proposals for monitor-
ing are being prepared, a project accounLing system is being established, and
monthly reports are presented in a timely manner.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Preparatory activities are progessing well. A Project Director,
Project Managers for the Chao Phya and Mae Klong components, and a Project
Coordination Committee have been appointed and consultants have been engaged
for the Chao Phya component. Equipment procurement has begun and designs and
contract documents are being finalized for the 1978 on-farm construction
program of 10,900 ha. Project monitoring and cost recovery systems are being
set up and the Chao Phya project area came under the National Agricultural
Extension Project in October.
Loan No. 1485    Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20. 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation is satisfactory. The main civil works
contract was awarded in October 1977 and preparatory works are under way.



ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
SIXTH HIGHWAY (PROVINCIAL ROADS) PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was prepared over a period of about four years
(June 1973 - June 1977).
(b) Project preparation was undertaken by the Department of Highways
(DOH) and Harbour Department assisted by consultants VLD, SMEC,
Kampsax and BCEOM.
(c) The project has evolved from studies and detailed engineering
undertaken under the Bank's Fifth Highway Project (Loan 870-TH); and
studies undertaken by Harbour Department (coastal ports), and BCEOM
(inland waterway). A Bank mission appraised the project in February/
March 1977.
(d) Departure of the Appraisal Mission: February 1977.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: December 9, 1977.
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: June, 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
(a) Before negotiations, bids on about half the project roads were
evaluated to verify that there is adequate participation and
competition among contractors to obtain, inter alia, competitive
prices and to firm up project cost estimates.
(b)  The Departme..t of High-ways has had a good record in project
implementation in the past. However, a detailed implementa-
tion schedule covering all aspects of the project and arrange-
ments for reporting progress had been drawn up and agreed to
by the Government and DOH during negotiations.
(c) A Bank Supervision Mission is scheduled mid-1978.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, the main agreements reached between the
Government and the Bank are:
(a) tolls will not be introduced on any sections of the project roads
without prior agreement with the Bank on the basis of economic and
financial evaluations (para. 36).
(b) construction of a satisfactory road link between Bang Bua Thong and
Thon Buri/Bangkok; and completion of paving of the Chana-Thepa-
Patthani Road (para. 43);
(c) carrying out an eight-year program of maintenance of the national
highways and provincial roads, in accordance with the recommendations
of the Maintenance Study, including making adequate arrangements for
the timely provisions of funds and resources required for that
purpose; setting up a revolving fund for financing the future
replacement of equipment as it becomes worn out and for the purchase
of spare parts (para. 44);
(d) make available the right-of-way on each road section in time for
awarding a contract for construction (para. 62).






.                           j \               ~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ,-N 
M9S1Xt. t T h ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRA I LAND\-S  
4 aeHonSo\ ;d1 5t?\,/>             X JC \ LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATC RFPUBLC                                      ^ MB             D 
Ch M ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
,WJ       \       8 ~~tJ                      T    :ns                                                                :   0             ;
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~M Ch dll                                                                                                         TnALAN \] 2-e )9 2         );       fX
_   D1t;ph                                                                      8(                                            an        CAMM_OD  .7 
tr;>    ~       Ma ' no ' n    \0  LA PEPE DEOCA C REUBCC 
SM      SkJ~~M                                                                                                                                       MA ARSA
-T4   i                                                                                                                                                                          WI An0
a                                                  TM
THAILAND
NATIK4IIGHWAY AND
P..  ~ ~ ~ ~~POINCIAL ROAD NETWORKS
----   MATSONLAI.JAYAS ADNAM OONSTAJ-IO  C ROSE
:   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PSet i455CMe . 
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~XfT.M-lL.V                                                                          -  S S   r    TH  
oNSmUTSM. AND SMPMAMMAMENC  T               TH
MTDY AN DPPeAGtSMESNA          I fiEn P-SOnMI T4
-z'                                                           ONSPTR CT ION AND MPDAV  E MIT  S SSiS P,njept -AN
,Xtp g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A}   XSin6LDLH9 WAYS                                                                       Z_
S) Th--                                    RIVEF~~~~MOMNMDJMDM- 
Iep-r   _Ranong                                            OP  _ _ ATICiSAL AOUNDAMERON
aAoaPD  lSaG - PR .OV S N   lis   .na,A ZAnMonAA31T
0 J 0 D2{ Balidu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nl    - SM,notS tIDENGhEIt |MEfthP MOAAOnMI,M
= c . =. =   :   teR A iJ 7   JSio  U; i f ^ R N   R                                     A             MS          tAD                         A 
A s A Y S I A
k7 ~     ~       ~       ~              t     D      i     U     ishs            :                          n   e*_FtsiiEtdthemto  ^5   h 



