Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7529-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 68.1 MILLION
(US$85 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
1'O
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
April 23, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - Decemnber 31
CURRENCY E UIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effectivc as of Mar:h 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Divai
LC = US$0.0l44
US$1   = 69.19YUM)
WEIGHITS AND MEASITRES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONMIS
BRA      Bank Rehabilitation Agency                 MOFE    Ministry of Finance aud Economy
DEM      German Mark                                MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
EAR      European Agency for Restructuring          NBY      National Bank of Yugoslavia
ECA      Europe and Central Asia                    PA       Privatization Agency
EFF      Exiended Fund Facility                     PBU      Problem Bank Unit
EPS      Electric Power Industry of Serbia          PSD      Private Sector Development
EC       European Commission                        SAA      Stabilization and Association Agreerent
EU       European Union                             SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment                  SBA      Stand-by Arrangement
FL4S     Foreign Investment Advisory Service        SDP      Standard Disbursement Percentage
FRY      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia             SDR      Special Drawing Right
FSD      Financial Sector Development               SEE      Southeast Europe
FSU      Formner Soviet Union                       SFRY     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP      Gross Domnestic Product                    SME      Small and Medium Enterprise
IAS      International Accounting Standards         SOE      Socially Onued Enterprises
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and  TA       Technical Assistance
Development                                TSS     'Transitional Support Sirategy
IDA      lnternational Development Association      UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
IMF      International Monetarv Fund                WTO      World Trade Organization
MOEP     MAinistry of Economy and Privatization     YUD      Yugoslavia Dliars
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Christiaan Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director:  Paul Siegelbaum, ECSPF
Sector Manager: Ira Lieberman/Khaled Sherif, ECSPF
Team Leader: Itzhak Goldberg (PSD), ECSPF
Gerardo Corrochano (FSD), ECSPF



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amount:                   SDR 68.1 million (US$85 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Modified IDA terms with a 20-year maturity, including a 10-year
grace period.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(PFSAC) will support the governments of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (FRY) and its largest constituent republic, the
Republic of Serbia, in the implementation of financial and
enterprise sector reforms seeking to significantly accelerate
private sector-led growth through: (i) strengthening the financial
system by liquidating troubled banks and improving the
environment under which banks operate; (ii) privatizing and
restructuring socially owned enterprises that crowd out private
sector growth, hamper banking sector recovery, and incur
significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs; and (iii) improving the
investment climate and business enabling environment.
Benefits:                 Implementation of continued structural reforms in the enterprise
and financial sectors under this operation will enhance Serbia's
prospects for growth, and will reinforce the sustainability of its
macroeconomic stabilization. The main benefit of the proposed
credit would be faster private sector growth and job creation,
supported by a healthier and more developed financial system.
Risks:                    A significant risk to the proposed PFSAC is the global economic
downturn that could deter the potential private capital inflows to
Serbia, affecting the success of the tender and auction
privatization. Additional risks could arise from what is perceived
by prospective investors as continued political instability in the
Balkan region. The operation also faces the risk of conflict
within the present governing coalition that could eventually
weaken the political commitment to launch and implement the
liquidation of large loss making enterprises and insolvent banks,
many of which are politically/socially sensitive because of their
importance to the economy as a whole and their potential social
and  fiscal costs.   Finally, the  legacy  of enterprise
self-management and the evolving nature of the FRY and Serbian
legal systems could present an opportunity for political



opposition and legal challenges to key reforms supported by
PFSAC (e.g., enterprise privatization).
Schedule of Disbursements:  The full credit is expected to be disbursed by July 2002.
Poverty Category:         Not applicable.
Project ID Number:        YU-PE-P074486
Map                       IBRD No. 31506
This operation was prepared by a team including Itzhak Goldberg (PSD Team Leader), Gerardo
Corrochano (FSD Team Leader), Irina Astrakhan, Robert Gourley, Alexander Pankov, Nancy
Vandycke, James R. Dick Welch (ECSPF); Lajos Bokros (ECAVP); Laura Ard (BFR); Igor
Artemiev (PSASP); Peter Kyle (LEGPS); Walter Zunic (Consultant); Andrew Lovegrove (UK
DFID). Legal and Disbursement support were provided by Gennady Pilch (LEGEC) and Joseph
Formoso (LOAGI). The peer reviewers were John Nellis (Consultant) and Olivier Godron
(MNCMA).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  INTRODUCTION ...............................1
A. Macroeconomic Situation ...............................1
B. Recent Progress in Structural Reforms ...............................3
C. The Bank's Support Strategy ...............................4
if.   THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM      .6
A. Banking Sector Reform                         .6
B. Enterprise Sector Reform .11
C. Linkages Between Bank and Enterprise Reforms .17
D. Banking Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework .19
E. Business Environment Reform .23
Ill. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .26
A. Project Implementation .27
B. Coordination with the IMF and Donors .28
C. Poverty Implications / Social Impact .28
D. Environmental Ipact .29
IV. BENEFITS AND RiSKS .29
A. Benefits .29
B. Risks .30
C. Lessons Leamt from Past Bank Operations .30
V. RECOMMENDATION .32
ANNEXES
Annex 1     FRY at a Glance
Annex 2     Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3     Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 4     Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 5     Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6     Policy Action Matrix
MAP         IBRDNo. 31506






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(FRY) in the amount of SDR 68.1 million (US$85 million equivalent).' The Credit would be on
modified IDA terms with a final maturity of 20 years and a grace period of 10 years2 and would
be disbursed in one tranche immediately after credit agreement effectiveness.
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.     Macroeconomic Situation
2.     FRY and Serbia began the renewed transition to democracy and a market economy under
very difficult economic and social conditions. These conditions result from nearly four decades of
inefficient economic management and a decade of regional conflicts and international isolation
that followed the break-up of SFRY in 1991.
3.    In less than one and a half years, the FRY and Serbian governments have taken impressive
steps to address this daunting legacy of the past. This has involved a two-pronged approach
combining immediate stabilization measures with first steps in an agenda of structural reforms
aimed at accelerating the long delayed transition. This section describes the stabilization measures
and their initial impact on Serbian economy.3 The initial progress in structural reforms is covered
in the next sections.
4.     The authorities began their stabilization efforts in late-2000 by tightening macroeconomic
policies, first through their own efforts and later with the support of the IMF's Emergency Post-
Conflict Facility approved in December 2000, and Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) approved in June
2001.4 The consolidated cash-based budget was balanced through a combination of expenditure
and revenue measures. The National bank of Yugoslavia (NBY)shifted to giving almost no credits
to the budget or to enterprises, and unified the exchange rate at the highly depreciated market rate
' FRY was formed in 1992 out of the Republics of Serbia and Montenegro as the former Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia (SFRY) was breaking up in civil conflict. Serbia, the largest of the two republics, accounts for some
95 percent of the population and share of GDP.
2 Modified IDA terms for FRY were agreed by the Board in the context of the discussion of FRY's membership
and the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy on July 26, 2001.
3 Due to the highly devolved nature of the Yugoslav federation (most areas of economic policy are in the
competence of the republics), Serbia and Montenegro have experienced the different starting points, needs and pace
of reforms. Moreover, many recent reforms initiated at the federal level and implemented by the federal institutions
such as the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA), etc. have direct impact on
Serbia only. Montenegro has pursued a separate privatization and banking reform program which differs
significantly from the one supported by this operation.
4 At present, discussions between the IMF and FRY authorities on a three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) are
underway.



of 30 Yugoslav dinars per DEM. The dinar was then made convertible for current account
transactions.
5.    These policies have already brought visible improvements to key economic indicators, and
have begun to create the foundations for a more sustained economic recovery of output and
improved living standards. As in many other ECA countries, the most visible initial changes were
exchange rate stability and reduced inflation. Following a pre-election burst of public spending
and the freeing of prices in October 2000, inflation jumped to over 20 percent per month, resultinig
in an annual rate of 115 percent in 2000. In 2001, this rate has declined by two-thirds to 40
percent, with core inflation tentatively estimated at about 15-20 percent. By end-2002, inflation is
targeted to decline to 20 percent.
6.    Real GDP growth shifted from the highly negative rates of 1999 to 5 percent in 2000, and
to an estimated 6 percent in 2001. Growth in 2001 has been driven by strong recovery of the
agricultural sector from the severe drought of 2000. In contrast, the industrial sector, which
accounts for around 35 percent of GDP, is likely to contract by around 1 percent in 2001. This
reflects the onset of a transitional recession resulting from shifts in relative prices and the
establishment of harder budget constraints. Real GDP is projected to grow by 4 percent in 2002,
with the assumption that normal agricultural output will be largely offset by renewed industrial
growth of 4 to 5 percent.
7.    With regard to foreign trade, following a 18.6 percent increase (in US dollar terms) in
2000 (mostly driven by a rebound from the lows of the Kosovo conflict), exports are expected to
increase by a further 6.6 percent in 2001. In 2001, imports are expected to grow by a much more
robust 22 percent (in US dollar terms), primarily reflecting the greater provision of donor
financing, particularly for energy and essential consumer imports. The higher growth of imports
than exports led to a slight increase in the current account deficit from 4.2 percent of GDP in 2000
to an expected 5 percent in 2001. As of end-November 2001, gross official reserves amounted to
about US$ 1.1 billion, having more than doubled from end-2000.
8.    Overall budget performance improved in early 2001, but the underlying fiscal position
remained precarious. The FRY fiscal deficit in 2001 is estimated at about 2.4 percent of GDP,
compared with an original program target of 6.1 percent and a revised target of 4.0 percent of
GDP in 2001. This fiscal over-performance is mostly due to higher than programmed revenue at
both federal and republican levels, as well as containment of spending below programmed levels
in light of delays in foreign financing and servicing of foreign debt. For 2002, the authorities
expect the fiscal deficit in FRY to rise to 6.2 percent of GDP, reflecting mainly a shift forward in
financing and associated spending originally planned for 2001.
9.    Progress toward resolving the issue of external debt has also gained momentum in the
past few months. In November 2001, an agreement was reached on the restructuring of US$5.4
billion of Paris Club debt (roughly 40 percent of total external debt), involving a phased 66
percent reduction in the net present value of obligations and a rescheduling of the remaining
stock over 22 years with a six-year grace period. Negotiations to secure a debt restructuring
agreement with London Club creditors are underway, with the authorities aiming for terms
broadly similar to those granted by the Paris Club.
2



B.    Recent Progress in Structural Reforms
10.   The second pillar of initial efforts of the Federal and Serbian governments was the
initiation of structural and institutional reforms across a wide front. These reforms, some of
which were included in the IMF arrangements, were implemented while simultaneously
addressing two other difficult challenges - meeting the urgent humanitarian needs exacerbated
by a decade of warfare and sanctions, and achieving a rapid reintegration into the international
community (including membership in most major international organizations).
11.   The initial measures in areas covered by the PFSAC are described in great detail in
Section II below. They include the resolution of insolvent banks, start of a multi-track
privatization program, and early efforts to improve the regulatory framework for banking and
enterprise sectors. In addition, the Federal and Serbian governments have made particularly
important progress in the following areas:
* Price Liberalization. In the autumn of 2000, the Serbian Government freed most market
prices, leaving a small set of controls similar to that in other ECA countries. The
resulting (often several fold) price increases quickly restored balance to product markets
and worked to improve incentives, at the cost of further straining the living standards of
the most needy. Remaining controlled prices have been raised closer to cost-recovery
levels, including more than doubling of power prices during 2001, higher natural gas and
district heating prices, and higher pharmaceuticals prices.
* Foreign Trade Reform. The new Federal Government inherited a highly distorted
foreign trade regime, which also hampered revenue collection and created a fertile
ground for corruption. Since December 2000, the Federal Government moved to
suppress the most egregious administrative controls, drastically simplified the tariff
regime, removed almost all foreign trade licenses, and limited the use of quotas. In
addition, it has reformed customs and taken other measures to limit corruption and
smuggling.
* Public Expenditure Reform. Throughout the last decade, fiscal sustainability was under
threat from large quasi-fiscal deficits, which were the result not only of inappropriate
sectoral policies, but also of distorted and inefficient public expenditure management
mechanisms. The new Serbian Government, with the Bank's assistance, initiated reforms
aimed at better aligning budget commitments with available resources, and ensuring more
transparent and efficient use of public and donor resources. To this end, the recently
approved Law on the Budget System will: (i) lay the basis for establishing a more
consolidated and comprehensive medium-term framework for budget preparation; (ii)
improve budget execution through the introduction of a Treasury system; and (iii)
enhance the transparency of the budget through enhanced inspection, auditing and
procurement procedures. The Serbian MOFE has also completed the comprehensive
inspection of public spending by all major Republican-level agencies.
3



* Tax Reform. The new Serbian Government inherited a highly complex tax regime, with
around 250 different taxes and levies. In the first half of 2001, it successfully
implemented a bold tax reform which sharply cut the number of taxes and levies,
widened the tax base, and thus allowed a lowering of key tax rates. All of these measures
will work to improve incentives, enhance revenue collections and reduce possibilities for
arbitrary application and corruption. The government is now taking further steps towards
tax system modernization by preparing a law on tax administration and by introducing
revisions to excise laws, personal income tax and a value-added tax (the latter by 2003).
* Energy Sector Reform. These are critical for addressing the single largest past source of
quasi-fiscal liabilities in the form of chronic losses of key utilities. To this end, the
government has begun a phased program of revenue and cost containment measures to
return the Serbian electricity utility EPS to financial self-sufficiency. It has also
commenced other reforms to reduce energy demand, reduce costs by increasing
productivity, and improve the efficiency of energy use. In Serbia, electricity prices were
increased during 2001 by a cumulative odd-150 percent, which should reduce the losses
of EPS by over US$300 million, or over 3 percent of GDP.
* Social Protection and Labor Market Reforms. The unsustainable social protection
system and overly rigid labor market framework have been a particularly large source of
fiscal risks, and more recently, represented a major obstacle to the re-alignment of the
economy towards private sector led growth. Government's reform of pension system,
which includes raising the retirement age and modifying the pension indexation formula,
will work to better cushion the impact of adjustment on the poorest members of society
and to place these benefits on a more sustainable financial footing. At the same time,
recent reforms of labor markets, as summarized in the recently passed new labor law and
the proposed employment law, are expected to reduce quasi-fiscal pressures by removing
structural impediments to cost containment in the enterprise sector and budget
institutions. Supported by the Bank, these measures will also provide an impetus to
growth in private sector employment by increasing flexibility in the labor market.
C.    The Bank's Support Strategy
12.   In October 2000, the new FRY authorities opened dialogue with the Bank on membership
and resolution of FRY's substantial arrears to IBRD. After fulfilling the relevant conditions, on
May 8, 2000, FRY resumed its membership in the Bank. At the same time, the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors endorsed a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS),5 which set out a plan to
resolve FRY's IBRD arrears and establishes temporary IDA eligibility for FRY on an
exceptional basis6. Up to US$540 million in IDA resources are allocated over the FY'02-FY'04
period, with actual lending to be deternined based on policy performance.
13.   As presented in the TSS, the proposed Bank program foresees up to 80 percent of
commitments in the form of adjustment credits supporting critical policy reforms towards four
5 Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy (Final), May 8, 2001 (Report number R2001-0049,/i).
6 On January 8, 2002 FRY's arrears were cleared with the effectiveness of a package of six Consolidation Loans
(Loan Nos. 7086-YF to 7091 -YF)
4



objectives: (i) restoring macroeconomic sustainability and external balance; (ii) stimulating
near-term growth and creating the basis for a sustainable supply response; (iii) improving social
well-being of the most vulnerable and building human capacity; and (iv) improving governance
and building effective institutions. The Bank's FY'02 program is primarily aimed at dealing with
the first two objectives of the TSS and includes the first SAC designed to address the fiscal risks
to macroeconomic stability7, and the proposed PFSAC which will support transition reformns in
private and financial sector development. These two operations (designed to lend early support
to an already substantial reform program) should lay the foundations for follow-up operations in
FY'03 and '04, which can in turn reinforce the reforms being initiated now.8 While not strongly
linked to this operation, and therefore not specifically discussed in this report, it is worth noticing
that the government has also made substantial progress in achieving the TSS benchmarks
associated to social sustainability and improved governance.
14.    As stated, the Bank's TSS identifies the stimulation of near-term    growth as one of key
challenges facing the FRY authorities on a path to a market economy. To promote private sector-
led growth, the federal and republican governments have initiated a wide range of structural and
institutional reforms. The proposed PFSAC will support Serbia's financial and enterprise sector
reforms seeking to significantly accelerate private sector growth through: (i) strengthening the
financial system by liquidating troubled banks and improving the environment under which banks
operate; (ii) privatizing and restructuring socially owned enterprises that crowd out private sector
growth, hamper banking sector recovery, and incur significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs; and
(iii) improving the business enabling environment.
15.    The proposed operation will address the immediate challenges of FRY's structural reform
agenda and is expected to be followed by a second PFSAC in FY'039. The initial technical
assistance for the credit is being provided by a Technical Assistance Grant for Private Sector
Development and another one for Financial Sector Development (US$ 6.0 million each, June
2001), as well as by a US$ 814,000 Japanese Trust Fund Grant. The main objective will be to
foster private sector growth and job creation, supported by a healthier and more developed
financial system. The proposed credit will be conditioned on specific reforrn efforts in the
following five areas: (i) Banking Sector Reform; (ii) Reform of Socially Owned Enterprises
(SOEs); (iii) Bank Assets and Enterprise Workouts; (iv) Financial Sector Regulatory and
Supervisory Framnework; and (v) Business Environment Reforn.
7 SAC I was approved by the Board on January 29, 2001 (Report number P-7494-YU).
8 The Bank's structural reforn assistance program for 2001-2002 is being designed around republic-specific
operations. The Republic of Montenegro is expected to be the recipient of a separate SAC addressing both fiscal
sustainability and private sector development issues, also scheduled for 2002.
9 The option of a two-tranche operation was discussed at length during credit preparation, in view of legitimate
concerns that some key reform actions would not be completed by the time of operation's approval. In particular,
the proposed conditions on tender privatizations represents a step along the way to sale rather than sales themselves,
thus creating a risk of Government's backtracking similar to what the Bank has experienced in other ECA countries.
However, the Serbian and FRY authorities have already established a credible track record in both enterprise and
financial sector reforms since taking office about a year and a half ago. Moreover, because the still fluid political
situation in FRY, the team considered that it would at this stage be inadvisable to agree on precise conditions of
release of a second tranche. Instead, the operation outlines an envisioned framework of medium-term reforms that
would constitute the basis of a follow up PFSAC II (expected in the second half of FY03), thus providing greater
flexibility to perform the anticipated mid-course corrections in the program (e.g., in the area of enterprise
restructuring).
5



16.   The design of this operation incorporates the lessons from structural reforns in the ECA
region during the past decade. World Bank experience has shown that an integrated approach is
needed to reform the private and financial sectors. Under the proposed operation, financial sector
reforms are expected to boost financial internediation, and encourage domestic savings,
generating the much needed working capital and investment finance needed for the real sector to
expand. At the same time, the privatization/liquidation of state-owned enterprises and new entry
of firms supported by the business-enabling environment, are expected to lay the basis for
sustainable growth. At the interface between private and financial sector reforms, the asset
resolution/debt workout component will deal with interrelated issues of the banking system
weakness and loss-making enterprises.  Very importantly, the proposed operation will be
sequenced with the government's ongoing efforts, supported by the Bank and other donors, to
provide adequate social protection for those displaced by restructuring and privatization (see
Figure 1).
Figure 1: Structure of Proposed PFSAC
Bank and            Banking            Bank Assets /         Reform of
Enterprise           Sector             Enterprise        Socially-Owned
Sector               Reform              Workouts           Enterprises
Reforms
Regulatoryl            Financial Sector               Business
Institutional            Regulatory                 Environment
Environment              Framework                     Reform
17.   The subsequent sections of this report describe the government's short- to medium-term
structural and legislative/institutional reform program in the five policy areas included under the
proposed PFSAC. In each case, attention is given to the latest developments and pending issues
that are considered crucial to the overall policy framework of the proposed operation. The
attached Policy Matrix (Annex 6) presents the key policy actions that will be undertaken by the
government prior to the credit's approval by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.
II.   THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A.    Banking Sector Reform
18.   The present condition of FRY's financial system reflects the extreme conditions of
interference and instability under which it operated during the last decade. Pervasive defaults
and widespread arrears, aggravated by economic sanctions, resulted in significant portions of the
banks' assets being either immobile or non-performing. Mismanagement of the largest banks
6



served directed credit decisions and was exacerbated by the ownership or control exercised over
these banks by some of the large and troubled SOEs.
19.    The size, level of intermediation and overall significance of the banking system steadily
suffered during the 1990s. Total banking system assets declined by more than one quarter since
1994 to an estimated DEM 23 billion in 2000. Excluding some DEM 7.4 billion of foreign
exchange deposits that have been frozen mainly in the largest state banks since 1991, deposits in
the banking system stood at less than DEM 100 per capita by end-2000, one the lowest figures
recorded in the region. Deposit interest rates have remained negative in real terms and
discouraged domestic savings. Large spreads ranging from 10 to 25 percent are translated into
high lending rates and have resulted in a broad crowding out effect. It can also be argued that the
condition and abuses committed in the banking sector have contributed to the increasing
presence of non-payments, barter agreements, and inter-company arrears.
20.    Following the 2000 elections, the new FRY Government decided that getting the right
policies to restructure the financial sector at an early stage in FRY's transition was an utmost
priority that needed to be pursued without delay. Under the leadership of the NBY, the
authorities took decisive steps to assess the conditions of troubled banks10 and effectively
launched the implementation of a comprehensive banking sector reform program. At the core of
this strategy is a far reaching banking resolution strategy that attempts to eliminate the deep
insolvency of the system, reestablish public confidence and adequate intermediation, and attract
new capital into what is envisioned to be a privately-owned modem banking system. It is fair to
say that, following a year-long process of planning and preparation, the bold steps taken in early
2002 that have resulted in the closure of the largest four state banks can be considered of an
unprecedented nature in the region, and demonstrated the far reaching deternination of the FRY
authorities to reform the financial sector. Resolution efforts are also being accompanied by
improvements in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the banking system and an
aggressive program of institution building at the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA).
21.    Restructuring of the banking sector represents a significant challenge to the FRY
authorities. Not only the starting conditions are particularly difficult, but the insolvency of most of
the banking sector (including all of the largest banks) is coupled by the insolvency of most large
enterprises. Yet, structural reforms in the financial and enterprise sectors are a crucial part of a
broader effort of the FRY authorities to promote fiscal sustainability and eliminate macroeconomic
imbalances, and therefore are being pursued without delay.
10 In order to gain an insight into the financial situation of the banking sector, the NBY, with the help of
international accounting firms carried out two detailed diagnostic reviews of the banking industry in 2001. The first
review was carried out in early 2001 (based on December 31, 1999 data) and covered practically all the banks
licensed by the NBY. Based on their solvency, liquidity, and systematic importance, the banks were classified in
categories A to D. During March -April 2001, in consultation with IFIs and with substantial assistance from
USAID, the NBY further examined 28 banks categorized insolvent (C and D) and prepared diagnostic reports based
on December 31, 2000 data. According to these reviews, around 90 percent of the banking sector was determined
insolvent. After proper reclassification of the financial statements and adequate recognition of losses, the financial
status of most of the large state banks appeared to be critical, both from a liquidity and solvency standpoint.
7



22.   Government's Strategy.   Since the beginning of 2001, the FRY authorities have
progressed from stock-taking, to planning, and then to launching the most significant parts of an
ambitious financial sector reform program. The main components of the program have been
well articulated and the development of linkages of the banking sector reforms to the enterprise
restructuring and privatization strategy is well underway. Substantial institution building has
taken place both at the NBY and the BRA, supported by a well structured donor technical
assistance program (primarily USAID, US Treasury and UK DFID) and by a Technical
Assistance grant from the Bank"1. The key components of the financial sector reform program
include:
*  implementation of a rapid clean up of the banking system by closing and liquidating all
insolvent and undercapitalized banks;
*  development of the BRA as an efficient mechanism for liquidating banks assets;
*  implementation of a social support program to mitigate the impact of lay-offs;
*  encouragement of the entry of foreign banks;
*  improvements to bank supervision and regulation;
*  development of an explicit strategy to deal with the linkages of the bank reform program to
the enterprise restructuring and privatization.
23.   Closure and Liquidation of Insolvent Banks.  As previously stated, considerable
progress was made in the implementation of all of the above-mentioned components of the
program. While the authorities launched the liquidation of a number of small and almost
completely inactive banks since mid-2001, particular emphasis was given to a detailed analysis
of the costs of resolving the four largest banks. This analysis included a comprehensive
assessment of the impact of the various resolution scenarios ranging from rehabilitation to
outright closure and liquidation. Drawing on the results of the supervisory diagnostics, the
analysis incorporated the costs of rehabilitating the four largest banks so that they could comply
to regulatory minimums, remain viable and not accumulate further losses, and be reasonable
good prospects for immediate privatization. As expected, and despite taking into account
potential benefits to the banks financial statements of a significant reductions in foreign
liabilities, the main conclusion of the analysis was that the only feasible route to address the
problem of insolvency of the large banks was their liquidation as the costs of rehabilitation were
excessively high, and their sustainability hardly demonstrable.
24.   The decision to close the largest banks was coupled by the recognition that these banks
had ceased to play an important role in financing the economy, and that the systemic impact of
their closure would be limited. The decision was also driven by the inability and unwillingness
of the FRY and Serbian governments to provide the necessary resources to support the banks'
minimum liquidity, let alone resources to resume lending. Moreover, it was recognized that: (i)
the banks had only limited payments functions which could be assumed by other healthy banks,
(ii) the costs of compensating depositors and staff of the banks was very low when compared to
the costs of rehabilitation; and (iii) even if recapitalized, the institutional weaknesses and
11 The Bank's Financial Sector TA Grant is currently under implementation. The project aims primarily at
supporting the BRA to carry forward the liquidation and divestiture of all insolvent banks selected for restructuring.
8



nonexistent franchise value of the banks would have made them extremely unattractive
candidates for future privatization.
Table 1: Restructuring of the Serbian Banking System
(In thousand of US$, September 2001)
All banks            Banks in liquidation     Remaining banks
(as of January 2002)
Assets
Liquid Assets                           1,341,775              531,153    39%               810,622
Loans                                   5,353,775             3,935,399   74%              1,418,377
Frozen Foreign Exchange Bonds           2,190,460             1,149,439   52%              1,041,020
Investments                               355,969              200,200    56%               155,769
Fixed & Other Assets                      794,115              316,164    40%               477,951
Total Assets                           10,036,094             6,132,356  61%               3,903,739
Off Balance Sheet Assets                6,296,516             5,146,944   82%              1,149,572
Liabilities & Capita1
Deposits                                1,658,138              692,459    42%               965,679
Borrowings                              4,912,320             4,215,801   86%               696,520
Frozen Foreign Exchange Deposits        2,296,964             1,195,360   53%              1,101,604
Provisions                              3,957,390             3,740,537   95%               216,853
Other Liabilities                         366,054              153,123    42%               212,931
Total Liabilities                      13,190,866             9,997,279  76%               3,193,586
Capital                                 -3,154,771            3,864,924                     710,152
Total Liabilities & Equity             10,036,094             6,132,356  61%               3,903,739
Off Balance Sheet Liabilities           6,296,516             5,146,944   82%              1,149,572
25.     The determination and speed of reform      in the financial sector have yielded impressive
results (see Tables 1 and 2). By the first quarter of 2002, nearly one year after the planning stage
of the program started, the FRY authorities have: (i) initiated liquidation proceedings for the
four largest banks in Serbia and for 19 small to medium-sized insolvent banks -- together
representing 61 percent of the assets and 82 percent of the off-balance sheet assets of the banking
system; (ii) issued rehabilitation decrees'2 putting five banks under the administration of the
BRA for assessing their restructuring and privatization, or liquidation; (iii) placed one bank
under the administration of NBY's Problem Bank Unit; and (iv) given four solvent but
undercapitalized banks until end-2002 to meet minimum capital standards.
26.     Enhanced Framework for Bank Resolution.               On the regulatory and institutional
development side, the government strategy called for important changes to enhance the
framework for bank resolution. In September 2001, under the leadership of the NBY, the legal
framework for bank resolution was modified to make the BRA the mandatory receiver for bank
liquidations. In parallel, and with the assistance of major donors, the staffing of NBY's
supervision and problem bank units was increased and trained. Likewise, in close coordination
with the Bank, substantial efforts were made to enhance the capabilities of the BRA.
12 The rehabilitation decrees are in accordance with the Federal Law on Bankruptcy, Liquidation and Rehabilitation
of Banks. Through these decrees, the NBY presented arguments demonstrating the extensive insolvency of the
banks, wiped-out their existing equity, and placed the banks under the administration of the BRA.
9



Table 2: Current Structure of the New Serbian Banking System
(In Thousand of US$, January 2002)
Rehabilitation / NBY   Under-      Total "Problem"     Healthy
Problem Unit      capitalized       Banks           Banks
Number of Banks                        6                4              10              38
Assets
Liquid Assets                              69,718        26,980            96,698       713,924
Loans                                     127,580        77,937           205,517      1,212,859
Frozen Foreign Exchange Bonds             150,207         4,258           154,464       886,556
Investments                                 5,676        10,343            16,019       139,750
Fixed & Other Assets                       33,366        23,684            57,050       420,901
Total Assets                              386,547       143,201           529,748      3,373,990
OffBalance Sheet Assets                   160,153        19,119           179,272       970,300
Liabilities & Capital
Deposits                                   54,932        29,234            84,166       881,513
Borrowings                                134,877        62,978           197,855       498,664
Frozen Foreign Exchange Deposits          149,906         4,473           154,380       947,224
Provisions                                 29,871         4,627            34,498       182,354
Other Liabilities                          16,384         4,608            20,992       191,939
Total Liabilities                         385,971       105,921           491,892      2,701,695
Capital                                      576         37,281            37,856       672,296
Total Liabilities & Equity                386,547       143,201           529,748      3,373,990
Off Balance Sheet Liabilities             160,153        19,119           179,272       970,300
27.     Medium-term     Reform    Objectives.     In the medium     term  the authorities intend to
complete the restructuring and privatization of the banking system and further strengthen the
institutional capacity and governance of the institutions responsible for the banking sector. In
general, medium-term reforms efforts in bank resolution are expected to redefine and minimize
the level and type of state intervention in the financial sector, making it more transparent, and a
catalyst for prudent lending and competition. In brief, during the next one and a half years, these
measures will include:
(a)   by September-2002, implementation of the resolution or privatization process for the
four small banks under the control of the BRA;
(b)   by September-2002, initiation of the resolution or privatization process for the two
remaining undercapitalized large banks (Vojvodjanska Banka and Borska Banka);
(c)   by end-2002, definition of independent governance arrangements for banks with
direct or indirect majority state ownership, including the recently established
National Savings Bank;
(d)   by end-2003, privatization of most banks with direct or indirect majority state
ownership, including banks referred to in items a, b, and c above.
10



28.   In addition to these measures, there is also a need to redefine the mechanisms of bank
resolution. While 2001 can be labeled as an exceptional year due to the deep level of insolvency
of the system that was inherited from the past, it is also recognized that existing laws and
institutions associated with bank failures are seen as synonyms for state support to failed banks.
In this regard, keeping banks open in the status of rehabilitation has the potential to increase the
costs of failure and undermines the credibility of the NBY as a supervisor. In order to address
these issues, and make the resolution process more efficient and transparent, changes in the
rehabilitation law will be sought to limit the use of state-sponsored bank rehabilitation as an option
in resolving problem banks. This will encourage banks to seek private-sector sources of
recapitalization at an early date or restructure themselves under direct NBY supervision, rather
than defer action in the hope of receiving funds through the rehabilitation process. Furthermore, it
is envisioned that the future role of the BRA will be limited to acting as the administrator of
payments to insured depositors, and as the court-appointed bankruptcy trustee for banks. In brief,
during the next 12 to 18 months, these measures will include:
(a)  by end-2002, ensure that the BRA has adequate operational funding to carry out its
functions;
(b)  by March 2003, amend applicable laws to limit the use of bank rehabilitation to
exceptional circumstances that are economically justifiable; clarify the timeframe
available for recapitalization; evaluate the scope of the BRA activities; and reform the
governance of the BRA to include adequate representation of the banking sector, real
sector, and the fiscal authority; and
(c) by mid-2003, develop and commence implementation of a new deposit insurance
scheme, including an adequate financing plan to ensure its sustainability.
29.   Proposed PFSAC Program. The proposed operation will support: (i) ongoing reforms
aimed at the closure and liquidation of insolvent banks; and (ii) ongoing reforms aimed at the
improving the regulatory framework of bank resolution. Specifically, the PFSAC supports the
withdrawal of the four largest banks' licenses and entry of the banks into bankruptcy, followed
by the appointment of the BRA as its bankruptcy administrator. In addition, the credit will
support the completion of the resolution of additional 24 small and medium-sized banks found to
be insolvent that are presently under BRA/NBY control pending a decision regarding their
resolution (19 of which have already been put under bankruptcy, and another five banks have
been put under the BRA administration for either restructuring or liquidation). The credit will
also support NBY's program for four small solvent banks that are pending compliance with new
minimum capital requirements. Finally, the operation supports additional efforts to enhance the
regulatory framework of bank resolution, including the already implemented decision to allow
the BRA to act as the court-appointed bankruptcy trustee for banks.
B.    Enterprise Sector Reform
30.  As has been stated in the TSS, the real sector in Serbia is in very poor condition.
Although SFRY was more open to world markets than other East European economies, the
legacy of socialism left Serbia with an uncompetitive and inefficient enterprise sector while the
crisis of the past decade brought in its wake loss of markets and isolation from technological
advances. In particular, Yugoslavia has developed its own model of labor-managed firms, based
11



on "social" rather than state ownership; this ambiguous forn of ownership, which at the time
was considered by some as more efficient than state ownership, creates now legal obstacles to
the current ownership transformation effort. Although socially-owned enterprises have enjoyed
autonomy from the state, in a regime of "soft-budgets", the managers of unviable enterprises
have nevertheless grown accustomed to expect bailouts and continued financing from state
banks. The 1997 Serbian Privatization Law, which permitted the transfer of 60 percent of the
shares to employees free of charge, and to sell to employees another 30 percent at significant
discounts, entrenched the control of managers in enterprises privatized under this method.
31.   The lack of financial discipline has been evidenced by mounting stock of payment
arrears. The prevalent formns of budget softness were accumulation of bank arrears and
outstanding trade credit. During 2000, for instance, more than half of the firms had not paid their
suppliers, including the utilities, on time, and had their payment accounts with the Agency for
Accounts and Payments (ZOP) blocked. Moreover, the burden of keeping these enterprises alive
has been borne by state-owned banks and state-owned companies, including the utilities. Quasi-
fiscal liabilities, which these SOEs represent, have kept rising.
32.   Finally, the competition in the FRY industrial sector is held back by the legacy of the old
industrial structures (e.g., vertical integration in holding companies). Additional barriers to
competition are created by national or local governments "captured" by unrestructured large
companies. As shown by the experiences in other ECA countries, privatization and restructuring
of large enterprises is an important pre-requisite for enhanced competition.
33.   Government's Strategy. To address these problems, the government launched a
privatization and restructuring program, based on the new Law on Privatization which was
drafted with WB, EBRD and DFID help and adopted in June 200113. The main objective of this
Law, that sought to incorporate the lessons from experiences in other transition economies, is to
require enterprises to offer 70 percent of their available shares in each enterprise to a strategic
investor, using a competitive process. Under this approach, privatization is driven by the
interest of investors and the viability of the enterprises. As a result, the process is slower as it
depends to a large extent on market forces, in contrast to the mass voucher-based privatization
programs in most other countries in the region.
34.   The government's strategy faces four significant challenges in its implementation. First,
privatization in other ECA countries frequently produced poor corporate governance in the
privatized companies. Poor governance has been particularly problematic in the mass
privatization programs in the FSU and South-East Europe. The Serbian program has been
designed with the view to ensure better governance by offering the majority of shares to a
strategic investor who presumably has both the incentive and the authority to establish good
corporate governance. However, there is a certain risk that there will be little competition in the
auctions of companies and the current management, as the only bidder, will end up buying the
company. Experience shows that in management buyouts, buyers default frequently on the
13 The Government suspended the 1997 Serbian Privatization Law in February 2001. The former Federal Law on
Privatization (1996) was also put on hold by a special amendment passed by the Federal Parliament at the end of
2001.
12



installment payments and sometimes assume the liabilities without any real intention of repaying
them.
35.   Second, as mentioned above, the legacy of "social capital" provides managers of
enterprises with the power to block privatization. This power stems from the fact that the seller
in the sale of "social capital" is the enterprise itself and the General Assembly of the enterprise
needs to approve the sale. The just completed cement transactions prove that this problem can
be overcome when the management of the company cooperates with the Privatization Agency
(PA). In order to cope with the issue in circumstances in which the management is less than fully
cooperative, the government will submit to the Federal Parliament an amendment to the
Company Law which will permit the government to replace the management, if it refuses to
cooperate in the privatization process.
36.   The third challenge to enterprise reform is represented by the social consequences of
ownership transfer. While some of the enterprises can be sold "as is", many firms are unlikely to
attract strategic external investors without prior restructuring. These firms will only have a
chance to play a productive role in the restructured economy if they are reconfigured into smaller
and leaner parts. Clearly, the restructuring process requires dealing with labor redundancies and
redeployment, and the fiscal costs of severance and unemployment pay are expected to be high.
37.   Finally, since it will take a number of years to implement this strategy, it is important that
scarce government resources in the interim are not absorbed in subsidies to SOEs. Unless hard
budgets are imposed and payment obligations are enforced, there is likely to be a cascade of
arrears through the system, severely damaging many productive activities14. Imposing financial
discipline is best achieved through privatization and liquidation, and the strengthening and
enforcement of bankruptcy of SOEs which cannot be restructured. In addition, it should be
accompanied by structural reforms in the financial sector. Only an efficient financial sector is
capable of ensuring financial discipline and channeling resources towards good investment
opportunities. Practically, this means stopping direct political loans and allocating loans based
on rate-of-return considerations. The linkages with financial sector reforms will be crucial to
the success of privatization efforts.
38.   Privatization of Socially-Owned Enterprises. In recent months, the government has
made substantial progress in the implementation of the privatization/restructuring program (see
Box 1). The Ministry of Economy and Privatization (MOEP) is fully responsible for the
program and a Privatization Agency (PA) has been set up to implement it. The Law on
Privatization provides three methods to achieve the above mentioned objective: (i) privatization
tenders of large enterprises; (ii) auctions of medium enterprises; and (iii) restructuring and
subsequent tenders and/or auctions of large loss-making enterprises.
39.   Tender Privatization. This method is being used for companies that are sufficiently large,
important and attractive to justify a case-by-case approach for their privatization. In companies
selected for tenders, 70 percent of the available shares are offered for sale to a strategic investor,
15 percent are given free to employees/pensioners of the privatized enterprise, and 15 percent
14 SAC I will strengthen the financial discipline on the part of the utility companies through raising energy prices,
increasing collection rate and creating the threat of disconnect.
13



are transferred to a "Privatization Register". With technical assistance provided by the Bank's
PSD TA Grant, 28 companies have entered into contracts with investment banks that will
prepare them for sale to strategic foreign and domestic investors through an open, competitive,
international tender process. At least seven of the valuation and market assessment reports on
individual companies have been completed by the investment banks and final tender/sales
documents have been completed for four companies. In addition, using Dutch and Swedish
Trust Fund money, the PA will launch six more pools of enterprises for privatization (30
enterprises) in April 2002 by hiring additional investment banks and sales agents for their
privatization. The PA has also launched a number of privatizations of enterprises using its own
funds. In January 2002, the Agency successfully privatized the country's three cement plants
realizing nearly US$140 million from the sales by an open and competitive tender procedure.
More recently, the PA has hired investment banks and started the privatization of the country's
second gasoline and petroleum products network, Beopetrol and a paper producer, Bozotomic.
Box 1: Recent Pro2ress in the Serbian Privatization Prop-ram
Based on the strategy developed at the Privatization Seminar held by the World Bank for the new Government
in January 2001, a legal framework for privatization has been put in place and includes three laws, passed by the
Serbian Parliament on June 27, 2001. Four by-laws (decrees) have been approved in support of this legislation.
The privatization legislation has a number of innovative features, such as, out-of-court restructuring, a
requirement to offer majority control to buyers, detailed by-laws for auctions, tenders (case-by-case) and
restructuring privatization.
The Minister of Privatization and Economy has embarked on an extensive public education program on
television and in print and the PA has published a range of articles and support material to educate the public on
the ways and means of the privatization program. The PA has hired about 60 employees and the figure is likely
to grow to about 150 employees in 2002. Extensive donor support has been mobilized in support of many
elements of the privatization strategy.
The case-by-case privatization program, supported under the PSD TA Grant, was initiated by placing
advertisements for expressions of interest from investment banks and sales agents to undertake the privatizations
in the Financial Times and other media. Excellent response was obtained and investment banks were hired for
six pools representing 28 enterprises. Privatization plans will be ready by May 2002 for most of the companies
40.    Auction Privatization. Companies that are not sufficiently large or commercially
attractive to be sold under the tender process will be offered for sale through a public auction
process. This program started with the first pilot auctions conducted in early April 2002.
Based on the lessons from these pilot auctions, the government recently decided, in consultation
with the Bank, to adopt a series of steps to enhance the program's implementation. In particular,
these steps will: (i) rationalize and streamline the process for valuation of companies with the
help of external consultants; (ii) improve the information flow to potential buyers through a
concerted marketing effort; and (iii) mitigate the risks associated with the participation of local
investors in the auction process. To reduce the possibility that viable companies will not be sold
due to accumulated high volume of old debts, the government issued a decree in December
2001, which allowed all enterprises being sold by auction to remove from their books any tax
arrears incurred prior to December 31, 2000 as a step in the closing transaction. These arrears
will be settled out of the sales proceeds from privatization. As technical assistance for the
auctions has been limited to date, the MOEP will seek further support to strengthen the program.
14



In particular, additional technical assistance will be sought by the PA for the preparation of
information and valuation memoranda to expand the pipeline of companies offered for auctions.
After going through a number of pilot auctions, the government is committed to revising the
Decree on Auctions on the basis of lessons learned before the program accelerates in 2003/04.
41.   Restructuring for Privatization. The Privatization Law contains provisions that require
enterprises which cannot not be sold through auction or tender to undergo "restructuring for
privatization" (Article 19). This process will consist of three stages: (i) preparation of feasibility
and restructuring study, and "due diligence" report; (ii) implementation of the recommendations
from the feasibility stage regarding organizational and financial restructuring, including
segmentation (if necessary) of the company and incorporation of the new companies created
from the parts of the old one; (iii) sale of the new companies and of assets remaining after the
break up.
42.   The MOEP/PA has identified a list of some 40 large industrial conglomerates (henceforth
referred to as "systems") that will be subject to restructuring, before they or their successor parts
can be offered for sale by tender or auction, or, in some cases, liquidated. Most "systems" have
suffered from years of economic mismanagement, as can be seen from the chronic losses, high
level of indebtedness, and large excess capacity of both physical assets and labor. The
government's strategy includes labor shedding, as well as the sale of non-core assets, the
separation of viable from non-viable activities and debt workout. The technical assistance for
this procedure is currently a subject of discussion between the government and the donor
community. Several donors have indicated a willingness to fund advisors for the preliminary
stages of restructuring; however, to date, none has agreed to assist on all three stages of the
process. The Bank is in the process of preparing a new technical assistance loan designed to
provide the resources to both strengthen the capacity of the MOEP to manage the restructuring
process and to fund experts to help restructure and privatize a number of "systems".
43.   Credible Threat of Bankruptcy and Liquidation. The government has studied carefully
the experience throughout the region in establishing a credible bankruptcy regime, which has
mostly not been encouraging. In Russia, a new bankruptcy law based on a US model has been
adopted but the non-transparent selection of trustees and weak capacity in the courts have
undermnined the process. The Czech Republic and Slovakia are still dealing with the problem of
bad debts by selling off the debts of enterprises which were privatized a decade ago. In Croatia,
a new law based on the German model was adopted in the mid-1990s but few bankruptcies have
taken place. At the same time, Hungary was able to create a work-out regime whereby the
managers of enterprises were subject to severe sanctions if they did not assign their own
companies into bankruptcy. More recently, the Government of Macedonia has adopted a policy
of petitioning large numbers of large insolvent socially owned or state owned enterprises into
bankruptcy.
44.   Drawing on these lessons, the Federal Ministry of Justice and MOEP are actively
cooperating to draft a modern bankruptcy law. It is anticipated that the new law will be passed
by summer 2002.   The government recognizes though that a new Law is a necessary but
insufficient condition for an effective bankruptcy system.  As shown by the experiences
elsewhere in the region, building capacity in the courts and in the trustee community is a
prerequisite for a functioning bankruptcy process. The ongoing and planned technical assistance
15



from USAID supports the government's efforts towards building of institutional capacity to
implement the new bankruptcy law through the training of judges and bankruptcy administrators.
45.   The government also realizes that many of the enterprises offered for sale via auction and
many of those undergoing restructuring will find it difficult to attract investors. Most of these
enterprises are encumbered by significant debts to the MOF and to the BRA banks. As described
below, the PA and the BRA agreed that the BRA will not proceed with foreclosure and
bankruptcy petitions against enterprises to be restructured or offered for sale by tender by the PA
for a period of 18 months. However, enterprises remaining unsold at the end of this period will
be subject to enforcement and bankruptcy actions by the BRA. Although this period may be
extended, this arrangement creates a threat of collection actions which should encourage
managers to cooperate in preparation for auctions or restructuring.
46.   Mitigating the Social Costs of Privatization and Restructuring. An integral part of the
government's enterprise reform program will be to address the social impact of restructuring and
privatization. In particular, the break-up and preparation for sale of the large "systems", which
presently employ around 150,000 workers, are likely to entail major labor displacement.
Preliminary analysis by the PA suggests that overall labor redundancy in the "systems" is
substantial, and efforts are being coordinated between the relevant government agencies to
ensure that the detailed diagnostic for each enterprise identifies more precisely likely labor
retrenchment levels and the labor force profile. This will result in a labor redeployment
program as a key element of each system's restructuring plan, which will outline severance or
other packages for redundant workers and receive financing from the republican budget.
Development of the program will be coordinated with firm management and the relevant trade
unions.
47.   Firm specific programs would be guided by the policy framework outlined in the Serbian
Government's Social Program for employees dismissed during restructuring and privatization,
which was approved in March 2002. The Program is intended to provide a menu of
compensation and redeployment options for dismissed workers in the large SOEs. The
government intends to implement this program in a manner that is consistent with the fiscal
situation, conducive to successful restructuring and privatization, and does not exceed available
budgetary resources. The Program will also be reviewed periodically in light of ongoing reforms
in the labor relations framework.
48.   Medium-term Reform Objectives. The government will continue and expand the
tender privatization component of the privatization program. It is estimated that some 200
attractive large enterprises will be sold through this method. Following the amendments to the
Enterprise Law, amendments will be passed to the Privatization Law and the Decrees on
Auctions, Tenders and Restructuring to further strengthen the government's authority over the
privatization process and to prevent the managing bodies in socially owned companies from
obstructing this process. These amendments will incorporate the lessons from the initial
implementation period of auctions, tenders and restructuring. Furthermore, as part of the
package to amend the Privatization Law and related regulations, the government plans to address
the issue of assumption of liabilities for past environmental darnages.
16



49.   Having tested the auction program at the first series of auctions in April 2002, the
government is planning to accelerate the auction program and engage more companies into the
process. It is expected that by end-2002 100 enterprises currently in the auction pipeline will be
offered for sale. Although the overall target is to offer for sale 4,000 enterprises by end-2005, it
is expected that more than half will not find credible buyers and will have to be subject to
bankruptcy proceedings.
50.   Restructuring for Privatization.  Over the medium term, the MOEP will build the
institutional capacity to manage the "restructuring agents" - investment banks, consulting
companies, workout companies and other financial advisors - to implement each of the three
stages of restructuring.  It is expected that the government will initiate pre-privatization
restructuring of several large "systems" in the course of 2002. The planned technical assistance
loan by the Bank will provide financial resources to fund "restructuring agents" to implement
each of the three stages. Very importantly, as the restructuring process gets underway, the social
cost mitigation strategy outlined in the government's Social Program will be elaborated in
implementation action plans to give more specific guidance to firms, workers and public
agencies involved in labor retrenchment programs. Program implementation will take close
account of available public resources, and the evolving general entitlement framework for the
unemployed.
51.   Proposed PFSAC Program. The proposed credit will support ongoing reforms aimed at
the rapid divestiture of large and medium-sized SOEs through internationally accepted methods,
using best practices that ensure transparency, competitiveness, and appropriate sales techniques
for the companies being privatized. Twenty-eight companies in six pools will be contracted to
investment banks for privatization preparation and sale. In the immediate future, at least ten of
the valuation and market assessment reports on individual companies will be completed by the
investment banks. At the same time, nine smaller companies will be auctioned with the winning
bidder selected on the basis of price alone, and eight more enterprises will be announced for
auction on the basis of the same criteria.
52.   In addition, the operation will support the development of an improved legal and
institutional framework for enterprise privatization and restructuring. Amendments to the Law
on Enterprises will be submitted to Federal Parliament allowing the PA to intervene in cases
where the management and/or employees of enterprises seek to hinder the process of ownership
transformation. The credit will also support the drafting of a new insolvency law which will
allow the efficient liquidation of those enterprises which cannot be sold through the normal
privatization procedures. The operation will support the drafting of a strategy for enterprise
restructuring, including the prioritization and segmentation of the list of "systems" and further
strengthening of the restructuring departnent at MOEP/PA. Finally, the credit will help to start
addressing the issue of social impact of restructuring/liquidating the "systems" through definition
of a framework Social Program, which will be refined during implementation in light of the labor
situation in the "systems" and the budgetary resources available to address it.
C.    Linkages Between Bank and Enterprise Reforms
53.   Following the liquidation of the four major banks, the loans made by these banks to
enterprises represent the non-performing portfolio to be administered by the BRA in its capacity
17



of bankruptcy administrator. At the same time, the overdue loans burden the balance sheets of
the enterprises so that their restructuring and privatization is hindered. The problem of resolving
the excess debts of the SOEs is central to achieving successful privatizations as bank debt
constitutes some 54 percent of all enterprise debt, and 58 percent of the liabilities of the large
"systems." In the absence of a joint resolution, the potential conflict of interests between the
BRA, as bankruptcy administrator, and MOEP/PA could hamper the privatization process and
may even result in the liquidation of companies that could be sold as ongoing concerns.
54.   Government's Strategy. The FRY and Serbian authorities recognized very early on the
importance of addressing these linkages between banking and enterprise sector refonns, and
have worked closely for several months before the four banks went into bankruptcy to develop a
solution to the potential conflict of interest the situation presented. With the help of the Bank
and other donors, the two agencies have now developed a formal joint approach to workout the
banks' bad assets/enterprise debts, which protects the interests of the creditors of the bankrupt
banks.
55.   Under the proposed scheme, debts owed to the BRA banks and to the Ministry of Finance
(MOFE) (primarily tax arrears) by enterprises to be auctioned will be settled from the
privatization proceeds, and will not be the obligation of the buyer. The auction price is expected
to be more than or equal to the present value of liquidating the company through bankruptcy on
the following assumptions: (i) the auction process is faster than court administered liquidation;
and (ii) the value of a company's assets is higher as part of a going concern. The crucial
condition of the scheme is that the settlement of debts occurs only as an integral part of the
closing transaction. If the enterprise is not sold, then the debt write off does not occur. At the
moment the auction price is paid, from the enterprise perspective, the BRA and MOFE debt
which is not assumed by the buyer ceases to be an enterprise obligation.
56.   From the perspective of the BRA, as bankruptcy administrator, the strategy relies on the
premise that realizable value of the claims owing to the bankrupt banks by the enterprises being
privatized will be lower through enforcement actions (including bankruptcy) than the alternative
of receiving proceeds from the sale of those enterprises as "on-going concerns". In the absence
of an agreement, it is the duty of the BRA to realize the loan portfolios of the banks, regardless
of the impact on the borrower or any attendant social dislocation. Reduced to its basics, the
joint strategy allows enterprises to be auctioned "free and clear" from any amounts owing to the
BRA banks or historical debts to the MOFE and other state creditors. Instead, the BRA and the
PA have agreed that for enterprises to be sold by auction, sale proceeds will be apportioned
between the BRA and other state creditors on the basis of an agreed upon formula.  For
enterprises which are to be sold by tender, or which are to be restructured prior to being offered
for sale, the BRA and the PA will negotiate the treatment of debt owing to the BRA banks on
case by case basis with the help of the financial advisors working on the particular enterprise. To
protect the interests of the bank creditors from the possible consequences of protracted delays,
the agreement between the BRA and the PA contains stringent time limits (18 months), so if an
enterprise does not enter one of the privatization processes within the specified time period, the
BRA is free to pursue its alternative remedies against the enterprise borrower. This is an
important source of financial discipline since it is expected to motivate enterprises to voluntarily
enter the restructuring and privatization processes.
18



57.   The BRA is presently cooperating with the PA in its specific legal capacity as bankruptcy
administrator of the four large bankrupt banks. As such, its strategy to realize the maximum
value of the loan portfolio of the banks is subject to the approval of a bankruptcy panel
consisting of three judges, as well as to challenge by any of the bankruptcy creditors. The
agreement between the two agencies is unique in Yugoslav jurisprudence, and the support of the
judges, who tend to be quite conservative, cannot be guaranteed. In this event, there is a risk
that there may be delays in the privatization program while an alternative arrangement is put in
place to reconcile the interests of the two groups of creditors. To guard against this possibility,
the PA and the BRA, supported by the MOEP and NBY, are currently seeking to adopt the
necessary legal/regulatory measures to ensure that the principles of the scheme are fully
implemented.
58.   Medium-term Reform Objectives. As the privatization program gathers momentum,
and the BRA gains a better understanding of the extent and quality of the loan portfolios of the
four large banks for which it has been appointed as bankruptcy administrator, the two agencies
will deepen their working relationship. The BRA and the PA will work closely together to
provide the incentive for enterprises to enter the privatization process; this will give the PA
additional ability to manage the pace of the process, as well as possibly encouraging the more
rapid privatization of particular sectors or enterprises. The PA will develop a joint strategy with
the BRA under which the BRA can use the threat of foreclosure and bankruptcy actions against
enterprises indebted to the bankrupt banks to provide an incentive to those enterprises to start
their privatization process. The government is expected to use the powers of the BRA to file for
bankruptcy, if necessary, against enterprises that either were offered in auction, clear and free of
BRA and tax debt, and did not attract any buyer, or did not cooperate with the PA in the
privatization process.
59.   Proposed PFSAC Program. The proposed operation supports the development of an
improved legal and institutional framework to resolve the non-performing loans in the portfolios
of banks under liquidation, while at the same time facilitating the privatization process of the
indebted enterprises. In this regard, the credit supports the agreement between the PA and BRA
on a suitable framework, as evidenced by a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), for settling
creditor claims of privatized enterprises that are indebted to one or more of the BRA-held banks
under liquidation
D.    Banking Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework
60.   Over the past decade, the NBY's capacity to oversee the health of the banking system
severely deteriorated. Governmental interference in the banking system, politically motivated
directions to the NBY and its banking supervision, together with rapidly deteriorating banking
conditions, rendered the NBY's supervisory oversight compromised and ineffectual. Although
the banking law and regulations were generally appropriate for the existing system at the
beginning of the decade, the legislative framework rapidly became antiquated. Given the duress
of the system and the conditions under which banking supervision operated, the process of
supervision devolved into a substantially mechanical, compliance based function without the
capacity or tools necessary to assess existing and developing risks in the system and individual
19



banks' operating condition and solvency. All of these elements combined allowed poor
management and imprudent practices to pervade the banking system.
61.   Government's Strategy. Since the change of NBY administration and the initiation of
banking reform, renewed attention has been devoted to the need for substantial strengthening and
updating in both legislation and supervisory practice. The first stage of reform required banking
supervision to conduct a diagnostic process through which unviable institutions were identified
and referred to the BRA for potential rehabilitation or, alternatively, liquidation. Additionally.,
banks which did not require referral to the BRA, but were considered substantially weak and
deserving of special supervisory attention, were placed in the NBY's newly formed Problem
Bank Unit (PBU). Other banks not considered candidates for the PBU were given corrective
action instructions and subsequently, have been examined to determine their condition and
progress. All of these activities placed extraordinary demands on the bank supervision
department which it met through extended hours, the employment of 15 new bank examiners,
and the assistance of international technical support.
62.   Supervision. Commendable efforts have been taken by the NBY to begin the initial steps
of rebuilding bank supervision. One of the important first steps was the diagnostic examination
process itself. This work not only produced the needed results to act and restructure the banking
system, but it also provided the supervisors with a certain amount of on-the-job training in onsite
examination process. Organizationally, the supervision department was expanded from three to
six divisions, each headed by a division manager.15 As a part of the new organization, a Problem
Bank Unit was established to oversee troubled banks not referred to the BRA. A new Report of
Examination format was introduced to focus examination results and to provide more
consistency, and the CAMEL rating system was initially introduced to help evolve supervision
toward a more risk based approach. Comprehensive training for each of these elements has been
conducted with the assistance of international technical assistance. Most recently, the NBY has
conducted, together with international advisors, a self assessment of its compliance with the Core
Principles for Effective Banking Supervision. The results of this exercise will formn, in part, the
basis for designing the next steps for supervisory development.
63.   International technical assistance has been provided by USAID since April, 2001, and is
scheduled to continue through September, 2002. A substantial portion of the upcoming
assistance is focused on training (both supervisory practices and regulation application),
developing the manual for the onsite examination planning and process, offsite development
(including ongoing monitoring, bank perfonnance reporting, further refinement of the CAMEL
rating system), aspects of information technology supervision support, and development of a
staff performance evaluation system.
64.   Additional work is needed to evaluate and streamline the regulatory reporting process,
ensuring that information received is adequate to identify and assess the key changes in bank risk
and condition. This is also a key input into the planned early warning system. Although the
PBU was established last July, specific guidelines and criteria for transferring a bank in or out of
the Unit have not yet been developed. Procedures for designing, monitoring, and enforcing
15 These divisions are: Off-site Supervision, On-site Supervision, Problem Banks, Legal, Bank Supervision Method
& System Improvement. The Credit Register division will be established in the near future.
20



corrective (or remedial) action plans for PBU also must be developed. The need also exists to
further develop and implement enhanced criteria to analyze applications for new bank licenses
and new banking activities. Finally, the NBY plans to redefine the role of Information
Technology Department (IT) which provides network services to NBY departments and is
responsible for the management and monitoring of the performance of the internal automated
systems network. The IT area of the NBY will turn into a separate department with clear
structure and the proper procedures in place to avoid duplication of systems projects by other
areas of the NBY.
65.   Regulation. During the initial period of bank restructuring, the first changes to banking
legislation were introduced. Last year certain sections of the Rehabilitation Law were amended,
most importantly the requirement to appoint the BRA as the automatic receiver in the case of
bank bankruptcy.  Currently, amendments to the Law on Banks and Other Financial
Organizations and a revised Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia have been submitted to the
Federal Parliament. Likewise, new and amended prudential regulations (or decisions) have been
prepared and will be approved by the Governor of the NBY following parliamentary approval of
the above changes to the Law on Banks.
66.   The changes to the laws and prudential regulations will serve to strengthen the oversight
capacity of the NBY and to tighten banks' operating requirements. Among the key changes are
tightening provisions addressing the following issues:  bank ownership; equity capital;
limitations on bank investments, large exposures, foreign exchange positions; the authority to
implement certain regulations (internal control, internal audit, loan policy); the authority to
examine banks' subsidiaries, affiliates, and other connected organizations; further definition of
conditions for taking remedial actions including withdrawing a license; and selected bank
governance requirements.  Strengthened remedial action provisions provide clearer, more
defined types of bank directives available to the NBY and more specific definition of the types of
actions that may be contained in an bank order, specifically.
67.   The definition of and the authority to take the specific corrective action is central to the
enforcement capacity of the NBY. Specifically, the authority of the NBY to require banks to
remedy unsafe and unsound banking practices is pivotal to the application of risk based
supervision and to the supervisors' ability to address developing bank risks before they
ultimately threaten the viability of the institution. Parliamentary approval of the proposed
remedial action toolkit is essential, particularly this element. The proposed various remedial
actions include, but are not limited to the following:
* requiring remedy of the offending unsafe and unsound practice(s), law violation(s),
and/or previous NBY direction;
* requiring capital increase;
* requiring increase of loan loss provisions;
* requiring non-accrual of interest;
* discontinue relationships with certain shareholders and other persons;
* cease certain activities;
* dismiss members of management;
* cease dividends;
21



* suspend the managing rights of shareholders;
* close organizational units;
* undertake or stop certain other activities;
68.   A number of prudential regulations that support the above mentioned laws have been
prepared, but their approval is likewise pending Parliament's passage of the laws. These specific
regulations will further define and implement limitations and requirements in the areas of loan
classification and provisions, capital and capital limits, credit risk management, internal control
and internal audit requirements, and regulatory reporting refinements. In addition to the above, a
regulation which directs banks to comply with and set up procedures to meet the requirements of
the recently approved Anti-Money Laundering law is expected to be prepared and approved by
the NBY/Federal Ministry of Finance.
69.   Medium-term Reform Objectives. With the banking sector reform and restructuring
underway, further strengthening of bank supervision must be actively pursued, with the objective
to build the supervisory process into an effective, forward looking function. Therefore, it is
critical that a framework for development be prepared and endorsed by the NBY. A road map,
or Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) with medium to long term objectives will be prepared,
based on international standards, capturing the current and future assistance provided by the
international advisors, and building on the momentum generated so far.
70.   As part of the SDP, the legal framework will continue to be reviewed. The above
legislative changes will go far to enhance the authorities and capacity of the NBY and bank
supervision. However, they represent only the initial steps in a continually evolving process.
Changes through the year are anticipated in order to bring legislation closer to EU and OECD
standards and will be necessary to address the risks of banking system in transition.
Implementation of the above mentioned amendments will require comprehensive training for
both the supervisors and bank management.  Objectives for further legislative changes,
application, and training therein will be developed as a part of the SDP.
71.   Reform of bank and regulatory accounting methods, the supervisor's role in ensuring
accurate and truthful disclosure of banks' financial position and condition, and the adoption of
International Accounting Standards (IAS) for banks and other financial institutions are also
featured prominently on the government's reform agenda. Plans to evaluate these issues and to
support migration of current bank accounting to IAS will be prepared in the medium term.
72.   Proposed PFSAC Program.     The proposed credit will support: (i) the ongoing
upgrading of the legal framnework, including amendments to the banking law, the Law on NBY,
and revised prudential regulations; (ii) NBY's ongoing efforts to improve the existing
supervisory work, including the completion of the self assessment of compliance with the Core
Principles for Effective Supervision, introduction of a CAMEL rating system, and procedures for
NBY's problem bank unit; and (iii) the preparation of a supervisory development plan.
22



E.    Business Environment Reform
73.   The return to growth of the FRY economy - and its ability to absorb labor released as a
consequence of the restructuring of SOEs - requires a business environment conducive to the
development of the private sector. Serbia's entrepreneurial energies are among its greatest assets
for economic recovery, and already contribute significantly to growth. The private sector,
including the informal sector, by 2001 accounted for two-thirds of GDP, although it employed
less than 10 percent of capital. Registered SMEs employed about 610,000 workers in Serbia by
end-2000, or about 44 percent of all formal employment. A very large informal economy has
emerged, accounting for perhaps one-third of GDP, and employing as many as one million
workers. By all measures, the private sector is far more efficient and profitable than firms under
state, mixed or social ownership.
74.   However, the dominant role played by the Serbian private sector in generating wealth is a
sign of its great resiliency rather than of a supportive business environment. As shown by the
enterprise surveys conducted by FIAS/Economics Institute and G-17 Institute, the business
environment in Serbia is less than conducive to private investment. As a consequence, many
private businesses have found it extremely difficult to grow over the last several years and have
instead largely resorted to operating in the gray economy. Small and medium enterprises have
been most exposed to the adverse impact of unfavorable business environment.
75.   Since the new government has come into office many positive steps have been taken to
construct the framework of credible rules, legal systems, and institutions needed for a market
economy. The reforms of trade policy enacted in December 2000 and May 2001 introduced
liberalization and deregulation of the foreign trade: they reduced the large number of
administrative barriers to trade, simplified the procedures for carrying out trade activities,
liberalized quantitative restrictions and licensing for both imports and exports, simplified tariff
structure and reduced average tariff rates. In January 2002 the Federal Parliament enacted a new
Foreign Investment Law that removed the condition for special approval for investments in
which foreign ownership exceeds 49 percent, introduced clear procedures for international
arbitration and removed distortionary tax incentives. A number of important tax reforms were
adopted by the Serbian Parliament in April 2001: sales tax was consolidated, uniform excise tax
rate was established, more transparent way of income taxes calculation was introduced. The
recent reform of labor legislation will also provide incentives for business to move from the
informal to formal sector. It envisages flexible hiring for part-time and seasonal labor, and
relaxation of the current rigid benefits and severance payments which hinder job creation.
76.   Government's Strategy. While the initial steps in deregulation have been done, the
outstanding business environment reform agenda remains quite challenging. The government's
strategy aims for broad and systematic deregulation and withdrawal of the state from
inappropriate intervention into business decisions, along with institutionalization of quality
controls inside the public administration to ensure that future regulatory decisions are consistent
with competitive markets. Through its implementation, the government hopes to achieve the
following objectives: (i) accelerate economic growth, job creation, and regional development,
with particular focus on SMEs, and thereby ameliorate the social costs of restructuring in state-
23



owned enterprises; (ii) promote foreign and domestic investment, and reinforce confidence
among investors; and (iii) reduce the size and scope of the gray economy by improving the
business environment and reducing disincentives for businesses to enter the formal economy.
77.   Deregulation of business entry and operations. As described in the World Bank report
Breaking with the Past: The Path to Stability and Growth, the business environment in Serbia is
burdened by a myriad of regulations governing business entry and operations. In this respect,
creation of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Deregulation coordinated by the Ministry of
Economy and Privatization in 2001 was a much needed step toward recognizing the need for a
coordinated, government-wide strategy to reduce barriers for business. The Committee's short-
term agenda, developed in consultations with the SME Advisory Board, a group of private
entrepreneurs advising the MOEP, includes inter alia the following measures:
*  Reforming the business registration system. The current business registration systems are
costly, semi-regulatory, and ineffective in supporting legitimate public policies16.
Businesses are required to register not only when they start up, but also when they
conduct activities outside of the scope of their original registration. The Federal Law on
Enterprises and Serbian Law on Private Entrepreneurs impose a particularly heavy
burden on SMEs, including a series of five to seven inspections prior to the start up of
business operations, for which the business is heavily charged.
The planned reform of the business registration system will replace the current mandatory
ex ante inspections with discretionary ex post inspections, that is, for most businesses
inspections will be done after the business has begun activity, rather than before. Ex ante
inspections will still be required for the limited categories of businesses that pose very
substantial safety and health risks, such as gas stations and chemical plants, and these
facilities will be explicitly identified in the new system. All other businesses should
simply start operations as soon as registration is completed, but should be liable to fines
or closure if they do not comply with applicable rules. To this end, the government plans
to introduce comparable amendments to the Federal Enterprise Law and Serbian Law on
Private Entrepreneurs, eliminating the basis for the numerous inspections that delay start
up of business operations.
*  Elimination of cash management restrictions. Private firms require flexibility in cash
management to avoid the risk of cash-flow problems. Current legal restrictions on the
amount of cash withdrawals from business accounts are inconsistent with a liberalized
financial system and are scheduled to be eliminated as of July 1, 2002.
78.   Improving enterprise access to finance. Limited access to capital is one of the most
severe constraints to private sector development. The financial difficulties of the large state-
owned banks, have precluded the financial sector from responding to the growing demands of
the private sector. Private banks that have recently emerged are small, thinly capitalized, and can
only offer short-term working capital credits to a small number of best clients. In addition to
16 Two separate and not integrated business registration systems are in effect: the Federal Enterprise Law stipulates
registration of legal companies in Republic's 13 Conmmercial Courts, and the Serbian Law on Private Entrepreneurs
stipulates registration of sole proprietors in 189 municipalities.
24



reforming the financial sector, the legal and regulatory framework needs to provide the right
incentives for banks and non-bank financial institutions to finance the private sector. The near-
term reform agenda of the government includes the following measures:
* System of secured financing.  The Federal Law on Contracts and Torts contains basic
provisions on pledge, but does not enable more sophisticated types of security to be
undertaken over a variety of asset classes. Moreover, third parties have very few means
to assess a potential debtor's existing security over its property as no public records exist.
Finally, enforcement of security and recovery of collateral is ineffective.
The government's objective is to create a modem, enabling, legal framework and
appropriate implementing institutions that will support sophisticated credit transactions,
which involve movable property as collateral. The reformed secured financing system
will provide the legal structure within which modem secured financing of inventory,
equipment, accounts and consumer goods can develop, and will improve the cost of
credit and the efficiency of the market for secured transactions. The establishment of the
system of secured financing is supported by the donor community with the EBRD and
USAID leading the process. The government's short-term reform program focuses on
drafting the Law on Secured Transactions, including regulation of the Pledge Registry,
ensuring consistency with other relevant commercial laws and regulations, and consulting
broadly within the government and with lawyers, judges, and businesses.
* Introduction of non-banking forms of financing. To support the creation of non-bank
financial institutions such as insurance and leasing companies, the government plans to
review existing relevant laws and regulations to ensure the observance of adequate
regulatory and supervisory standards for the development of insurance and leasing
operations (e.g., legal treatment of the ownership, tax incentives, and accounting
practices regarding amortization of leased equipment by the lessor). In addition, the
government will also review draft regulations that would allow the development of
adequately supervised micro-finance institutions.
79.   Facilitating business-government dialogue and improving institutional capacity for
SME Support. With the help of the donor-funded technical assistance, Serbia has made
substantial progress in promoting small and medium enterprise development. Within the MOEP,
the SME Department focuses on formulation of SME policy, facilitating business-governnent
dialogue and improving the business environment. The SME Advisory Board comprised of 15
entrepreneurs has been created with an objective to facilitate business-government dialogue; it
will review draft laws and advise the Inter-ministerial Committee on issues and regulations
affecting the interests of SMEs. The Law on the Agency for the Development of Small and
Medium Enterprises has been broadly discussed with local stakeholders and donors community
and was recently enacted by the Serbian Parliament. The government is currently working on a
strategy and business plan for the newly established SME Agency.
80.   Work on establishing a network of Regional SME Agencies has started with the technical
assistance of donors. The approach places emphasis on the participation of local stakeholders -
local authorities, business associations, chambers of commerce, banks, universities.  This
25



approach creates the sense of a public-private partnership with respect to SME development and
is consistent with best practices in local economic development which favor more delegation and
decentralization. At present, five regional Agencies are being established with the support of the
European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR), two with the support of GTZ (Germany), and one
with assistance from Swiss Development Corporation. Eventually, the Agencies will operate in
all 15 regions of Serbia and are expected to serve as agents for implementing the government's
SME policy at the regional and municipal levels.
81.   Medium-term Reform Objectives. The reforms described above are important initial
steps in a long term program aimed at creating a modern business environment framework in
Serbia which would be conducive to private sector led growth. By the end of 2002, the
government plans to achieve the following:
*  develop a coherent strategy for support of SME development and improvement of
business environment that would facilitate new business entry, lower transaction costs for
business, especially individual entrepreneurs and SMEs, and encourage foreign direct
investment;
* prepare a draft law replacing the registration systems regulated by the Enterprise Law and
the Law on Private Entrepreneurs with a single, more efficient business registration
system;
*  enact the Law on Secured Transactions by the Federal Parliament and establish a
centralized computerized pledge registry operating as public information provider;
*  submit amendments to the statutory framework for leasing operations to the Parliament
for approval;
*  enact an adequate regulatory framework for micro-finance institutions; and,
* improve transparency and regulatory impact analysis by adoption of changes to the
legislative process to require that draft laws and regulations that affect business be
reviewed at an early stage by the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Deregulation and
business representatives, including the SME Advisory Board.
82.   Proposed PFSAC Program. The proposed operation will support reform efforts aimed
at: (i) deregulation of business entry and operations; (ii) reforms aimed at enhancing private
business access to finance; and (iii) improvement of institutional capacity for SME support and
business-government dialogue.  In particular, the PFSAC will support the first phase in
simplification of business registration system and the elimination of cash management
restrictions. In addition, the credit will support the introduction of a system of secured financing,
including the establishment of legal framework for secured transactions and capacity for
implementation, and reform of regulatory framework to support the development of non-banking
financial institutions such as leasing companies. Finally, the credit will support strengthening the
institutional capacity of SME support infrastructure.
III.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT
83.   This section provides a summary of the proposed credit including: (a) details on the credit
and its proposed implementation; (b) coordination with the IMF and other donors; (c) poverty
26



implications; and (d) environmental impact. The broad rationale and objectives of the credit, and
its links to the Bank's TSS, are already given in Section I-C.
A.    Project Implementation
84.   Credit Amount, Borrower, Terms, Tranching. The proposed PFSAC (SDR 68.1 million
(US$85 million equivalent)) will be made to the FRY, represented by the Federal Ministry of
Finance. The credit will be on modified IDA terms, with a maturity of 20 years including a grace
period of 10 years, and no acceleration clause. It will be released in one tranche upon Board
approval of the Credit and notification by the International Development Association (the
Association) of Credit Agreement Effectiveness. We consider the full completion of the core
measures listed in the Policy Matrix (Annex 6), in addition to significant progress already made
(see Section II), sufficient to justify the release of this tranche.
85.   Implementation and Monitoring. During credit preparation, extensive assistance was
provided to the Federal and Republican governments to ensure timely implementation of the
agreed reforms. To assess the impact of the proposed operation, and the potential for follow-up
operations, progress in implementing the medium-term reform strategy described in the Letter of
Development Policy will be closely monitored. The Federal and Serbian governments are aware
that such progress will be evaluated when assessing the desirability, timing and form of potential
future adjustment operations in these areas. This impact assessment will be conducted jointly
between staff of the World Bank Office in Belgrade and headquarters-based staff.
86.   Credit Management. The Federal Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a Deposit
Account in the NBY, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.17  Credit
administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager employed by the Federal Ministry of
Finance, who will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal applications, maintaining the
Deposit Account, and arranging for their timely audit (if requested by the Association). The
credit manager will also be responsible for coordinating the preparation of contributions of the
Federal and Serbian governments to the Implementation Completion Report and for writing
those sections related to loan administration.
87.   Disbursements. Upon notification by the Association of Credit Agreement Effectiveness,
and with the submission by the Borrower of a withdrawal application, the proceeds of the Credit
will be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account of the Borrower. The Borrower
shall make available to the Republic of Serbia in Dinar the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Following the approval by the
Government of the Republic of Serbia of the said terms and conditions, the Borrower will then
enact a law related to the above arrangements and satisfactory to the Association. If, after
deposit in the Deposit Account, the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to
finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods and services from the
Association's standard negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to either: (i)
'7 The initial CFAA rnissions have discussed the flow of fimds for structural adjustment operations with the NBY
and found no apparent difficulties in transferring and tracking credits from the Association to the NBY and then to
govermnent accounts.
27



return the amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly
to the Association.
88.   Reporting, Accounting and Auditing. The Federal Ministry of Finance, with the
assistance of the NBY, would maintain records of all transactions under the credit in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Although routine audits of the deposit accounts will not be
required, the Association reserves the right to require audits at any time. In such cases, the
Borrower should furnish and audit report not later than four months after the date of the
Association's request for such an audit.
89.   Closing Date. The expected closing date of the Credit will be June 30, 2003, or such
later date as the Association shall establish.
B.    Coordination with the IMF and Donors
90.   The proposed credit is being developed in close collaboration with the lIMF and other key
international donors. The government's overall reform program has been designed within a
framework for macroeconomic stability consistent with FRY's Stand-by Arrangement (SBA)
with the IMF. The Fund is providing important technical assistance in some areas of financial
sector reforms in the proposed PFSAC, while Bank input was instrumental in developing the
structural elements of the SBA. At the Donor Conference for FRY held on June 29, 2001,
multilateral and bilateral donors pledged a substantial initial package of financial and technical
assistance totaling around US$1.3 billion. Donors are providing important financial and technical
assistance in all five areas supported by the PFSAC. They include the EC, EBRD, DFID (UK),
USAID, US Treasury, GTZ (Germany), Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and Sweden (see
the attached policy matrix for more details on donor assistance).
C.    Poverty Implications/Social Impact
91.   The proposed PFSAC and the government program which it supports will have important
impacts on poverty in the longer term. Some reforms, such as privatization and, particularly,
restructuring of large SOEs, could have significant social costs as redundant labor would be
released.18 The Serbian Government has demonstrated a clear concern for mitigating any
negative social impacts of reforms. The 2002 budget includes several specific allocations for
financing labor retrenchment packages, and discussions are underway on allocation of adequate
resources in the 2003 and 2004 budgets for implementation of "systems"' restructuring. The
government's appeal to the donor community also prioritized financial and technical support for
social assistance programs. In particular, the recently approved SAC supports reforms to improve
the immediate and medium-term effectiveness of social welfare programs, and to enhance the
potential for donor support for payment of such benefits. As noted elsewhere, the proposed
PFSAC will support the development of the Government's Social Program, which outlines the
framework for entitlements of all dismissed workers during economic restructuring.
18 In practice, the social disruption associated with labor redeployment may be overstated. Many of the workers in
large SOEs are on administrative leave and working in the informal sector. These workers only receive minimal
wages and benefits from their "official" jobs.
28



92.   In the longer term, the PFSAC is expected to have an overall positive impact on poverty
in Serbia as crowding out of the private sector by large loss making firms will cease, enterprise
sector performance will significantly improve, and the Serbian economy embarks on a steady
growth path. At the same time, the business environment reforms supported by this operation
will result in creation of new jobs, which could eventually absorb some of the displaced labor.
The Bank is committed to continue to work closely with the government to ensure that any social
issues arising from the operation are properly addressed. A social sector adjustment credit and an
investment operation focused on labor redeployment in Serbia are currently under discussion,
with delivery likely in FY03.
D.    Environmental Impact
93.   The environmental concerns under PFSAC are expected to be limited and primarily relate
to the privatizations of some of the large SOEs. The government, however, has already taken
important measures to ensure adequate environmental safeguards and to minimize potential
impact under PFSAC based on recommendations of the World Bank. The government has
allocated the funding to assess the environmental impact of privatizing enterprises on an
individual basis using qualified local firms. All major enterprises being privatized will be subject
to an environmental assessment, which will be included in the information memorandum for
each enterprise put on sale. In addition, medium size enterprises being privatized will be
screened to determine if an environmental assessment is required, and the results will be
reflected in the privatization program for each enterprise to be sold. In the medium term, the
government, assisted by the World Bank and other donors, intends to systematically address the
issues of environmental compliance and industrial pollution in the enterprise sector, and
implement a reform agenda that would encompass improvement of the environment-related
legislative framework, regulatory and institutional capacity, and mitigate the negative impact of
the previous environmental policies and practices in the enterprise sector.
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits
94.   The main benefit of the proposed credit would be faster private sector growth and job
creation, supported by a healthier and more developed financial system. Overall enterprise
sector performance is expected to improve. This improvement may come partly through sales of
firms to local and foreign investors with strong management capacity, and partly through
improved financial discipline and more productive use of assets as a result of more proactive
restructuring. Additionally, formation of new private sector firms is expected to accelerate in
response to an improved business enabling environment and an increased supply of productive
assets expected to be released from loss making firms as part of enterprise restructuring efforts.
The program is expected to lay the foundation for restoring the confidence in the banking
system, which will lead to an increase in financial sector intermediation, generating the much
needed working capital and investment finance needed by the private sector to modernize and
expand their businesses.
95.   In broader terms, the implementation of continued structural reforms in the enterprise and
financial sectors supported by this operation will enhance Serbia's prospects for growth, and will
29



reinforce the sustainability of its macroeconomic stabilization.  Additionally, the Bank's
assessment of the structural reform efforts in FRY and Serbia will send a positive signal, both to
other donors wishing to provide budgetary support and to potential private investors and
creditors. Finally, by working for a more stable and prosperous FRY and Serbia, it will indirectly
promote economic recovery in the wider South East European region.
B.    Risks
96.   Given the experience in other ECA countries and the global economic downturn that
could deter potential private capital inflows to Serbia, it is unclear whether there will be
sufficient interest in the FRY economy on the part of investors. A wide participation by credible
foreign or local investors is crucial for the success of Serbia's efforts to reform its enterprise and
financial sectors. Notwithstanding improvements in recent months, additional risks could arise
from what is perceived by prospective investors as a volatile Balkan region, with the future of
FRY being still somewhat uncertain and the final status of Kosovo undeternined. Lack of
interest by investors would have negative effect on the success of tender and auction
privatization. In particular, auction privatization may fail to attract sufficient number of
investors needed to sell majority stakes in the large number of enterprises on sale.
97.   The operation also faces the risk of eventual weakening of political commitment to
restructure or liquidate large loss making enterprises and insolvent banks, many of which are
politically/socially sensitive because of their importance to the economy as a whole and potential
social and fiscal costs. If warranted by the pace of structural sector reform going forward and the
size of resulting social costs, the Bank could consider additional support for labor restructuring
as necessary to mitigate this risk. Weak institutional capacity could also undermine
implementation of the reform program. This risk is mitigated by several accompanying donor
funded technical assistance projects (details on donor funded projects that underpin the PFSAC's
financial and enterprise sector adjustment program are provided in the draft Policy Matrix
(Annex 6)).
98.   Finally, reforms could slow ahead of new elections in Serbia, which could be precipitated
by political tensions within the governing coalition. While all core measures have been taken,
the implementation of follow-up measures could be delayed. The Bank is working to mitigate
these risks through continued policy dialogue, increased outreach to the public and civil society,
and an IDF grant and post-conflict grants to support communication of reform strategies and
public dialogue on key policy issues. The linkage of future adjustment operations to progress in
achieving the medium-term outcome benchmarks described in the Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 5) increases the prospects for success.
C.    Lessons Learned from Past Bank Operations
99.   The Bank experience with other sectoral adjustment operations in ECA region suggests
that certain approaches need to be built into the proposed PFSAC in order to ensure that the
adjustment in the financial and enterprise sectors is as timely and effective as possible.
100.  Objective, measurable reform actions should be sought, rather than the promise of future
actions. A key lesson learned from other structural adjustment programs, such as the PSAL I in
30



Romania and the FESAC I in FYR Macedonia, is to set objectively verifiable performance
criteria, with specific implementation time tables. In the past, the release of funds against
promises of future action has proven to be ineffective. The policy matrix for the proposed
PFSAC contains conditions based on discrete, objective actions on the part of the Borrower, such
as the resolution of specific problem banks, privatization of specific large socially owned
enterprises and specific improvements of regulatory and institutional framework for banking and
enterprise sectors.
101.  Clear understanding on the part of the Borrower of the Bank's reform expectations is
critical. It is very important that the government clearly understands the reform objectives and
philosophy of the Bank, and the reasons why the credit conditions are designed as they are. To
ensure such understanding, the team has established a very close working relationship with a
number of key officials representing MOPF, MOEP, NBY, and other relevant government
agencies, which contributes to properly considered and timely decision making on crucial issues.
The Bank also assisted the government with hiring the onsite advisers on enterprise and business
environment reforms (in the area of banking sector reform, similar assistance was provided by
US Treasury). These advisers facilitated the dialogue between the government and the Bank on
these complex issues and helped formulate the key policy actions.
102.  Integrated design elements promote success. Bank's experience in the ECA Region has
shown that an integrated approach is needed to address the interrelated issues of banking system
weakness and loss making enterprises. Over the last ten years, most governments in transition
countries, with the possible exception of Poland, opted for a segmented approach in dealing with
banking and enterprise reforms. In the Czech Republic, for instance, weaknesses in the
enterprise sector were addressed through mass privatization, and financial sector weaknesses
were addressed through successive and costly bank rehabilitation schemes. The end results of
this approach were disappointing: ineffective restructuring of large SOEs and banks, little gains
in efficiency, no financial discipline imposed on the enterprise sector. By contrast, the Serbian
reform program supported by PFSAC is based on an integrated approach which tackles the
problems in the two broad areas up-front. It recognizes that sectoral reforms will only have a
transitory impact, unless the link between sectors is explicitly dealt with.
103.  At the same time, the Bank's experience in other transition economies has demonstrated
that adequate institutional and regulatory framework is an essential condition for the success of
broad-based structural reforms.  Lessons learned in the transition process indicate that
institutional and regulatory reform should be a key component of an early assistance strategy.
Accordingly, the proposed operation emphasizes developing the modem regulatory environment
in both banking and enterprise sectors, thus laying the foundations for private sector led growth
in Serbia.
104.  Adequate implementation capacity. A final key lesson from past projects has been the
limitations of the administrative capacity in the implementation of projects. This includes
fundamental requirements such as producing needed terms of reference in a timely manner,
developing scoring systems to evaluate bids, etc. To address this problem, the implementation
capacity of the FRY and Serbian governments is being strengthened under the Bank's two
technical assistance grants for private and financial sector development, as well as a Japanese
Trust Fund given for PFSAC preparation. As a result of these efforts, project management units
31



have been established at the PA and the BRA with well qualified and competent staff who are
responsible for administering the technical assistance to help achieve the credit's objectives. As
noted elsewhere, the team has made specific efforts to ensure donor co-ordination to avoid
duplication of efforts and to leverage available resources in the most efficient way.
V.    RECOMMENDATION
105.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Shenginan Zhang
Washington, D.C.
April 23, 2002
32



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) at a glance                                                                     4126102
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                             Yugoslavia,    Central  middle-
Fed. Rep.      Asia   income      Development diamond
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                       10.6       475     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$) 1/                  990      2,010    1,140
GNP (Atas method, US$ billions) 1/                    10.5       956     2,327
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                         0.1       0.1        1.0
Labor force (%)                                        0.5        0.6       1.3     GNI                             Gnoss
per                              G pmros
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 199541)                                 capita         * \  ,-       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                52        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                13        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               2         ..       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     ..       90        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    ..         3        1 5-            Ygsai,R SrMo)
Gross prmary enrollment (/ ofschool-age population)     69       100       114        -    ugoslavia,FR(SerblMont.)
Male                                                  69       101       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                70        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991       2000      2001
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             ..       ..        8.1      10.9
Gross domestic investmentGDP                   ..       ..       14.5      13.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP               ..      ..      31.6      25.4                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..      ..       -3.5      -8.6
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..      ,.       10.3       8.0
Current account balance/GDP                                      -5.0      -5.5     Domestic       /    \
Interest payments/GDP 2/                                          0.6       0.7       stic                      Investment
Total debtUGDP                                  .        ..     141.3     106.8     savings
Total debt service/exports 2/                   .        ..       2.2       1.0
Present value of debt/GDP                       .
Present value of debt/exports                   .
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991-01     2000       2001   2001-05
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   ..       ..      5.0        5.5       4.3              Yugoslavia, FR (SerbAMont.)
GDP per capita                        ..       ..      4.9        5.4       3.8              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..       ..     34.8        9.4      10.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1989       2000      2001     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          20
Agriculture                                    ..     10.1       17.6              10
Industry                                       ..     43.1       37.6       a...                                 AP   -
Manufacturing                                 ..       ..        ..        ..    -10     go     97     97       00   01
Services                                        ..    46.8       44.8        ..    -20
-30
Private consumption                            ..       ..       85.0      90.2    -40
General govemment consumption                  ..       ..       18.5      18.4                    GDI     -     GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..       .,      49.6      47.5
198141   199141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (Y.)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      -20.0      25.0    40
Industry                                       ..       ..       10.9       0.0    20
Manufacturing                                 ..       .,         .         .
Services                                        .. .              .               ..     - a - 9s 97     5       00   01
Private consumption                            ..       ..       20.0      14.8   -40
General government consumption                 ..       ..      -24.5       5.2    -30
Gross domestic investment                      ..       ..       17.5       5.8            -     Exports   O   lmports
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      28.6      30.0
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
11 Estimate for 2000; excludes Kosovo and is calculated using the market exchange rate. 21 On a cash basis.



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000      2001      Inflation I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          1 300    4_
Consumer prices                                  .        .       71.8     91.1        l
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..       ..      76.8      91.7      40
Government finance                                                                   20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   D       a -_
Current revenue 3/                              ..        .       38.5     42.1              9s    97    98    99    00    01
Current budget balance                          ..       ..        1.7      0.7                   GDp deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..        0.2     -0.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1981     1991       2000      2001      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              .        .      1,923    2,003     8,000
Food                                           ..       ..        ..      297       000 T
Other fuel                                     ..       .4 .0 5
Manufactures                                                              694      4,000
Total imports (cif)                                      ..     3,772     4,837     3,000           , X 3s           .fl
Food                                           ..       .          .      552      2,000
Fuel and energy                                 .       .                1,031     1000
Capital goods                                  ..       .          .     1,012        0
95   96   97   98    99   00   01
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..         ..       ..                   Exports     r51mports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991       2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (/)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                   2,547     2,762      o
Imports of goods and services                    .        ..    4,065     5,160     .1  0s    96   97   98
Resource balance                                                -1,518    -2,398    32
Net income                                       .        .        -1       -26     -4
Net current transfers                                           1,119     1,828      sE
Current account balance                                   .       -400     -596      8        
Financing items (net)                                             646       991     -8 -
Changes in not reserves                         ..       ..      -246      -395     og
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..       516     1,169
Conversion rate (DEC, iocal/US$)                ..       ..       44.4     66.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$ milliors)                                                                       Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       .     11,407   11,600
IBRD                                                    .     1,812     1,865
IDA                                            .       ..         0         0                              A: 1,865
Total debt service                               .        .        56       107                                      210
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0        F 4,301
IDA                                           0        0          0         0                                       5:4,33
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..        .       271       591
Official creditors                            ..                377       333
Private creditors                             0        0         49       202
Foreign direct investment                     ..        .        25       165
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..         0         0                               E 4,661
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0          0         0      A - ISR0                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        0          0         0      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0          0         0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                      0        0          0         0    1                                          1
Interest payments                             0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                 0        0          0         0
Development Economics                                                                                                  4/26/02
31 Includes current grants.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997     1998    1999     2000    2001     2002    2003     2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                  100      100
Agriculture                             20       20
Industry                                39       34
Services                                42       46
Total Consumption                         91      96      100      104     101       98      95       94
Grossdomestic fixed investment            12      11       13      15       18       20      21       21
Government investment                             1       2        2       3        3        4       4
Private investment                               10      11       13      15       16       18      18
Exports (GNFS)b                           18      22       23      31       25       26      28       29
Imports (GNFS)                            26      32       35      49       44       44      44       44
Gross domestic savings                             4        0       -4      -1        2       5        6
Gross national savings'                            10       6        7      13       13      16       16
Memorandum items
Grossdomesticproduct                   16253   14353    10338    9015     11413   13092   14219    15362
(US$ million at current prices)
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 19.. prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices                -15.7     6.0      5.0      4.0     4.0      4.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 19.. prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices                -15.7     6.0      4.5      3.8     3.8      3.8
Total consumption                         -            -13.1     7.9      5.9      3.0     1.3      3.0
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                        3386    3972     2169    2547     2903     3398    4004     4501
Merchandise FOB                      2568    3058     1698     1923    2160    2543     3036     3413
Imports (GNFS)b                       5188     5270    3539     4004    4995     5730     6256    6777
Merchandise FOB                     4826     4849     3296    3711     4634    5318     5809     6292
Resource balance                      -1802    -1298   -1370    -1457   -2092    -2332    -2252   -2276
Netcurrenttransfers                     613     810      721      982    1510     1531     1451    1472
Current account balance               -1164     -480    -690     -400    -712    -1268    -1297   -1324
Net private foreign direct investment   740      113     112      25      150      350     425      575
Long-termn loans (net)                   54      25       12     213      285      570     421      329
Officiald                               54      25       12     213      263      495     336      229
Private                                  0       0        0        0      22       75      85      100
Other capital (net,incl eros & omissions)  352  227      455     369      469      613     687      722
Change in reserves'                      18     115      111    -207     -192     -265     -236    -301
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)            -11.1     -9.0    -13.3   -16.2    -18.3   -17.8    -15.8    -14.8
Real annual growth rates ( .. prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                       19.1    -44.5    13.3      8.4    13.7     16.0     10.0
Primary
Manufactures
Merchandise imports (CIF)                        0.5    -32.0    12.6     20.5    10.8      6.1     6.0
(Continued)



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.) - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1997    1998     1999    2000    2001     2002    2003     2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)f
Current revenues                         ..      ..      ..     39.1    41.2     42.2    41.4     41.8
Current expenditures                     ..      ..      ..     38.5    44.5     46.0    45.4     44.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  ..   ..       ..     0.6    -3.3     -3.8     -4.0    -2.9
Capital expenditure                      ..     1.3      1.5     1.8     2.9      3.2     3.5      4.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP5                                  ..      ..      9.0     8.4     10.0    14.0     15.0    16.0
Price indices(.. =100)
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)             ..      ..       ..    1.00     1.18    1.27     1.29    1.31
Real interest rates (e.o.p.)'          51.9    25.1      3.3     0.0    28.1     11.3     7.5      4.9
Retail price index (% change)          18.5    29.8     42.4    71.8     80.9    20.0     12.0     7.0
a. GDP at market prices. Sectoral distributions of economic activity pertains to Social Product, which excludes public servic(
banking and insurance.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services.'
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes IMF loans.
e. On a gross basis.
f. Consolidated general government, excluding the extra-budgetary funds of Montenegro.
g. Comprises Serbian money supply only.
h. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
i. Annualized short-term lending rate. Rate in 2000 is for August.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of - Status of Bank Group Operations
Operations Portfolio (IBRD/IDA and Grants)
As of 04/09//2002
Active Proiects                                                                                        Ditference Between
Last PSR                                                      Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating             Orieinal Amount in USS Millions      Disbursements
Project ID Project Name            Develonment Implementation Fiscal Year  IBRD  IDA GRANT Cancel. Undisb.  Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives    Proeress
P074136  EMG ELEC PWR RECN             S            S          2002                     6            4.7     1.7
P074127  FIN SEC DEVT TA GRANT         S            S          2001                     6            4.9     1.9
P074145  PRIV SECT DEVT TA             S            S          2001                     6            5.5     2.3
P074124  SOC ASST                      S            S          2002                    10            0.8       0
P074584  SAC I                         S            S          2002            70                      0     70
P072618  MONTENEGRO ENV INFR           S            S          2002                     2              2       0
Yugoslavia
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of February 28, 2002
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval                                          Company         Loan   Equity Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2002 Fresh&Co           6.68  0.00  0.00    0.00   4.45  0.00   0.00   0.00
2002 MFI MEB Kosovo     0.00  1.11  0.00    0.00   0.00   1.11  0.00   0.00
2002 Raiffeisen I Yug   0.00  0.87  0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00
2002 Tigar             13.79  0.00  3.50    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:                           20.47   1.98  3.50   0.00   0.00   1.11  0.00   0.00
Total IFC Held:    USS25.95
Total IFC Disbursed: US$5.56M
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
2002 MFB Yugoslavia     3.65  1.00   0.00   0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                         3.65  1.00  0.00    0.00



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - Proposed Private and Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit
Time taken to prepare:         7 months
Identification Mission:        October 2001
ICM Review:                    November 20, 2001
Pre-appraisal Mission:         January-February 2002
ROS Review:                    March 27, 2002
Negotiations:                  April 8-12, 2002
Board presentation:            May 21, 2002



Annex 5
Page I of 17
PRIVATE AND P5NANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
April 22, 2002
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C., 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
I.    Introduction
Following the successful resumption of membership in the World Bank in May 2001, and the
recent approval of the Consolidation Loans and Structural Adjustment Credit in January 2002,
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) is requesting support from the International
Development Association (the World Bank) for a first sectoral adjustment credit. As we have
expressed to you before, we believe that it is best to present the reforms of the two constituent
republics of Serbia and Montenegro separately for consideration for support from the World
Bank, as the process of transition in each of the republics varies in its pace, and specific
priorities. As such, this Letter of Development Policy (LDP) describes the main elements of the
reform program of the Republic of Serbia (Serbia) to be supported by a Private and Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC).
We firmly believe that the reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors are central to our
overall goal of rapid and comprehensive transition to a functioning market economy.
Consequently, policies supported by the PFSAC seek to enhance Serbia's macroeconomic
stability and prospects for private sector-led growth through: (i) strengthening the financial
system by restructuring troubled banks and improving the environment under which banks
operate; (ii) privatizing and restructuring state or socially owned enterprises that crowd out
private sector growth, and incur significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs; and (iii) improving the
business enabling environment for the newly emerging private sector. The enterprise and



Annex 5
Page 2 of 17
financial sector reform program is also embedded in the macroeconomic framework supported
by the Extended Fund Facility of thc Intcrnational Monctary Fund (IMF) sclhcduled to bc
approved by the IMF Board in early May 2002.
The constitutional arrangements outlining the relationship between FRY and its constituent
republics remain under revicw.  Therefore, the exact nature of some of the legislative
requirements to implement the reform program described below may continue to evolve in the
months to come. However, both the Federal Government and the Government of Serbia reaffirm
their commitment to the full implementation of the program regardless of the constitutional
structure of FRY.
Macroeconomic Framework As you are aware, FRY and Serbia began the renewed transition
to democracy and a market economy under very difficult economic and social conditions. These
conditions result from four decades of inefficient economic management based on non-market
institutions, further exacerbated by the decade of regional conflicts and sanctions that followed
the break-up of Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Since we came into office in late
2000-early 2001, we have taken bold steps to address this daunting legacy. This has involved a
two-pronged approach that combines stabilization measures with decisive steps in a
comprehensive agenda of structural reforms aimed at accelerating the long delayed transition.
Our policies have already brought visible improvements to key economic indicators, and we are
convinced we have begun to create the foundations for a more sustained economic recovery of
output and improved living standards. As in many other transition economies, initial changes are
most visible in exchange rate stability and reduced inflation. Following the brief surge in prices
caused by lifting of most administrative controls in late 2000, the inflation rate declined by two-
thirds to around 40 percent in 2001, with core inflation estimated at about 15-20 percent. By
end-2002, we expect inflation to be halved to around 20 percent, with core inflation at around 10
percent.
Economic growth shifted from the highly negative GDP rates of the past decade to 5 percent in
2000, and to an expected 6 percent in 2001. Growth in 2001 has been driven by the recovery of
the agricultural sector from the drought of 2000. In contrast, the industrial sector is estimated to
have contracted by around I percent in 2001, reflecting shifts in relative prices and the
establishment of harder budget constraints. Real GDP is projected to grow by 4 percent in 2002,
counting on the start of recovery in industrial growth.
With regard to foreign trade, export growth increased by a further 6 percent in 2001. Yet
imports grew by a robust 22 percent (in US dollar terms), primarily reflecting the provision of
donor financing, particularly for energy and essential consumer imports. This trade imbalance
has fueled the current account deficit to some 5 percent of GDP in 2001, figure that is expected
to improve in 2002. As of end-2001, gross official reserves amounted to about USS I. I billion,
having more than doubled from end-2000.
Overall budget performance has improved yet it remains precarious. The FRY fiscal deficit in
2001 is estimated at about 2.4 percent of GDP, compared with an original target of 6.1 percent
and a revised target of 4.0 percent of GDP in 2001. These improvements are due to higher than
ii



Annex 5
Page 3 of 17
expected rcvcnues at both federal and republican levcls, as well as containment of spending
below programmed levels in light of delays in foreign financing and scrvicing of foreign debt.
For 2002, we expect the FRY fiscal deficit to rise to somc 6 percent of GDP, mainly caused by a
shift forward from 2001 in spending that was tied to financing (including privatization proceeds)
expected to materialize in 2002.
Progress toward resolving the problem of external debt has also gained momentum in recent
months. In November 2001, we reached an agreement on the restructuring of USS5.4 billion of
Paris Club debt (roughly 40 percent of total external debt), involving a phased 66 percent
reduction in the net present value of obligations, and a rescheduling of the remainilg stock over
22 years with a six-year grace period. Negotiations to secure a debt restructuring agreement with
London Club creditors are currently underway.
Recent Progress in Structural Reforms. The initial progress in areas covered by the PFSAC are
described in detail in sections below. They include the resolution of insolvent banks, start of a
multi-track privatization program, and early efforts to improve the regulatory framework for
banking and enterprises. In addition, among the main areas of structural reform our governments
have made important progress in:
(a)  Price Liberalization, by freeing most market prices and restoring balance to product
markets, leaving only a small set of controls similar to that in most transition economies,
yet close to cost-recovery levels.
(b)  Foreign Trade Reform, by suppressing administrative controls and simplifying the tariff
regime, removing almost all foreign trade licenses and limiting the use of quotas, and
reforming customs to limit corruption and smuggling.
(c)  Public Expenditure Reform, by restoring and bringing efficiency to highly distorted public
expenditure management mechanisms, better aligning budget commitments with available
resources, and ensuring more transparent and efficient use of public and donor resources;
to this end, the recently approved Law on the Budget System establishes a comprehensive
framework for budget preparation, improves budget execution througlh a treasury system,
and strengthen the transparency of the budget through enhanced inspection, auditing and
procurement procedures.
(d)  Tax Reform, by sharply cutting the number of taxes and levies, widening the tax base, and
thus lowering key tax rates, and by taking initial steps to establish a modern tax
administration system. All of these measures will work to improve incentives, enhance
revenue collections and reduce possibilities for arbitrary application and corruption.
(e)  Energy Reform, by launching a phased program of revenue and cost containment measures
to return the Serbian electric utility (EPS) to financial self-sufficiency, improving the
efficiency of energy use, and reducing costs thanks to increased productivity.
(f) Social Protection and Labor Market Reforms, by launching the reform of the pension
system, which includes raising the retirement age and modifying the pension indexation
formula, which will work to better cushion the impact of adjustment on the poorest
members of society and to place these benefits on a more sustainable financial footing; at
the same time, recent reforms of labor markets, as summarized in new laws on labor and
iii



Ainnex 5
Page 4 of 17
cmploymcnt, arc expccted to reduce quasi-fiscal prcssurcs by removing structural
impedimcnts to cost containmcnt in thc cntcrprise sector and budget institutions.
11.   Banking Sector Reform
Context. The current condition of FRY's financial sector reflects thc extrnmc conditions of
interference and instability under which it operated during thc last decade. Pcrvasivc defaults
and widespread arrears, aggravated by economic sanctions, rcsulted in significant portions of the
banks' assets being either immobile or non-performing. Mismanagement of thc largest banks
took the form of directed credit decisions and was exacerbated by the control exercised over
these banks by some of the largc and troubled socially owned enterpr-ises (SOEs).
Following the 2000 elections, we decided that getting the right policies to restructure the
financial sector at an early stage of the transition was an utmost priority of oui governments.
Therefore, with decisive government support and strong leadership fiom the National Bank
Yugoslavia (NBY), we took important steps to assess the conditions of troubled banks and
effectively launched the implementation of a comprehensive banking sector reform progr-am. At
the core of this strategy is a far reaching banking resolution strategy that attempts to eliminate the
deep insolvency of the system, reestablish public confidence and adequate intermediation, and
attract new capital into what is envisioned to be a privately-owned modem banking system.
Nevertheless, restructuring of the banking sector represents a significant challenge to our
Governments. Not only the starting conditions are quite difficult, but the insolvenicy of most of the
banking sector (including all of the largest banks) is coupled by the insolvency of most large
enterprises. Yet, we consider that structural reforms in the financial and cntelprise sectors are
crucial to promote fiscal sustainability and eliminate macroeconomic imbalances, and therefore we
are committed to pursue them without delay. Therefore, since the beginning of 2001, we have
aggressively progressed from stock-taking, to planning, and theni to launching the most
significant parts of an ambitious financial sector reform program. The main components of the
program have been well articulated and the development of linkages of the banking sector
reforms to the enterprise restructuring and privatization is also underway. Substantial institution
building has taken place both at the NBY and at the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA),
supported by donors and by a Financial Sector Technical Assistance Grant fi-om the World Bank.
The key components of the financial sector reform program include: (i) implementation of a
rapid clean up of the banking system by closing and liquidating all insolvent and
undercapitalized banks; (ii) development of the BRA as an efficient mechanism for liquidating
banks assets; (iii) implementation of a social support program to mitigate the impact of lay-offs;
(iv) encouragement of the entry of foreign banks; (v) improvements to bank supervision and
regulation; and (vi) development of an explicit strategy to deal with the linkages of the bank
reform program to the enterprise restructuring and privatization.
Considerable progress was made in the implementation of all of the abovc-mentioned
components of the program. While we started the liquidation of a number of small and almost
completely inactive banks since mid-2001, particular emphasis was given to a detailed analysis
of the costs of resolving the four largest troubled banks. This analysis included a comprehensive
iv



Annex 5
Page 5 of 17
assessment of the impact of resolution scenarios ranging ftom rehabilitationi to outriglht closure
and liquidation.  As we expected, and despite taking into account potential benefits of reducing
foreign liabilities, we concluded that the only feasible route to address the problem of insolvency
of the large banks was liquidation as the costs of rehabilitation were excessively high, and their
sustainability hardly demonstrable.
Our decision to close the largest banks also resulted from the recognition that these banks had
ceased to play an important role in financing the economy, and that thle systemic impact of their
closure would be limited. Our decision was also driven by the unwillingness of the FRY and
Serbian governments to commit the substantial resources required to support the banks'
minimum liquidity.. We recognized that: (i) the banks had only limited payments functions
which could be assumed by other healthy banks; (ii) the costs of compensating depositors and
staff of the banks was very low when compared to the costs of rehabilitation; and (iii) even if
recapitalized, the institutional weaknesses and nonexistent franchise value of the banks would
have made them extremely unattractive candidates for future privatization.
We believe that our determination and the speed of reform in the financial sector have already
yielded impressive results. By the ftrst quarter of 2002, only one year after the start of the
governments' resolution program, we have: (i) initiated liquidation proceedings for the four
largest banks and for 19 small to medium-sized insolvent banks in Serbia -- together representing
61 percent of the assets and 82 percent of the off-balance sheet assets of the banking system; (ii)
issued rehabilitation decrees putting five banks under the administration of the BRA for
assessing the options for their restructuring and privatization, or liquidation; (iii) placed one bank
under the special administration of NBY's; and (iv) provided four solvent but undercapitalized
small banks with additional time to meet minimum capital standards until end 2002.
On the regulatory and institutional development side, our strategy called for important changes to
enhance the framework for bank resolution. Therefore, in September-2001 we modified the
legal framework for bank resolution to make the BRA the mandatory receiver for bank
liquidations. In parallel, the number and quality of staff in NBY's supervision and problem bank
units improved. Likewise, in close coordination with the World Bank, substantial efforts were
made to enhance the capabilities of the BRA.
Reforms supported by the PFSAC. In order to accomplish the ambitions reform agenda in the
financial sector, the FRY and Serbian governments, in coordination with the World Bank, the
IMF, and other donors, have put in motion a key set of reforms, including: (i) ongoing reforms
aimed at the closure and liquidation of insolvent banks; and (ii) ongoing reforms aimed at the
improving the regulatory framework of bank resolution. Specifically, the PFSAC supports the
withdrawal of the four largest banks' licenses and entry of the banks into bankruptcy, followed
by the appointment of the BRA as their bankruptcy administrator. In addition, the PFSAC will
support the completion of the resolution of additional 24 small and medium-sized banks found to
be insolvent (19 of which are already in bankruptcy), NBY's program for four small solvent
banks pending compliance with new minimum capital requirements, as well as efforts to enhance
the regulatory framework of bank resolution, including the already implemented decision to
allow the BRA to act as the court-appointed bankruptcy trustee for banks. These measures will
v



Annex 5
Page 6 of 17
provide an cssential foundation for thc dcvelopmcnt of an eftficient, rnodcrn and cffective
banking system.
Medium-term Reform Objecti"es. In the medium term, we intenid to complete the restr-ucturing
and privatization of the banking system and further strengthen the institutional capacity and
governance of the institutions responsible for the banking sector. Our medium-term reforms
efforts in bank resolution are aimed at redefining and minimizing the lcvel and type of state
intervention in the financial sector, making not only more transparent and non-distortioniary, but
a catalyst for prudent lending and competition. Briefly, during the next 12 to 20 montlhs we are
committed to pursue the following policies:
(a)  by September-2002, implementation of the resolution or privatization process for the four
small banks under the control of the BRA;
(b)  by September-2002, initiation of the resolution or privatization process for the two remaining
undercapitalized large banks;
(c)  by end-2002, definition of independent governance arrangements for banks with direct or
indirect majority state ownership; and,
(d)  by end-2003, privatization of most banks with direct or indirect majority state ownership,
including banks referred to in items a, b, and c above.
In addition to these measures, we intend to redefine the mechanism of bank rcsolution. While
2001 and 2002 were exceptional years due to the deep level of insolvenlcy of the system that we
inherited, we recognize that existing laws and institutions associated with bank failures have
often been seen as synonyms for government support to failed banks. In order to address this
issue, and make the resolution process more efficient and transparenit, we will seck changes in the
rehabilitation law to limit state sponsored bank rehabilitation as an option in resolvinig problem
banks. This will encourage banks to seek private-sector sources of recapitalization at an early date
or restructure themselves under direct NBY supervision, rather than defer action in the hope of
receiving funds through the rehabilitation process. Furthermore, we envision that in the near future
the role of the BRA will be limited to acting as the administrator of payments to insured depositors,
and as court-appointed bankruptcy trustee for banks. In brief, during the next 12 to 18 months,
and in consultation and agreement with World Bank, we are committed to pursue the following
policies:
(a)  by end-2002, ensure that the BRA has adequate operational funding to carry out its
functions;
(b)  by March 2003, amend applicable laws to limit bank rehabilitation to exceptional
circumstances that are economically justifiable; clarify the timeframe available for
recapitalization; evaluate the scope of the BRA activities; and reform the governance of the
BRA to include adequate representation of the banking sector, real sector, and the fiscal
authority; and,
(c)  by mid-2003, develop and commence implementation of a new deposit insurance scheme,
including an adequate financing plan to ensure its sustainability.
vi



Annex 5
Page 7 of 17
111.  Enterprise Sector Reform
Context. The legacy of socialism lcft FRY and Serbia with an uncompetitivc and inefficicnt
enterprise sector while the crisis of the past decade brought loss of markets and isolation from
technological advances. Moreovcr, Yugoslavia's model of "social" rather than state ownership,
coupled with a regime of soft-budgets constraints, made managers grown accustomed to expect
bailouts and continued financing from state banks. Throughout the past decade, the lack of
financial discipline was evidenccd by mounting bank arrears and outstanding trade credit.
During 2000, for instance, more than half of the firms had nlot paid theil- suppliers, including the
utilities, on time, and had their payment accounts with the Agency for Accounts and Payments
(ZOP) blocked.
To address these problems, in February 2001 we suspended the 1997 Serbian Privatization Law
and launched a wide-ranging privatization and restructuring program, based onl the new Law on
Privatization, which we drafted with the help of the World Bank, European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, and UK Department for International Development (DFID),
and adopted in June 2001. The main objective of the new legislation is the cash sale of 70
percent of the shares in each enterprise to a strategic investor, using a competitive process.
Under this approach, privatization is driven by the interest of investors and the viability of these
enterprises. As a result the process is somewhat slower but it is driven by market forces, in
contrast to the voucher based privatization programs in many other countries in the region. The
Law promulgates three methods to achieve the above mentioned objective: (i) privatization
tenders of large enterprises; (ii) auctions of medium sized enterprises; and (iii) restructuring and
subsequent tenders and/or auctions of enterprises that cannot be privatized as is. All major
enterprises being privatized will be subject to an environmental assessment, which will be
included in the information memorandum for each enterprise put on sale. In addition, medium
size enterprises being privatized will be screened to determine if an envir-onmental assessment is
required, and the results will be reflected in the privatization program for each enterprise to be
sold.
(a)  Tender Privatization. This method is being used for companies that are sufficiently large
and attractive to require a case-by-case approach for thcir privatization.  The most
important feature of this method is that 70 percent of the shares are offered for sale to a
strategic investor, while the rest will be used for other purposes, including free distribution
to employees and pensioners. To date, with support fiom the World Bank's US$6 million
Technical Assistance Grant and other donors, ncarly 60 enterprises have been selected for
the program.
(b)  Auction Privatization. Companies that are not sufficiently large or commercially attractive
to be sold under the tender process will be offered for sale through public auction. Having
reviewed the progress in auction program to date, , in consultation with the World Bank,
we plan to adopt a series of steps to enhance the program's implementation. In particular,
these steps will: (i) rationalize and streamline the process for valuation of companies with
the help of external consultants; (ii) improve the information flow to potential buyers
through a concerted marketing effort; and (iii) mitigate the risks associated with the
participation of local investors in the auction process. Aftcr we go through a limited
vii



Annex 5
Page 8 of 17
number of pilot auctions, we arc committed to revisc the Decree on Auctions and on the
basis of lessons learned before the program accelerates in 2003/04.
(c)  Restructutringfor Privatization. Enterprises which cannot not be sold thl-ough auction or
tender will undergo "restructuring for privatization". At present, wc have identificd some
40 large industrial conglomerates (so-called "systems") that havc suffered from ycars of
economic mismanagement, have high level of indebtedness, and largc excess capacity. It
is the consensus view in the Government that thcsc companies will have to be subjcct to
restructuring before they or their successor parts can be offered for sale by tcnder or
auction, or, in some cases, liquidated. The restructuring process will consist of three stages:
(i) preparation of feasibility study and due diligence report; (ii) implementation of the
feasibility study regarding organizational and financial restructuring, including possible
segmentation of the company into new companies created from the parts of the old one;
(iii) sale of the new companies and of assets remaining after the break up. We expect to
agree with the World Bank on the preparation of a new technical assistance loan designed
to provide the resources to both strengthen the capacity of the Privatization Agency's (PA)
ability to manage the restructuring/privatization process and to fund expert agents to help
restructure and privatize a number of systems.
We reiterate our policy and commitment to continue conducting all privatization transactions in a
transparent, competitive manner, as provided for in the Privatization Law and related regulations
on tenders and auctions. We are fully conscious that our strategy faces significant challenges.
First, as mentioned above, the legacy of social capital provides managers of enterprises with the
power to obstruct privatization as it is necessary that the SOE's General Assembly approve the
sale. In order to cope with this issue, we will submit to the Federal Parliament an amendment to
the Company Law which authorizes the Government to replace managers that refuse to
cooperate with privatization process. A second challenge relates to the social consequences in
firms that are unlikely to attract investors without prior restructuring. These firms will only have
a chance to play a productive role in the restructured economy if they are reconfigured into
smaller and leaner parts.  Clearly, the restructuring process requires dealing with labor
redundancies and redeployment, and high fiscal costs of severance and unemployment. Finally,
recognizing that scarce government resources should not be spent on subsidies to SOEs, we are
committed to imposing hard budget constraints and enforcing payment discipline.
In parallel to these efforts, we are actively engaged in drafting a modern bankruptcy law, which
we expect will be passed by this summer. However, we recognize that a new Law is a necessary
but insufficient condition for an effective bankruptcy system. As shown by the experiences
elsewhere in the region, building capacity in the courts and in the trustee community is a
prerequisite for a functioning bankruptcy process. In this regard, the ongoing and planned
technical assistance from USAID supports the Government's efforts towards building of
institutional capacity to implement the new bankruptcy law through the training of judges and
bankruptcy administrators.
An integral part of our enterprise reform program will be to address the social impact of
restructuring and privatization. In particular, the break-up and preparation for sale of the large
"systems", which presently employ around 150,000 workers, are likely to entail major labor
displacement. Preliminary analysis by the PA suggests that overall labor redundancy in the
viii



Annex 5
Page 9 of 17
systems is substantial, and efforts are being coordinated between the rclevant government
agencies to ensure that the detailed diagnostic for each enterprise identifies morc precisely likely
labor retrenchment levels and the labor force profile. This will Iesult in a labor redeployment
program as a key element of each system's restructuring plan, whlich will outline severance or
other packages for redundant workers and receive financing fi-om the republican budget.
Development of the program will be coordinated with firm managemcnt and the relevant trade
unions. Firm specific programs would be guided by the policy framework outlined in our Social
Program for employees dismissed during restructuring and privatization, which was approved by
the Government of Serbia in March 2002. The Program is intended to provide a menu of
compensation and redeployment options for dismissed workers in the large systems. Our
intention is that the Program be implemented in a manner that is consistent with the fiscal
situation, conducive to successful restructuring and privatization, and does not exceed available
budgetary resources. The Program will also be reviewed periodically in light of ongoing reforms
in the labor relations framework.
Reforms Supported by the PFSAC. The PFSAC will support ongoing reforms aimed at the rapid
divestiture of large and medium-sized SOEs, using best international practices that ensure
transparency, competitiveness, and appropriate sales techniques for the companies being
privatized. Consistent with the privatization methods we described above, 28 companies have
been contracted to investment banks which will prepare them for privatization sale to strategic
investors through open, competitive international tenders to foreign and domestic investors. At
least ten of the valuation and market assessment reports onl individual companies have been
completed by the investment banks. The results of these tenders will be decided on the basis of
selection criteria provided to bidders and consisting of a weighted total of price, guaranteed
investment commitment, debt assumption by the buyers and labor retention. At the same time,
nine smaller companies have been offered in auction with the winninlg bidder selected on the
basis of price alone, and eight more enterprises were anlouniced for auction on the basis of the
same criteria.
In parallel, the PFSAC will support the development of an improved legal and institutional
framework for enterprise privatization and restructuring. The Federal Government will submit to
the Parliament amendments to the Law on Enterprises that will permit the PA to intervene in
cases where the management and/or employees of enterprises seek to hinder the process of
ownership transformation. In addition, the PFSAC will support the drafting of a new insolvency
law which will allow the efficient liquidation of those enterprises which cannot be sold through
the normal privatization procedures. We are also working on a strategy paper for the
restructuring program, including the prioritization and segmentation of the list of "systems" and
further strengthening of the restructuring unit at the Ministry of Economy and Privatization
(MOEP)/. Also, the Government of Serbia will issue a decision widening the scope of the
decree on tax arrears to apply to privatizations by tender and restructuring. Finally, the PFSAC
will support our efforts to address the social impact of restructuring of the systems, through
definition of a framework Social Program, which will be refined during implementation in light
of the labor situation in the systems and the budgetary resources available to address it.
Medium-term Reform Objectives. We will continue and expand the tender privatization
component of the privatization program. By 2005, it is estimated that some 200 large enterprises
ix



Annex 5
Page IO of 17
can be brought into the tender program and either sold, restructured or become subjcct to
banlkruptcy proceedings. Following the amcndments to thc Enterpr-ise Law, amendmenllts will be
passed to the Privatization Law and the decrees on Auctions, Tenders and Rcstructuring to
further strengthen the Governmcnt's authority over the privatization process and to prcvent the
managing bodies in SOEs from obstructing their privatization process. Thesc amendments will
incorporate the lessons from the initial implementation period of auctions, tenders and
restructuring. Furthermore, as part of the packagc to amend the Privatization Law and related
regulations, we plan to address the issue of assumption of liabilities for past environmental
damages.
After having tested the auction process, we plan to accelerate the program and engage more
companies into the process. We expect that by end-2002, the 60 enterprises curTently in the
auction pipeline will be offered for sale, and at least another 100 will entcr the initial stages of
the process. By end-2003, we have a target of moving 1,000 enterprises into the auction process.
Although the overall target is to offer for sale all 4,000 slated enterprises by end-2005, we are
conscious that many of these SOEs may not find credible buyers and will have to be subject to
bankruptcy proceedings.
Finally, we will build the institutional capacity of the restructuring unit to manage the
restructuring agents, i.e., investment banks, consulting companies, workout companies and other
financial advisors, to implement each of the above mentioned stages of restructuring. We expect
to initiate pre-privatization restructuring of three systems in the course of 2002 usinig our funds,
and plan to start work on three more if the World Bank funds become available. We hope that
other donors will follow the model established under the newly proposed technical assistance
loan. The planned technical assistance loan by the World B1ank will provide financial resources
to fund restructuring agents to implement each of the three stages. Very importantly, as the
restructuring process gets underway, the social cost mitigation strategy outlined in the our Social
Program will be elaborated in implementation action plans to give more specific guidance to
firms, workers and public agencies involved in labor retrenchment programs. Program
implementation will take close account of available public resources, and the evolving general
entitlement framework for the unemployed.
IV.   Linkages Between Bank and Enterprise Reforms
Context. We have recognized very early the importance of addressing the linkages between
banking and enterprise sector reforms, and have worked for several months to develop an
adequate solution that facilitates both the ongoing liquidation of banks and the privatization of
SOEs. In this context, with the help of the World Bank and other donors, the BRA and the PA,
in cooperation with the Serbian Ministry of Finance (MoF), have now developed a joint
approach to "workout" the banks' bad assets (enterprise debts), which protects the interests of
the creditors of the bankrupt banks and does not hamper the privatization process.
Under the proposed scheme, debts owed to the bankrupt banks, as well as past-due tax
obligations owed by enterprises to be auctioned will be settled from the privatization proceeds,
and will not be the obligation of the buyer. The price paid at auction will represent the going
concern value of the SOE assets, minus debts which are to be assumed by the buyeT. Under the
x



Annex 5
Page II of 17
proposed structurc, the auction price is expected to be morc than tlc present value of liquidating
the company through bankruptcy because: (i) the auction process is fastcr tl7an court
administered liquidation; and (ii) the value of a company's assets is higher as palt of a going
concern. The crucial condition of the scheme is that the reclassification of debts occurs only as
an integral part of the closing transaction. If thc enterprisc is not sold, theln the dcbt write off
does not occur and the bankrupt banks and the MoF maintain their claims against the SOE.
From the perspective of the BRA, as bankruptcy administrator, the strategy relies on the premise
that realizable value of the claims owing to the bankrupt banks by the cntcrprises being
privatized will be lower through enforcement actions (including bankruptcy) than the alternative
of receiving proceeds from the sale of those enterprises as "on-going concerns". Reduced to its
basics, the joint strategy allows enterprises to be auctioned "free and clear" from any amounts
owing to the BRA banks or historical debts to the MoF and other state creditors. Instead, the
BRA and the PA have agreed that for enterprises to be sold by auction, sale proceeds will be
apportioned between the BRA and other state creditors on the basis of an agreed upon formula.
For enterprises which are to be sold by tender, or which are to be restructured prior to being
offered for sale, the BRA and the PA will negotiate the treatment of debt owing to the BRA
banks on case by case basis with the help of the financial advisors working on the particular
enterprise. It should be stressed that the write off of the debt is part of the closing of the
privatization sale. If there is no sale there will be no write off. To protect the interests of the bank
creditors from the possible consequences of protracted delays, the agreement between the BRA
and the PA contains stringent time limits (18 months), so if an enterprise does not enter one of
the privatization processes within the specified time period, the BRA is free to pursue alternative
remedies against the enterprise borrower. This is an important source of financial discipline
since it is expected to motivate enterprises to voluntarily enter the restructuring and privatization
processes.
The BRA is presently cooperating with the PA in its specific legal capacity as bankruptcy
administrator of the four large bankrupt banks. As such, its strategy to realize the maximum
value of the loan portfolio of the banks is subject to the approval of a bankruptcy panel
consisting of three judges, as well as to challenge by any of the bankruptcy creditors. The
agreement between the two agencies is unique in Yugoslav jurisprudence, and the support of the
judges, who tend to be quite conservative, cannot be guaranteed unless the applicable laws are
amended accordingly.  In the meantime, there is a risk that therc may be delays in the
privatization program while an alternative arrangement is put in place to reconcile the interests of
the two groups of creditors. To guard against this possibility, the PA and the BRA, supported by
the MOEP and NBY, are currently seeking to adopt the necessary lcgal/regulatory measures to
ensure that the principles of the scheme are fully implemcnted.
Reforms Supported by the PFSA C. The PFSAC supports the development of an improved legal
and institutional framework to resolve the non-performing loans in the portfolios of banks under
liquidation, while at the same time facilitating the privatization process of the indebted
enterprises. In this regard, the proposed operation supports the agreement between the PA and
BRA on a suitable framework, as evidenced by a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), for
settling creditor claims of enterprises that are indebted to one or more of the BRA-held banks
under liquidation.
xi



Annex 5
Page 12 of 17
Medium-term Reform Objectives. As the privatization program gathcls momlentum, and the
BRA gains a better understanding of the extent and quality of the loan portfolios of the four large
banks for which it has been appointed as bankruptcy administrator, the BRA and the PA are
expected to deepen their working relationship.  The partics are examining the necessary
legalregulatory measures which will support the implementation of the principles of the MOU.
Improvements in the framework will provide a legal framework to the principles of the MOU; in
particular, the law will provide the PA with additional powers to manage the pace of the process,
as well as possibly encouraging the more rapid privatization of particular sectors or enterprises.
The PA will develop a joint strategy with the BRA under which the BRA can use the threat of
foreclosure and bankruptcy actions against enterprises indebted to the bankrupt banks to provide
an incentive to those enterprises to start their privatization process. We expect to use the powers
of the BRA to file for bankruptcy, if necessary, against enterprises that either were auctioned,
clear and free of BRA and tax debt, and did not attract any buyer or did not cooperate with the
PA in the privatization process.
V.    Banking Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework
Context. Over the past decade, the NBY's capacity to oversee the health of the banking system
has severely deteriorated. Although the banking law and regulations were generally appropriate
for the existing system at the beginning of the decade, the legislative framework rapidly became
antiquated. Given the duress of the system and the conditions under which banking supervision
operated, the process of supervision devolved into a substantially mechanical, compliance based
function without the capacity or tools necessary to assess risks in the system and individual
banks' operating condition and solvency.  All of these elements combined allowed poor
management and imprudent practices to pervade the banking system.
Since the changes in the NBY management in late 2000, substantial attention has been devoted
to the need for strengthening of legislative and supervisory framework for the banking sector.
The first stage of reform required banking supervision to conduct a diagnostic process through
which unviable institutions were identified and referred to the BRA for potential rehabilitation or
liquidation. Additionally, banks which were considered substantially weak were placed in the
NBY's newly formed Problem Bank Unit (PBU). Other banks not considered candidates for the
PBU were given corrective action instructions. All of these activities placed extraordinary
demands on the NBY which it met through extended hours, the employment of new staff, and the
assistance of international technical support.
Mainly with assistance from the USAID, commendable efforts havc been taken by the NBY to
rebuild bank supervision. One of the important first steps was the diagnostic examination
process itself This work not only produced the needed results to act and restructure the banking
system, but it also provided the supervisors with substantial on-the-job training.  New
examination reports and a CAMEL rating system were introduced to help evolve supervision
toward a more risk based approach. Comprehensive training for each of these elements has been
conducted. Most recently, the NBY has conducted a self assessment of its compliance with the
core principles for banking supervision.
xii



Annex 5
Page 13 of 17
During the initial period of bank restructuring, thc first changes to bankinlg lcgislation werc
introduced.  Last year, certain sections of the Rchabilitation Law were amended, most
importantly the requirement to appoint the BRA as the automatic rccciver in the case of bank
bankruptcy. Currently, amendments to the Law on Banks and Other Finalncial Organizations
and a revised Law on the NBY have been submitted to the Federal Parliament. Likewise, new
and amended prudential regulations have been prepared and will be approved by the Governor of
the NBY following parliamentary approval of the above changes to the Law on Banks.
The changes to the laws and prudential regulations will serve to strengthen the oversight capacity
of the NBY and to tighten banks' operating requirements, as well as redefine the NBY authority
to take the specific corrective actions. Specifically, the authority of the NBY to require banks to
remedy unsafe and unsound banking practices will be pivotal to the application of risk-based
supervision and to the supervisors' ability to address developing risks before they ultimately
threaten the viability of the institution. Additional prudential regulations that support the above
mentioned laws have been prepared, but their approval is likewise pending Parliament's passage
of the laws. These specific regulations will further define and implement limitations and
requirements in the areas of loan classification and provisions, capital and capital limits, credit
risk management, internal control and internal audit requirements, and regulatory reporting
refinements. In addition to the above, a regulation which directs banks to comply with and set
up procedures to meet the requirements of the recently approved Anti-Money Laundering law is
expected to be prepared and approved by the NBY/Federal Ministry of Finance.
Reforms supported by the PFSAC. By mid-April 2002, we will implement the following
measures supported by PFSAC: (i) continued reform of the legal framework, including
amendments to the banking law, revision of the Law on NBY, and revised prudential regulations;
and (ii) NBY's ongoing efforts to improve the existing supervisory work, including the
completion of the self assessment of compliance with the Core Principles for Effective
Supervision, introduction of a CAMEL rating system, and procedures for NBY's problem bank
unit.
Medium-term Reform Objectives. With the banking sector reform and restructuring steps
underway, further strengthening of bank supervision must be actively pursued, with the objective
to build the supervisory process into an effective, forward looking function. Therefore, it is
critical that a framework for development be prepared and endorsed by the NBY. In cooperation
with the World Bank, a supervisory development plan (SDP) with medium to long term
objectives will be prepared, capturing assistance provided by the international advisors, and
building on the momentum generated so far.
As part of the SDP, the legal framework will continue to be reviewed. The above mentioned
legislative changes will go far to enhance the authorities and capacity of the NBY and bank
supervision. However, they represent only the initial steps in a continually evolving process as
additional changes year are anticipated in order to bring legislation closer to EU standards.
Implementation of the above mentioned amendments will require comprehensive training for
both the supervisors and bank management.  Objectives for further legislative changes,
application, and training therein will be developed as a part of the SDP.
xiii



Annex 5
Page 14 of 17
Reform of bank and regulatory accounting mcthods, the supervisor's role in ensuring accurate
and truthful disclosure of banks' financial position and condition, and the adoption of
International Accounting Standards (IAS) for banks and other finalcial institutions arc also
featured prominently on our reform agenda. Plans to cvaluate tlhesc issues and to support
migration of current bank accounting to IAS will be prepared in thc medium term.
VI.   Business Environment Reform.
Context. The return to growth of the FRY economy requires a business envir-onmcent conducive
to the development of the private sector. Scrbia's entrepreneurial cncrgics are among its greatest
assets for economic recovery, and already contribute significantly to growth. The private sector,
including the informal sector, by 2001 accounted for two-thirds of GDP, although it employed
less than 10 percent of capital. Registered SMEs employed about 610,000 workers in Serbia by
end-2000, or about 44 percent of all formal employment. A very large informal economy has
emerged, accounting for perhaps one-third of GDP, and employing as many as one million
workers. By all measures, the private sector is far more efficient and profitable than firms under
state, mixed or social ownership.
However, the dominant role played by the Serbian private sector in generating wealth is a sign of
its great resiliency rather than of a supportive business environment. As evidenced by several
enterprise surveys, the business environment in Serbia is less than conducive to private
investment. As a consequence, many private businesses have found it extremely difficult to
grow and have resorted to operating in the gray economy. Small and medium enterprises have
been most exposed to the adverse impact of unfavorable business environment.
Since we came into office, many positive steps have bcen taken to construct tile fiamework of
credible rules, legal systems, and institutions needed for a market economy. The reforms of
trade policy enacted in December 2000 and May 2001 introduced liberalization and deregulation
of the foreign trade. A number of important tax reforms were adopted by the Serbian Parliament
in April 2001. Very importantly, the recent reform of labor legislation provides incentives for
business to move from the informal to formal sector.
Despite these initial steps in deregulation, the outstanding business environment reform agenda
remains challenging. Our strategy aims for broad and systematic deregulation and withdrawal of
the state from inappropriate intervention into business decisions, along with institutionalization
of quality controls inside the public administration to ensure that future regulatory decisions are
consistent with competitive markets. Through its implementation, we hope to: (i) accelerate
economic growth, job creation, and regional development, with particular focus on SMEs, and
thereby ameliorate the social costs of restructuring in state-owned enterprises; (ii) promote
foreign and domestic investment; and (iii) reduce the size and scope of the gray economy by
reducing disincentives for businesses to become formal.
In order to address issues of deregulation of business entry and operations, we have created an
Inter-Ministerial Committee on Deregulation, coordinated by the MOEP to coordinate a
government-wide strategy to reduce barriers for business. The Committee's short-term agenda,
xiv



Annex 5
Page 15 of 17
developed in consultations with the SME Advisory Board, a group of private entrepreneurs
advising the MOEP, includes intcr alia the following measures:
(a)  Reforming the butsiness registration system. The curTent busincss registration systems are
costly, semi-regulatory, and ineffective in supporting legitimate public policies. The
Federal Law on Enterprises and Scrbian Law on Private Entrepreneurs impose a heavy
burden on SMEs, including numerous and costly inspections prior to the start up of
business operations. The planned reform of the business registration system will replace
the ex ante inspections with discretionary ex post inspectionis, that is, inspections done at
the discretion of the ministries after the business has begun activity. Ex ante inspections
will still be required for businesses that safety and health risks.
(b)  Reduiction of cash management restrictions.  Private firms require flexibility in cash
management to avoid the risk of cash-flow problems. Current legal restrictions on the
amount of cash withdrawals from business accounts are inconsistent with a liberalized
financial system and are scheduled to be eliminated and simplified.
Parallel to these efforts, we recognize that limited access to capital is one of the most severe
constraints to private sector development. The financial difficulties of the large state-owned
banks have precluded the financial sector to respond to the growing demands of the private
sector. Private banks that have recently emerged are still small, and offer mostly short-term
working capital credits to a small number of most credible clients. In addition to the broader
reforms in the financial sector, the legal and regulatory framework needs to provide the right
incentives for banks and non-bank financial institutions to finance the private sector. The near-
term reform agenda of the government includes the following measures:
(a)  System of secured,financing. The Federal Law on Contracts and Torts contains only basic
provisions on pledge, and does not enable more sophisticated types of security to be
undertaken. Moreover, the lack of public records impedes third parties to assess a potential
debtor's existing security over its property. Finally, enforcement of security and recovery
of collateral is ineffective. Our objective is to create a modern, enabling, legal and
institutional framework to support sophisticated credit transactiolns, whichl involve
movable property as collateral, i.e., inventory, equipment, accounts and consumer goods.
The establishment of the system of secured financing is supported by the donor
community, chiefly by the EBRD and USAID. Our short-term reform program focuses on
drafting the Law on Secured Transactions, including regulation of the Pledge Registry,
ensuring consistency with other relevant commercial laws and regulations, and consulting
broadly within the Government and with lawyers, judges, and businesses.
(b)  Non-bank financing. To support the creation of non-bank financial institutions such as
insurance and leasing companies, we plan to review existing relevant laws and regulations
to ensure the observance of adequate regulatory and supervisory standards for the
development of insurance and leasing operations (e.g., legal treatment of the ownership,
tax incentives, and accounting practices regarding amortization of leased equipment by the
lessor). In addition, we will also review draft regulations that would allow the development
of adequately supervised micro-finance institutions.
xv



Annex 5
Page 16 of 17
In terms of facilitating busincss-government dialogue and improving institutional capacity for
SME support, an Inter-Ministerial Committee on Dcregulation and an SME Advisory Board
have been created with support from the World Bank and other donors. Following broad
consultations with local stakeholders and donors, the Law on the Agency for tlc Development of
Small and Medium Enterprises was enacted by the Serbian Parliament. We are currently
working on a strategy and business plan for the Agcncy. In parallel, we are working to establish
a network of Regional SME Agencies, with the emphasis on the participation of local
stakeholders, including local authorities, business associations, clhambers of commerce, banks,
and universities. This approach creates the sense of a public-privatc partnerslhip with respect to
SME development and is fully consistent with best practices in local economic development
which favor more delegation and decentralization. At prcsent, eight regionial Agencies are being
established with the support of key donors. Eventually, the Agencics will operate in all 15
regions of Serbia and are expected to serve as agents for implementinig the Government's SME
policy at the regional and municipal levels.
Reforms supported by the PFSAC. The PFSAC will support reform effolts aimed at: (i)
deregulation of business entry and operations; (ii) enhancing private business access to finance;
and (iii) improving institutional capacity for SME support and busincss-government dialogue. In
particular, the proposed operation will support the first phase in simplification of business
registration system and the elimination of cash management restrictions. In addition, the credit
will support the introduction of a system of secured financing, including the establishment of
legal framework for secured transactions and capacity for implementation. Finally, the credit will
support the development of strategy for strengthening the institutional capacity of SME support
infrastructure and for institutionalization of business-government consultativc mechanlism .
Medium-term Reform Objectives. The reforms described above are impoltant initial steps in a
medium-to-long term program aimed at creating a modern business environment fiamework
which would be conducive to private sector led growth. By the end of 2002, the Government
plans to:
(a)  develop a coherent SME development strategy that would facilitate new business entry,
lower transaction costs for business, and encourage foreign direct investment;
(b)  prepare a draft law replacing the registration systems regulated by the Enterprise Law and
the Law on Private Entrepreneurs with a single, more efficient business registration
system;
(c)  enact the Law on Secured Transactions and establish centralized computerized pledge
registry operating as public information provider;
(d)  submit for Parliament's approval amendments to the statutory fi-amework for leasing
operations;
(e)  enact an adequate regulatory framework for micro-finance institutions; and,
(f)  improve transparency and regulatory impact analysis by adopting changes to the legislative
process to require that draft laws and regulations that affect business be reviewed at an
early stage by the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Dcregulation, and the SME Advisory
Board.
xvi



Annex 5
Page 17 of 17
VII. Conclusion
As we have outlined in this LDP, there arc considerabic challcnges to reforming the FRY
enterprise and financial sectors. Yet, we hope the above described policics highlight not only the
series of decisive short-term measures we have taken to tackle these problems, but our
commitment to a sustained and coherent medium-term agenda of structural reforms. While we
are confident we are embarked on an appropriate course of action, we are also aware that the
reforms in the enterprise and financial sector require substantial planning, proper sequencing
with other areas of reform, and most importantly, a sustained and coherent reform effort that is
supported by efficient institutions and adequate regulatory environment. In closing, we would
like to firmly reiterate our belief that the main elements of our reform program in the enterprise
and financial sectors are central to our overall goal of rapid and comprehenisive transformation to
a market economy. Consequently, continued support of the World Bank and the international
community will be remain crucial to the success of this objective.
Miroijub Labus                       Bozidlr Qp&
Deputy Prime Minister           Minister of Finance and Economy
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia           Republic of Serbia
Mladjan Dinki6                    Aleksandar Vlahovic
Governor                 Minister of Economy and Privatization
National Bank of Yugoslavia             Republic of Serbia
xvii






Annex 6
Page 1 of 11
FRY PFSAC POLICY MATRIX
1. BANKING SECTOR REFORM
Objective/Policy                        Current Status                             Actions prior to Board             Technical
Reform Area                                                                           Presentation              Assistance provided
by Bank and other
donors
Resolution of Large    Four large banks were put under the administration of the BRA  Decision  by  the  Government to  WB FSD TA Grant,
Banks                  for either restructuring or liquidation. A detailed analysis of the  liquidate the four insolvent large  DFID, US Treasury
costs of the resolution of these banks has been completed. The  banks,  including  (i)  NBY's
main conclusion of the exercise is that the only feasible route to  withdrawal of licenses; and  (ii)
resolve the problem of insolvency of the large banks is liquidation  appointment  of  the  BRA  as
as the costs of rehabilitation are excessively high and non-  bankruptcy administrator.
financeable.
Resolution of other    The NBY started resolution proceedings for some 24 small and  Decision by the Government on the  WB FSD TA Grant,
troubled banks         medium-sized banks that were found to be deeply insolvent: (i) 19  resolution of 24 small and medium-  DFID, US Treasury
of which are already in bankruptcy (four of which with the BRA  sized  banks  presently  under
as bankruptcy administrator); and (ii) rehabilitation decrees have  BRA/NBY control, leading to their
been issued for five banks which are under the administration of liquidation or rehabilitation.
the BRA for either restructuring or liquidation.
In addition, four solvent but undercapitalized banks will be given  Decision by the NBY establishing a
a definitive deadline (to be enforced before end-2002) to meet deadline for four small solvent banks
minimum capital standards.                              that are pending compliance with new
minimum capital requirements.
Improved Framework     Amendments to the BRA law and Law on Bank Rehabilitation  Parliamentary approval of decision to  WB FSD TA Grant,
for Bank Liquidation   have been passed and the BRA has been appointed bankruptcy  allow the BRA to act as the court-  DFID, US Treasury
administrator in eight cases (four large banks and four appointed bankruptcy trustee for banks.
small/medium sized banks) so far.
1 Core conditions listed in Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement are shown in bold font.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 11
11. REFORM OF SOCIALLY OWNED ENTERPRISES
Objective/Policy Reform             Current Status                          Actions prior to Board              r Technical Assistance
Area                                                                    Presentation                     provided by Bank and
other donors
2.1 Privatization of Socially-Owned Enterprises
Tender Privatizations    Requests for Proposals (RFPs) issued for Twenty-eight companies in six pools contracted to  WB  PSD  TA  Grant,
selection of sales agents for six pools, investment banks for privatization preparation and  The  Netherlands,
totaling 28 companies. Six more pools sale, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. At least ten  Sweden
totaling 30 more companies will be of the valuation and market assessment reports on
tendered for investment bank /sales agent individual companies completed by the investment
advisors under the Dutch and Swedish banks.
grants in February. The government has
recently completed the sale of three large
cement companies to strategic investors
for about $140 million, using transparent
and competitive tender procedure.
Auction Privatizations   The PA has selected and is preparing 60  Nine enterprises offered for sale at auction in a manner  GTZ, UNDP
enterprises for auctions to be held and  satisfactory to the Bank.
completed by December 31, 2002.
Another eight enterprises announced and prepared for
auction to be sold on the same general terms.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 11
II. REFORM OF SOCIALLY OWNED ENTERPRISES
Objective/Policy Reform               Current Status                        Actions prior to Board            TA provided by Bank
Area                                                                    Presentation                    and other donors
2.2 Improvement of the legal and institutional framework for the privatizationlrestructuring/liquidation of enterprises
Improve the procedures for The  law  governing  the  insolvency  of A draft of a new insolvency law prepared and  USAID, GTZ
the  efficient  and  timely  enterprises is outmoded  and  inefficient. distributed for comments to the concerned
liquidation  of  enterprises  Proposals to support a more modern law have  ministries  in the  federal and  republican
which are not saleable by  been prepared.                           governments, the NBY  and other interested
auction or tender                                                   parties and for review by the Bank.
Amend the Enterprise Law   The current legislative framework does not Submission  by the Federal Ministry  of
to facilitate the          permit the government to permit ownership  Economy  and  Trade   to  the   Federal
privatization process      transformation to proceed notwithstanding the  Parliament of amendments to the Law on
opposition  from  the   management   of Enterprises that wIll permit the Government
enterprises. The PA has formed a working  to intervene in cases where the management
group to prepare amendments to the law to  and/or employees of enterprises seek to
give the Government the necessary powers to  hinder  the  process  of   ownership
intervene.                               transformation. The proposed amendments
will need to be acceptable to the Bank.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 11
11. REFORM OF SOCIALLY OWNED ENTERPRISES
Objective/Policy Reform               Current Status                         Actions prior to Board             TA provided by Bank
Area                                                                     Presentation                    and other donors
Non-current tax debts      The Ministry of Finance has issued a decree  Amendment by the Ministry of Finance of the  N/A
(excluding social fund     which allows enterprises being sold by auction  decree on tax arrears to apply to privatizations
arrears) should be forgiven as  to be able to remove any tax arrears incurred  by tender and restructuring on a case-by-case
part of the closing transaction  prior to December 31, 2000 from their books. basis.
It is anticipated that these arrears will be offset
by sales proceeds from privatization. This
decree needs to be extended to apply, on a
case-by-case basis, to other forms of
privatization.
Strengthen the institutional  The MOEP/PA has established a restructuring  Preparation by the MOEP/PA of a strategy for  WB  TA  Loan  for
framework for enterprise   department to  conduct the   restructuring  restructuring, including the prioritization and  WB   TA tLoang
restructuring              process for large industrial conglomerates  segmentation of the list of "Systems" and further enterprise  restructuring
("Systems") prior to privatization but this  strengthening of the restructuring department at (under preparation)
department is understaffed and lacks a plan to  MOEP/PA.
implement its mandate.
2.3 Mitigating the social costs of restructuring and privatization
Mitigate the social costs of Although a new Labor Law has been passed  Government approval of a framework Social
enterprise restructuring and  the social impact of enterprise restructuring/ Program for mitigating the social consequences
privatization              privatization  has  not  been  adequately  of privatization and restructuring in the systems
addressed. The  Ministry  of Labor and   which is consistent with available resources and
Employment has developed a draft of the  subject to  periodic  review  in  light  of
Social Program  outlining the social cost implementation progress.
mitigation measures.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 11
III. BANK ASSETS AND ENTERPRISE WORKOUTS
Objective/Policy Reform Area               Current Status                        Actions prior to Board            TA provided by
Presentation                  Bank and other
donors
Create a framework to ensure     BRA and PA have discussed a Memorandum  Agreement between the PA and BRA on a    WB FSD TA Grant
that the obligations of the BRA, as  of Understanding (MOU) under which the  suitable framework, as evidenced by a
the liquidator of banks with large  BRA would suspend enforcement of its right MOU, for settling  creditor claims of
exposures to enterprises to be  to collect on loans due from enterprises which  privatized enterprises that are indebted to
privatized, can be fulfilled in a  are to be privatized auction or tender, in  one or more of the BRA-held banks under
manner which does not adversely  exchange for a proportion of the privatization  liquidation.
affect the privatization objectives  proceeds. The Agencies are contemplating a
of the Privatization Agency, and  formula approach  for enterprises to be
does not adversely   affect the  auctioned and a case by case negotiation
interests of the creditors of the  procedure for enterprises which are to be sold
banks under liquidation          by tender or as a result of restructuring.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 11
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR REGULATORY AND SUPERVISORY FRAMEWORK
Objective/Policy          Current Status                                Actions prior to Board                       TA provided by
Reform Area                                                                Presentation                            Bank and other
donors
4.1 Improvement of regulatory framework for the banking sector
Improve     the  The legal framework for commercial  Submission to the Federal Parliament of amendments to the existing  USAID
existing Law on   banking and bank supervision is "Law on Banks and Other Financial Institutions". These amendments
Banks and Other   contained in two major laws, the Law  will include:
Financial         on  Banks  and  other  Financial * Enhanced definition of ownership acquired specifically through the form
Institutions     Institutions and the Law  on the     of gifts and the lack of recognition, by the NBY, of the increase in
National Bank of Yugoslavia. A      capital funds through that process;
number of amendments have been   * Definition of equity capital to exclude shares purchased through
prepared to update the regulatory   advancing bank own funds (loan); prohibit the recognition of an
framework in line with international  increase of capital funds through the reallocation of reserves back to
best practice and European Union    capital at year end;
standards.                       * NBY authority to implement regulations on internal controls, internal
audit functions, and loan policy and procedures;
* Redefine the minimum ongoing capital requirement for banks as 5 min
Euro and the increase of that requirement to 10 mln Euro on December
31, 2003;
* Strengthen limitations on investment in legal entities and largc credit
exposures;
* Strengthen NBY approval requirements for bank management;
* Strengthen the disclosure requirement for provision expenses taken by
banks (representing a start to needed clarification and disclosure of bank
accounting and financial position).



Annex 6
Page 7 of 11
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR REGULATORY AND SUPERVISORY FRAMEWORK
Objective/Policy      Current Status                                Actions prior to Board                           TA provided by
Reform Area                                                            Presentation                                Bank and other
donors
Revise the                                 Submission to the Federal Parliament of the revised "Law on the NBY". These  USAID
existing NBY                               amendments will include:
Law                                        *   Expanded provisions for the nomination, election, and termination of the
Governor, Deputy Governor, and Supervisory Board;
*   NBY authorization to sell short term securities;
*   Right of NBY to conduct examinations of connected legal entities of banks, and
other financial institutions;
*   Definition of the types of corrective actions available to the NBY:
admonishment, executive order, order for correction of detected irregularities
(and to impose a fine), conservatorship, and withdrawal of working license;
*   Conditions for withdrawing working license, invoking conservatorship,
termination of management and supervisory boards rights, and rights and terms
of the conservatorship.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 11
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR REGULATORY AND SUPERVISORY FRAMEWORK
Objective/Policy           Current Status                             Actions prior to Board                      TA provided by
Reform Area                                                              Presentation                           Bank and other
donors
Introduction of new  The    NBY     has    prepared  New/revised NBY prudential regulations following the parliamentary  USAID, Bundesbank
prudential regulations  recommendations for seven new or  approval of the above laws on banking and on the NBY. These
for commercial banks  revised  prudential  regulations  regulations include:
(decisions).  These regulations,  *  Asset classification and the amount of loan loss provisions;
which substantially strengthen and  *  More specific definition and calculation of capital, capital
clarify supervisory authority and  adequacy, and capital based limits;
guidance to banks, are pending  *  Credit and debtor documentation requirements;
approval by the NBY. The needed  *  Credit risk management requirements;
approvals are contingent upon the  *  Requirements for internal control units and procedures;
Federal Parliament's passage of the  *  Requirements for internal audit function and procedures;
above changes to law.           *  Regulatory reporting requiremcnts;
* Credit information systems.
In addition to the above, a regulation which directs banks to comply
with and set up procedures to meet the requirements of the recently
approved Anti-Money Laundering law to be prepared by the NBY/Fed.
Ministry of Finance.
4.2 Improvement of supervisoryframeworkfor the banking sector
Strengthening of     The NBY is working to build an  Steps undertaken by the NBY to improve existing supervisory  USAID
supervisory capacity  effective and responsive risk based  framework:
of the NBY           supervisory  function  through  *   Completion of self-assessment of compliance with the Basle Core
increased  staffing,  institutional  Principles for Effective Supervision;
changes, and intense training.  *   Introduction of a CAMEL rating system and a new examination
report format;
*   Establishment of policy and procedures for the Problem Bank
Unit, defining thresholds and process for banks entering and
exiting the unit, and setting monitoring and subsequent
supervisory actions.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 11
V. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM
Objective/Policy Reform Area               Current Status                        Actions prior to Board           TA provided by Bank
Presentation                   and other donors
5.1 Deregulation of business entry and operations
Elimination of barriers to business  The current business registration systems  Appropriate amendments to the Federal Law  WB PSD TA Grant,
entry through reform of the business  are costly, burdensome and inefficient. In  on Enterprises that will eliminate provisions  USAID
registration system              this respect the Federal Law on Enterprises  forming  the  basis for the  preliminary
and  the  Republican  Law  on   Private inspections that delay start up of business
Entrepreneurs pose a particularly heavy  operations submitted by the Federal Ministry
burden on SMEs because they provide for of Economy and Trade.
an excessive number of preliminary
inspections for each new business start up.  Comparable amendments to the Republican
Law on Private Entrepreneurs drafted by the
MOEP and submitted to the Republican
Parliament.
Elimination of cash management At present cash withdrawals from business  Decision  removing  restrictions  on  cash
restrictions                     accounts are limited to - Euro 100 per day, transactions starting July 1, 2002 passed by
which imposes unjustified restrictions on  NBY.
business operations.



Annex 6
Page 10 of II
V. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM
Objective/Policy Reform                   Current Status                        Actions prior to Board        TA provided by Bank
Area                                                                        Presentation                and other donors
5.2 Improving enterprise access to finance
Introduction of a system  of The  Government's  reform   agenda  for  the  A Federal Law on Secured Transactions, EBRD, USAID
secured financing            introduction of a secured financing system entails the  including regulation on Pledge Registry,
following components: (i) developing the legal  drafted and submitted for review within
framework  -   adopting  a  Law  on  Secured  the Government, the NBY, and to the
Transactions and a Law on Pledge Registry and  Bank.
ensuring consistency with other relevant commercial
laws and regulations; and (ii) building institutional
capacity for the implementation of a secured
financing system - establishing a centralized
computerized pledge registry operating as a public
information   providcr;  improving   judicial
understanding of the new legal provisions and their
means of enforcement.
Introduction  of non-banking  The Center for Legal Reform under the Ministry for Review  of  regulatory  framework  WB  PHRD   Grant,
forms of financing: leasing and  Foreign Economic Relations of Serbia has formed a  including proposals for legal amendments  SEED
microfinance                 Working Group to assess whether the existing  required  for elimination  of existing
regulatory framework is conducive for leasing  constraints  on  leasing  operations
operations and othcr forms of non-bank financing.  submitted  for  review  within  the
Government, the NBY, and to the Bank.



Annex 6
Page 11 of 11
V. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT REFORM
Objective/Policy Reform Area              Current Status                        Actions prior to Board          TA provided by Bank
Presentation                  and other donors
5.3 Improving investment climate
Improving the climate for     The Government is working on improvements  Enactment of the Federal Law on Foreign  FIAS
foreign direct investment     to the regulatory framework for FDI which  Direct Investment.
would remove the existing conditions for
special approval, introduce clear procedures
for international arbitration and remove
distortionary incentives.
5.4 Facilitating business-government dialogue and improving institutional capacity
Strengthening the institutional  The institutional capacity for the dcvelopment Enactment of the Law on the Agency for  WB  PSD  TA  Grant,
framework for the SME sector  of the SME sector remains weak. The Draft the Development of Small and Medium     EAR
Law on the Agency for the Development of Enterprises.
Small and Medium Enterprises has been
drafted, discussed with donors community and
local  stakeholders  and  submitted  for
consideration of the Parliament of the
Republic of Serbia.






IBRD 31506
180            190           200            210            22'           23'
HUN     ARY                            I         FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Arad    OF YUGOSLAVIA
0:,ass g                      t   +an iza_ \ __  EUROPEAN HIGHWAYS  460
MO   Seit.t|',Klk- OTHER CLASS I HIGHWAYS
B ~~~~~~~in                  P~~~~--- AILWAYS
6or Topolc  Ado  da ~~~~~~~~'fAIRPORTS
~~ a) i Becel ifi Ut=_iTimisoa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ra 
v 0                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TOWNS
X1) .    .    .    .   .        0+ \KuagISrobonof / }............................... REPUBLIC OR PROVINCE CAPITALS
*  NATIONAL CAPITALS
CROAA                      0 lOeei             f          -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
{ iu ~~~~~~Bac \         nnnin a                     REPUBLIC BOUNDARY
-;>- Vi- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A6:                         in ima}  @\la_    DJ                              450
j  s  ^    \9\ \ > t        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bela 
:3              FYako  Z  FrrnAeDaE CrMACE  ROMANIA
l Dfejina               GRADE ,Ko,in  *DE                      2001
J 3 Fd Laz~~~~~~~~~nica  -\J  'w 
rB SNIA AND             Vak4 i'1  ASa  eo     a  YOPtoa 
HERZEGOVINA                                 I noia  , ; ag +*B,a[f._uicatl 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vanic 3 ekin ac 
EVX                                  Jagievin"  uprijePle) (5\_ 
<  dNavi PazX j W         >       Palm )~~~~P
, rijNlfw                      M2>                    %'-,--s~~~~~~Prjop j
w-4_ D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sinc 0 |l  Raa P' ku! pietz,K 
Ad;ai                                 trovica'             '  '
X  ww  bw l Mw D-  p ure d                      0 lo  > 
seac      an i{n,   ',SK,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA        I                             i.   Fe Rep,' \I 
DECEMBER 2001



