Report No. PID11043
Project Name             Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia / ...
Montenegro)-Private and Financial Sector
Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Financial and Enterprise Sectors
Project ID               YFPE74486
Borrower                 Government of Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (FRY)
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Finance of the Republic of
Serbia
Belgrade, Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia
Ministry of Economy and Privatization
of the Republic of Serbia (contact:
Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Tel. 381-11-3671-
599)381 11 3671-599
Bank Rehabilitation Agency of the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(contact: Mr. Radovan Jelasic, Tel:
381-11- 624-245)
Environment Category     B
Date This PID Prepared   December 5, 2001
Date Initial PID
Prepared                 December 5, 2001
Projected Appraisal
Date                     March 2002
Projected Board Date     May 2002
1.  Country and Sector Background
FRY and Serbia began the renewed transition to democracy and a
market economy under very difficult economic and social
conditions. These conditions result from fifty years of
centrally-planned economic mismanagement and a decade of regional
conflicts and international isolation that followed the break-up
of SFRY in 1991. To promote private sector-led growth, the newly
elected federal and republican governments have initiated a wide
range of structural and institutional reforms in enterprise and
financial sector.
2. Project Objectives
The proposed PFSAC will support Serbia's financial and
enterprise sector reforms seeking to significantly accelerate
private sector growth through: (i) strengthening the financial
system by liquidating troubled banks and improving the
environment under which banks operate; (ii) privatizing and



restructuring socially owned enterprises that crowd out private
sector growth, hamper banking sector recovery, and incur
significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs; and (iii) improving
the business enabling environment. The main objective will be
to foster private sector growth and job creation, supported by a
healthier and more developed financial system.
3.   Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for FRY identifies the
stimulation of near-term growth as one of key challenges facing
the FRY and Serbian authorities on a path to a market economy.
World Bank experience in other transition economies has shown
that an integrated approach to enterprise and financial sector
reforms is needed in order achieve the healthy, private sector-
led growth.   Under the proposed operation, financial sector
reforms are expected to boost financial intermediation, and
encourage domestic savings, generating the much needed working
capital and investment finance needed for the real sector to
expand. At the same time, the privatization/liquidation of
state-owned enterprises and new entry of firms supported by the
business-enabling environment, are expected to lay the basis for
sustainable growth. At the interface between private and
financial sector reforms, the asset resolution/debt workout
scheme will deal with interrelated issues of the banking system
weakness and loss-making enterprises. The initial technical
assistance for the project will be provided by the two recently
approved Private and Financial Sector TA Grants (US$ 6.0 million
each), as well as by the US$ 814,000 Japanese Trust Fund.
4. Description of Proposed Project
The proposed PFSAC will be a one-tranche operation of
approximately US$70 million. The proposed credit will be
conditioned on specific reform efforts in the following five
areas: (i) Banking Sector Reform; (ii) Reform of Socially Owned
Enterprises (SOEs); (iii) Bank Assets and Enterprise Workouts;
(iv) Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework; and
(v) Business Environment Reform.
i.      Banking Sector Reform component will support the
implementation of a comprehensive bank resolution strategy.
More specifically, the component would support the
liquidation and divestiture of all insolvent banks that are
not selected for restructuring. The project would also
support additional efforts to enhance the regulatory
framework of bank resolution, including further
strengthening of Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA).
ii.     Reform of Socially Owned Enterprises component will support
ongoing reforms aimed at the rapid divestiture of large and
medium-sized SOEs through internationally accepted methods,
using best practices that ensure transparency,
competitiveness, and appropriate sales techniques for the
companies being privatized. Privatization will be
conducted by Serbian Privatization Agency (PA) primarily by
means of case-by-case sell-offs to strategic investors
(more attractive/larger companies) and public auctions
- 2-



(less attractive/smaller companies). In addition, the
project would support the development of an improved legal
and institutional framework to allow the efficient
liquidation of those enterprises which cannot be sold
through the normal privatization procedures.
iii.    Bank Assets and Enterprise Workouts component will support
the development of an improved legal framework to resolve
the potential conflict between the interest of the BRA in
maximizing the value of the loan portfolio of the banks
under its administration, or for which it is the bankruptcy
liquidator, and the interest of the PA in taking all
possible steps to maximize the number of viable enterprises
it can privatize.
iv.     Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework
component will support reinforcing an adequate legal and
institutional framework for the effectively functioning
financial sector, focusing on: (i) the completion of the
NBY's self assessment of compliance with the Core
Principles for Effective Supervision; (ii) the ongoing
upgrading of the legal framework and prudential
requirements; (iii) strengthening licensing requirements,
including provisions for "fit and proper" and effective
home country supervision for foreign banks; and (iv)
initiating a supervisory training program which will be an
integral part of the continuing supervisory strengthening
program now underway.
v.      Business Environment Reform component will support the
Government's reform efforts to improve the business
environment by (i) deregulation of business entry and
operations; (ii) enhancing private business access to
finance; and (iii) facilitation of business-government
consultative mechanism and improvement of institutional
capacity. The goal is to encourage the entry of new private
firms, generally recognized in all transition countries as
the primary engine of growth and job creation.
5. Implementation
Due to the highly devolved nature of the Yugoslav federation
(most areas of economic policy are in the competence of the
republics) and the different starting points, needs and pace of
reforms in the two republics, the proposed PFSAC will focus
exclusively on the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Ministry of
Finance will serve as the main Government counterpart who will
ensure the overall project coordination among several other
agencies also involved in the reform program: National Bank of
Yugoslavia (NBY), Serbian Ministry of Economy and Privatization
(MOEP), Bank Rehabilitation Agency, and Privatization Agency.
6. Benefits and Risks
Implementation of continued structural reforms in the enterprise
and financial sectors under this operation will enhance Serbia's
- 3 -



prospects for growth, and will reinforce the sustainability of
its macroeconomic stabilization. The main benefit of the
proposed credit would be faster private sector growth and job
creation, supported by a healthier and more developed financial
system.
The main risk to proposed PFSAC is the impending global economic
downturn that could deter the potential private capital inflows
to Serbia. The wide participation by credible foreign investors
is crucial for the success of Serbia's efforts to reform its
enterprise and financial sectors. Additional risks could arise
from what is perceived by prospective investors as renewed
political instability in the already volatile Balkan region,
with the future of the Yugoslav federation being still uncertain
and the status of Kosovo undetermined. The project also faces
the risk of eventual weakening of political commitment to
liquidate large loss making enterprises and insolvent banks,
many of which are politically/socially sensitive because of
their importance to economy as a whole and potential social and
fiscal costs.   Finally, the ambiguous co-existence of Federal
and Republican legal systems, or the existence of the concept of
"social capital" in FRY could present an opportunity for legal
challenges to key reforms supported by PFSAC (e.g., enterprise
privatization).
7. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01 Annex E), the proposed project
is expected to be placed in Category "B". The environmental
analysis for this operation will be undertaken by mid-2002.
Contact Point:
InfoShop World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
E-Mail: pic@worldbank.org
Project Team Leaders
Gerardo Corrochano
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
20433
Telephone No.: 202-473-3568
Fax No.: 202-522-3687
Itzhak Goldberg
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
-4-



Washington, DC
Telephone No.:(202) 473-6289
Fax No.: (202) 522-0073
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 22, 2002.
- 5 -



