Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3643 YF
Development Credit Agreement
Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 4, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3643 YF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 4, 2002, between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower and the Republic of 
Serbia a letter dated April 22, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the private and financial sector of the Borrower and 
the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s and the 
Republic of Serbia’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia have carried out the measures and taken 
the actions described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
and
(C)
on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia by making 
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to this 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
Page  3
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AP” means the Republic of Serbia Agency for Privatization, or any successor 
thereto;
(b)
“BRA” means the Bank Rehabilitation Agency of the Borrower, or any successor 
thereto;
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(d)
“Dinar” means the currency of the Borrower; and
(e)
“NBY” means the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the Borrower’s central bank, or 
any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights   (SDR 
68,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
Page  4
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing October 15, 2012, and 
ending April 15, 2022. Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Page  5
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available to the Republic of Serbia in Dinar the 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, such terms to include the provisions set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05 and 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. For purposes of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions, the following 
event is specified as a condition of effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, that following the 
approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of the arrangements referred to in Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower has enacted a law related to the above arrangements, and 
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  6
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Deputy Prime Minister of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Federal Ministry of Finance of the 
    Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Bulevar Mihajla Pupina 2
Belgrade 11000
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Facsimile:
(381 11) 311-2979
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Belgrade, 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ Miroljub Labus
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory C. O’Sullivan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
Page  8
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party); 
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) 
of the Preamble to this Agreement
1. 
The NBY has withdrawn the licenses of Beobanka, A.D., Beogradska Banka, A.D., 
Investbank, A.D., and Jugobanka Beograd, A.D., thereby initiating their liquidation.
2.
The NBY has begun the process of liquidating or rehabilitating the twenty four small and 
medium size Republic of Serbia banks under the control of the BRA and the Commercial Court; 
and the NBY has established a deadline for four small solvent Republic of Serbia banks that are 
pending compliance with the existing minimum capital requirements.
3.
The AP has entered into contracts, satisfactory to the Association, with financial advisers 
and investment banks, or other qualified agents (sales agents) with respect to the planned 
privatization and sale of twenty eight Republic of Serbia enterprises; and the sales agents have 
completed valuation and market assessment reports with respect to ten of these enterprises.
4.
The Government of the Borrower has submitted to the Parliament of the Borrower a bill 
to amend the “Law on Enterprises”, No. 2996/2997, and satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The AP and BRA have executed a memorandum of understanding, dated December 31, 
2001, establishing a framework and procedures for settling claims of privatized enterprises that 
have debts to one or more banks for which the BRA is the bankruptcy administrator, and 
satisfactory to the Association.
6.
The Government of the Borrower has submitted to the Parliament of the Borrower a bill 
to amend the 1999 “Law on Banks and Other Financial Institutions”, and satisfactory to the 
Association.
7.
The NBY has submitted to the Parliament of the Borrower a bill to approve a revised 
“Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia”, and satisfactory to the Association.
8.
The NBY has undertaken measures and actions to improve the existing supervisory 
banking framework in the Republic of Serbia, and satisfactory to the Association.
9.
The Borrower has enacted the 2002 “Law on Foreign Direct Investment”, and 
satisfactory to the Association.
10.
The Republic of Serbia has enacted the “Law on the Agency for the Development of 
Small and Medium Enterprises”, dated November 19, 2001, and satisfactory to the Association.
