                      Document of
                   The World Bank




                                                Report No: 27530

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (TF-26817 IDA-36430)

                        ON A

                        CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 68.1 MILLION
           (US$ 85.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                        TO THE

              SERBIA AND MONTE NEGRO
    (FORMERLY FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA)

                        FOR A

PRIVATE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT




                    December 19, 2003

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Dinar (SCD)
                                       1 SCD = US$ 0.0179
                                        US$ 1 = SCD 55,85

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRA    Bank Rehabilitation Agency             PFSAC          Private and Financial Sector
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                           Adjustment Credit
CEM    Country Economic Memorandum            PFSAC II       Second Private and Financial Sector
EAR    European Agency for Restructuring                     Adjustment Credit
ECA    Europe and Central Asia                PHRD           Policy and Human Resources
EC     European Commission                                   Development
ESW    Economic and Sector Work               PSD            Private Sector Development
EU     European Union                         QAG            Quality Assurance Group
FRY    Federal Republic of Yugoslavia         RoS            Republic of Serbia
FSD    Financial Sector Development           SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
HL     Highly Likely                          SAM            Serbia and Montenegro
ICR    Implementation Completion Report       SDP            Supervisory Development Plan
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction  SDR            Special Drawing Right
       and Development                        SME            Small and Medium Enterprise
IDA    International Development Association  SOE            Socially Owned Enterprises
IDI    Institutional Development Impact       SOSAC          Social Sector Adjustment Credit
MOEP   Ministry of Economy and Privatization  SRC            Supervisory Review Committee
MOFE   Ministry of Finance and Economy        TA             Technical Assistance
MOU    Memorandum of Understanding            TSS            Transitional Support Strategy
NBS    National Bank of Serbia                UK DFID        United Kingdom Department for
NBY    National Bank of Yugoslavia                           International Development
LDP    Letter of Development Policy           USAID          United Stated Agency for
PA     Privatization Agency                                  International Development
                                              SCD            Serbia and Montenegro Dinars




                              Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                            Country Director    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                              Sector Manager    Gerardo Corrochano
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Itzhak Goldberg

                               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
                   Private & Financial Sector Structural Adjustment Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P074486                                                  Project Name: Private & Financial Sector Structural
                                                                     Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Itzhak Goldberg                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 19, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Private & Financial Sector Structural Adjustment L/C/TF Number: TF-26817; IDA-36430
                            Credit
   Country/Department: SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Banking (50%); Other industry (50%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/20/2001                                     Effective: 05/23/2002                05/23/2002
     Appraisal: 03/20/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 05/23/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA/REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:        Gerardo Corrochano                             Khaled Sherif
Team Leader at ICR:             Itzhak Goldberg                                Itzhak Goldberg
ICR Primary Author:             Alexander Pankov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Private and Financial Sector Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) supported the governments of the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY--now known as Serbia and Montenegro ) and its largest constituent
                                                                                             1


republic, the Republic of Serbia (RoS) , in implementing the initial major structural reform steps for the
                                              2


Serbian economy seeking to significantly accelerate private sector-led growth through: (i) strengthening the
financial system by liquidating troubled banks and improving the environment under which banks operate;
(ii) privatizing and restructuring socially owned enterprises that crowd out private sector growth, hamper
banking sector recovery, and incur significant fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs; and (iii) improving the
investment climate and business enabling environment. While the PFSAC was envisioned as a single
tranche operation, the reforms were not viewed in isolation. Rather, the operation was seen as the first part
of a program of reforms designed to see the core of the economy make the transition process, a program
which would in turn be supported by a follow up Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(PFSAC II) operation as well as supporting technical assistance grants and credits.

PFSAC was part of a sequence of complementary adjustment operations supported by the Bank. It was
preceded by the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) and followed by the Social Sector Adjustment
Credit (SOSAC). These operations addressed other sectoral problems in a coordinated fashion and helped
to ensure that the PFSAC-led reforms did not lead to the enterprise and financial sectors getting ahead of
the remainder of a comprehensive and integrated reform program.


3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the PFSAC were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

PFSAC focused on specific reform efforts in the following five areas: (i) banking sector reform; (ii) reform
of socially-owned enterprises (SOEs); (iii) bank assets and enterprise workouts; (iv) financial sector
regulatory and supervisory framework; and (v) business environment reform.

    l Banking Sector Reform component supported reforms aimed at: (i) the closure and liquidation of
          insolvent banks, including the four largest banks in the system; and (ii) improving the regulatory
          framework for bank resolution.

---------------------------------------
1
 The Constitutional Charter of Serbia and Montenegro was enacted by the Parliament of Serbia, the Parliament of Montenegro
and the Parliament of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and became effective February 4, 2003. As of that date, the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia changed its name to "Serbia and Montenegro."
2
  The Borrower of legal record is the FRY. However, the counterpart funds were on-lent to the Republic of Serbia. Banking
sector reforms supported by PFSAC were mostly undertaken by the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) and the Bank
Rehabilitation Agency (BRA), which used funds provided by the RoS. The RoS was responsible for formulating and
implementing the majority of measures in the enterprise sector program. Therefore, for purposes of this report, the term
"Government" would refer to the Government of RoS, unless otherwise specified.




                                                            - 2 -

   l Enterprise Sector Reform component supported the rapid divestiture of large and medium-sized
        SOEs through internationally accepted tender and auction procedures, using best practices that
        ensure transparency, competitiveness, and appropriate sales techniques for the companies being
        privatized.
   l Bank Assets and Enterprise Workouts component supported the development of an improved
        legal and institutional framework to resolve the non-performing loans in the portfolios of banks
        under liquidation, while at the same time facilitating the privatization process of the indebted
        enterprises.
   l Financial Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework component supported the upgrading
        of the legal framework, including amendments to the banking law, the Law on NBY, and revised
        prudential regulations; (ii) NBY's ongoing efforts to improve the existing supervisory work,
        including the completion of the self assessment of compliance with the Core Principles for
        Effective Supervision, introduction of a CAMEL rating system, and procedures for NBY's
        problem bank unit; and (iii) the preparation of a supervisory development plan.
   l Business Environment Reform component supported reform efforts aimed at: (i) deregulation of
        business entry and operations; (ii) enhancing private business access to finance; and (iii)
        improvement of institutional capacity for Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) support and
        business-government dialogue.

These components reflected the highest priority sectoral issues agreed between the RoS authorities and the
Bank. These priorities were identified in both "Breaking with the Past: the Path to Stability and Growth"
(May 2001; the first Country Economic Memorandum for the FRY after its readmission to active member
status in the Bank), and the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Yugoslavia (July 2001) which defined
the country assistance strategy program support to be extended by the International Development Agency
(IDA). The TSS sought, among other objectives, to address the immediate challenges of Serbia's
long-delayed structural reform agenda in banks and enterprises. These included the resolution of large
insolvent state banks, start of a multi-track privatization program, and early efforts to improve the
regulatory framework for banking and enterprise sectors. As noted above, the components were not
designed to be "stand alone" reforms. While each was important, both the authorities and the Bank saw
them as building blocks in a program of reform which was envisioned to take a number of years and be
supported by multiple Bank operations, each operation designed to support further progress towards the
goal of building a market economy.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components of the PFSAC were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The PFSAC was fully consistent with the Bank's strategy as defined in the TSS, and reflected the
government's key priorities. The Bank's dialog with the government concerning the formulation of the
PFSAC reflected the RoS government's and key federal institutions' commitment to reforms and assisted
the government and these institutions in defining and implementing actions designed to provide the
foundations for sectoral reform programs.

The risks of the PFSAC were carefully evaluated. External risks were identified primarily in the form of a
possible deterioration in the global economy and capital markets which could reduce private investment
flows into Serbia, undermining the privatization program for both SOE's and banks. These external risks



                                                    - 3 -

were potentially reinforced by internal factors: (a) the general uncertainty surrounding FRY's constitutional
structure, including the potential for regional instability caused by the uncertain status of Kosovo; and, (b)
the potential for political instability in the RoS caused by the scheduled presidential elections, the inherent
tensions in a government composed of a large number of coalition partners, and social unrest caused by the
restructuring of the enterprise sector, where rapid increases in unemployment were expected. These risks
were addressed in the design of the PFSAC by up front conditionality, which also had the benefit of
encouraging early action on key sectoral issues by the authorities.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The PFSAC largely achieved its objective of laying the foundations for a private sector-led economic
growth through jumpstarting the reform process in banking and enterprise sectors. The operation
successfully addressed the immediate challenges of Serbia's long-delayed structural reform agenda in banks
and enterprises. These included the resolution of large insolvent banks, rapid start of a multi-track
privatization program, and early efforts to improve the regulatory framework for banking and enterprise
sectors. Very importantly, PFSAC was accompanied by an extensive Technical Assistance (TA) program
supported by the Bank and other donors, which laid the foundations for successful implementation of
complex sectoral reform (see Section 4.5). As described in more detail in Section 6.2, the successful
implementation of policy objectives presented in PFSAC provided an adequate platform for the design of
PFSAC II operation, which has been rated as "highly satisfactory" at quality of entry assessment by the
Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Banking Sector Reform

Progress made in the banking sector with support from the PFSAC was particularly dramatic, resulting in
the closure of 23 banks. This process culminated with the bold decision by the authorities--almost
unprecedented in the region--to put the four largest insolvent banks into bankruptcy. These banks
represented 61 percent of the total assets of the banking system. With substantial Bank and donor support
targeted on institutional strengthening, the Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) successfully executed the
closure and commencement of bankruptcy proceedings for these banks in January 2002. The
implementation of remedial plans for the five banks that were in rehabilitation at the end of 2001 continued
during 2002 and, as a result, three of these banks were merged to form a larger bank - Niska Banka - in
late 2002, which was recapitalized by the BRA and now meets prudential requirements, has positive
income and operating cash flows, and is expected to be a candidate for privatization in 2003/4. Both of the
remaining two banks in rehabilitation are considered to be non-viable by the BRA and are pending a
National Bank of Serbia (NBS) and government decision that is like to result in their liquidation or gradual
closing.

These bold steps restored depositor confidence and allowed an opportunity for banks to take advantage of
the Euro conversion process to build deposits. The restoration of confidence in the banking sector - perhaps
the most fundamental measure of a system's health - has been dramatic, and is evidenced by the astonishing
growth in foreign exchange deposits in banks, which rose from virtually negligible levels in 2000, to Euro
538 million by mid-2001, and to nearly Euro 1 billion at end-2002.




                                                      - 4 -

B. Enterprise Sector Reform

The most important achievement in the reform of the enterprise sector was the design and introduction of a
new privatization methodology, incorporating the lessons from the experience of other transition economies
throughout the 1990s. The Privatization Law adopted in June 2001, widely hailed as incorporating the best
practice in the region, has several important characteristics: (i) the government committed to offer a
controlling stake of 70% in all enterprises; (ii) a transparent competitive tender or auction would be used;
and, (iii) multi-track approach allowed for a market test by offering socially-owned enterprises for sale
through tender or auction first, and then putting unsaleable companies into restructuring, followed by
auction, tender or bankruptcy. The experience to date justifies the approach taken as the number of
companies sold to strategic investors is lower than expected and many require either restructuring or
bankruptcy. The legacy of social ownership added to the obstacles faced by the privatization program. In
particular, the effects of the power acquired by trade unions, management and employees under the former
system on expectations for influence on the privatization process and these groups' desires for investor
commitments for post-privatization labor retention had to be overcome.

Tender privatization. Under the new Privatization Law, tenders are reserved for the larger and more
commercially attractive companies. The objective supported under PFSAC was to start the process of
privatization for the first 28 companies that were deemed sufficiently attractive to sell in this manner. The
techniques for this tender privatization process had been agreed with the government and reflected best
practices. For example, control blocks of shares were to be sold using open, competitive international
tenders to strategic buyers. The privatizations themselves were to be undertaken by international investment
banks, hired through open tenders under the Bank's procurement rules. Because of the smaller size of many
of the 28 companies, it was agreed with the government to organize the companies into six groups (pools)
and tender each group to an investment bank. As the pools were contracted in a serial manner, some pools
were expected to have advanced to the market assessment stage by Board so the conditionality was set that
all 28 companies (six pools) would be contracted to investment banks and that at least ten market
assessment reports, the first stage of the investment banks' work, would be completed by Board. These
initial steps taken under PFSAC were the beginning of a tender privatization program that has already
resulted in about 20 sales, and is ongoing, supported by PFSAC II. At the same time, the government has
also conducted a number of self-financed privatizations outside the Bank's program and successfully sold a
number of large socially and state owned firms (tobacco, major national retail gasoline chain, cement),
using the best practice procedures (open, competitive tenders, sales to strategic buyers, use of reputable
investment banks) agreed to and established in the Bank-financed tender program.

Auction privatization. The auction program has been designed to address the structural difficulty which
has been faced in many transition economies of privatizing in a relatively short period of time a large
number of companies, while the domestic purchasing power is very limited. Auctions were reserved for the
smaller companies, usually attractive to local buyers, that did not merit the cost and effort of a tender.
While the tender privatization process had been relatively easy to agree to and set up, given experience in
other Europe and Central Asia (ECA) countries, the auction program, which was based on cash sales and
not on vouchers, so commonly used in other transition countries, was more difficult as a number of new
approaches and techniques had to be worked out in the Serbian context. Therefore, modest targets were set
for this credit, with nine pilot companies to be sold in auction and another eight prepared for sale. This was
done before Board. The auction experience under this credit led to a revision of the legislation pertaining to
auctions, further improvements in methodology and the launching of the current auction program, which
has been highly successful with over 1,000 companies expected to be sold by the end of 2003.




                                                      - 5 -

Privatization Through Restructuring. This method was reserved for those enterprises that could not be
privatized in their current state due to losses, debts or unattractive structure. The government's
restructuring program started in early 2002 with over 40 companies having been identified as candidates
for restructuring. In parallel with the preparation of PFSAC, the Bank worked with counterparts on the
preparation of a new TA credit to finance investment banks and other advisors to help the government
undertake the complex restructuring. This credit was subsequently granted and a Bank-financed
privatization through restructuring program is currently underway, supported through PFSAC II .

Social Costs of Privatization. Supported by complementary components of the PFSAC, the SAC, and
SOSAC, the government responded in March 2002 with a new program designed to meet the social and
fiscal challenges expected to result from the large scale lay offs which enterprise restructuring and
privatization was expected to produce. This program provides dismissed SOE employees with a menu of
options (e.g. cash payments, retraining) and has, despite a substantial rise in unemployment, helped contain
social unrest arising from enterprise restructuring at manageable levels.

C. Bank Assets and Enterprise Workouts

With the Bank's support under PFSAC, the authorities made important first steps towards resolving the
excessive debt burden present in the economy, which affects both: (i) bank restructuring, where prospective
buyers-- traditionally strategic investors--normally would prefer banks to be cleansed of their
non-performing loan portfolios before the sale; and, (ii) enterprise privatization because the ability of the
Privatization Agency to restructure and/or privatize larger enterprises is heavily affected by its ability to
secure the agreement of creditors of the enterprises. The government realized that if the problem of
excessive indebtedness of firms in the privatization program is not dealt with, the privatization and
restructuring objectives in both bank and enterprise sectors would not be achieved and economic growth
would be negatively affected. Important progress in developing mechanisms to facilitate creditor
compromise has been made:

   l The Privatization Law contained provisions for an out of court mechanism to restructure the
         indebtedness of qualifying enterprises as an integral part of their privatization. If the enterprise is
         restructured, under the restructuring provisions of the Privatization Law it is intended that a
         majority of the creditors voting on a plan can bind the dissenting minority.
   l In 2001, the government issued a series of decrees which allowed the Ministry of Finance and
         Economy (MOFE) to write off most historical tax debts of enterprises at the time of their
         privatization.
   l In December 2002, the Privatization Agency and the BRA (in its capacity as bankruptcy trustee of
         several large banks) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) which addresses the
         manner in which the BRA will fulfill its obligations to the courts and the creditors of the bankrupt
         banks in a manner that does not impede the privatization of socially owned enterprises. Expressed
         very simply, the MOU stipulates that the BRA will allow an enterprise to be sold free and clear of
         amounts owing to the bankrupt banks, in exchange for a negotiated percentage of the proceeds
         from the sale.

D. Banking Sector Regulatory and Supervisory Framework

The support provided under the PFSAC helped to guide the authorities in preparing the initial legislative
changes and the first implementation steps in the process of strengthening bank supervision and regulation.
Since then, the Supervisory Development Plan (SDP) has been designed by management and adopted as an
official statement for the future direction of supervision. The SDP is now under implementation (supported


                                                      - 6 -

by PFSAC II), with technical assistance provided by USAID. This document maps out the building
process, particularly the organizational and process changes needed to establish and implement a new
supervisory approach based both on risk analysis and compliance verification. Several key benchmarks
have already been achieved: a Supervisory Review Committee (SRC) was established to oversee and
monitor both supervisory activities and progress against the SDP; a mission statement which formally
presents supervisory objectives and direction was approved and published; initial steps have been taken to
prepare supervisory strategies for individual banks; and the regulator's communication with the banking
community has been improved. Once fully in place, these steps will yield a new, risk based, supervisory
approach and methodology. In concert with the steps supported by the PFSAC to improve bank
supervision, a number of enhanced and new prudential regulations have been approved by the NBS,
covering the areas of capital adequacy, investment limitations, liquidity, internal controls, internal audit
functions, credit classification, and credit policy.

E. Business Environment Reform

Supported by the PFSAC, the RoS and FRY authorities took initial but very critical steps toward business
enabling environment reform, including liberalization and deregulation of foreign trade and investment,
simplification of the tax regime, and modernization of the labor legislation. The PFSAC supported progress
in the preparation of legislative and regulatory amendments which would facilitate business formation and
registration, remove onerous cash handling restrictions, and provide an enhanced framework for secured
lending (thus providing an essential foundation for improvements in the prudent financing of enterprises by
banks). In fact, registration of a Limited Liability Company in Serbia has gone down from 59 days to 45
days following the changes introduced by PFSAC. In the area of secured financing and leasing, PFSAC set
the foundation for the second adjustment operation, supporting the establishment of a regulatory framework
conducive for leasing and secured financing operations. Finally, PFSAC helped in strengthening the
institutional framework for the SME sector by helping the establishing the SME agency and the network of
regional agencies that are providing the education, consulting and information programs for entrepreneurs
and that helped launching and implementing SME development strategy in year 2003.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

While the PFSAC was a single tranche operation at an early stage of the reform process, the successful
implementation of major components of the reform program had a prerequisite that relevant Borrower's
institutions make very significant strides in their development. Accordingly, the Bank deployed substantial
resources through a technical assistance grant, and coordinated the deployment of further substantial
resources by other bilateral and multilateral donors, in support of the development of three key institutions:
the BRA, the NBY (now NBS) and the Privatization Agency (PA).

The Bank's successful coordination of donor support with its own support for these three institutions had a
major impact in both maximizing the impact of resources by improving efficiency and targeting of
assistance and, in improving the operational efficiency of the recipient institutions by ensuring that



                                                      - 7 -

appropriate support could be provided at the times it was required. Thus, assisted by USAID, the NBY
was able to successfully carry out diagnostic examinations of all banks in the system in the first half of
2001 and, subsequently, close 23 banks; assisted by UK DFID, US Treasury, and the Bank, the BRA was
able to build the capacity to both handle complex bank failures--including the simultaneous start of
liqidation procedures of the four largest banks in Serbia--and to carry out large scale (in terms of the
numbers of accounts and depositors) deposit insurance payout operations; and, assisted by the Bank, EAR,
USAID, and development agencies of the Netherlands and Sweden, the PA was able to successfully launch
the tender program and the privatization through restructuring program for large SOE. The establishment
and operation of the PA is particularly heartening as it has brought, with the support of the Bank, a best
practices approach to its privatization and restructuring--using reputable investment banks and open,
transparent competitive tenders for strategic buyers--that has not only allowed the Bank financed
privatization and restructuring program to be carried out to a high standard but, as well, has enabled the
government to undertake its own financed significant privatization program using the acquired best
practices.

Taking these aspects together, the PFSAC has had a major impact in increasing the country's ability to
mobilize its human and financial resources in support of the reform process by developing two key
institutions (the BRA and PA) virtually from scratch and significantly improving the capacity of a third
(the NBY). Thus an overall IDI rating of high is appropriate.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no major factors outside the control of government, such as changes in world markets or prices,
natural disasters, etc., which affected implementation of this project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Government commitment to the overall program was strong. The government viewed PFSAC as a essential
instrument in its drive towards the transformation of Serbia into a full-fledged market economy and to its
integration into the European Union. Recognizing difficulties and risks involved, the authorities are
determined to help Serbia's enterprise and financial sectors adjust to the new market-economy environment
by completing the ownership transformation of inefficient and insolvent SOEs, establishing a more
competitive and service oriented banking system that can mobilize a rising level of financial resources and
provide for the credit needs of a growing economy, and developing a modern legislative and institutional
framework for operations of enterprises and banks. The striking difference in profitability (and by
implication, productivity) between private and non-private sectors provides a key rationale for the proposed
reform strategy.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The NBY had the primary responsibility for conducting financial sector reforms supported by the PFSAC,
and the Ministry of Economy and Privatization (MOEP) was the Bank's main counterpart on the enterprise
sector reform agenda. On a technical level, the BRA and PA were responsible for implementing the reforms
in, respectively, the banking and enterprise sector. The MOFE, as the borrowing agency, coordinated the
overall reform effort.




                                                     - 8 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The credit was for SDR 68.1 million and was financed by an IDA credit of US$85 million. There were no
cost changes or changes in financing in the course of project implementation, and disbursements were
handled promptly without delay.        3




As noted above, the implementing agencies benefited from large amounts of technical assistance provided,
mostly on a grant basis, by the Bank and other donors. In particular, complementary activities to PFSAC
included: (i) two IDA Technical Assistance Grants for Private and Financial Sector Development of US$6
million each (PSD and FSD TA Grants), approved in mid-2001; (ii) two co-financing grants to the
Privatization Agency from the governments of the Netherlands and Sweden, totaling nearly $3.5 million;
and, (iii) the US$0.8 million Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) Trust Fund Grant from
the Government of Japan.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The reforms have substantial support and the government is committed to them. While certain sectoral
reforms could in theory be undone (through nationalization of privatized enterprises, for example) by a
future government certain could not (such as the closure of banks). The new owners of enterprises,
strategic investors or the new owners/managers will not allow nationalization of their formerly socially
owned enterprises. Social ownership has been discredited and is being removed, as form of ownership, from
the new Company Law. It is in any case more probable that a future government would not find it popular
to deal with the international and domestic impacts and costs of wholesale re-nationalization of the
economy.

To summarize, the reforms implemented under PFSAC are largely irreversible and have progressed even
further under the ongoing PFSAC II. Thus an overall rating of Highly Likely (HL) for sustainability is
appropriate.

____________________
3
 The deposit account opened to receive the PFSAC funds was audited by an independent private auditor. This audit revealed
two technical breaches of the credit agreement. First, the Government of FRY was required to open a separate Deposit Account
in the name of the Federal Ministry of Finance at the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) to receive the Euro credit proceeds,
and then to make available to the Republic of Serbia in Dinar the equivalent of the credit proceeds. Instead, the credit proceeds
were paid directly into an account at the NBY in the name of the Serbian Ministry of Finance and Economy, thereby giving
Serbia access to the foreign currency credit proceeds, rather than the Dinar equivalent foreseen under the DCA. Second, the
auditor noted that Euro 6 million of PFSAC funds were used to liquidate bonds held by former depositors of Dafiment Bank, a
failed bank. While the issuance and subsequent liquidation of the bonds directly supported the objectives of the PFSAC and
was consistent with budget allocations approved by parliament, this was in technical breach of the DCA "negative list"
prohibition of the use of credit proceeds to fund local expenditures. Once identified, the Government assured the Bank that the
breaches were errors made in good faith, based on a lack of full understanding of the Bank's requirements, and written
assurances were provided that future adjustment disbursements would be correctly handled. Bank financial management staff
reviewed disbursements made under subsequent adjustment operations (including SOSAC and PFSAC II) and confirmed that
the Borrower fully complied with the Bank's fiduciary requirements. As a result of the technical breaches, the project team also
obtained from the Bank's managing director an explicit exemption from the application of remedies.




                                                               - 9 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The reforms outlined above are now part of the regular operation of government. In the context of the
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) for PFSAC, the RoS authorities and the Bank agreed upon an
envisioned framework of medium-term reforms that constituted the basis of a follow up PFSAC II
(approved by the Board of Directors in June 2003; currently under implementation). PFSAC II thus builds
on the impressive progress made under PFSAC, by supporting the continuation of a wide-ranging
privatization and restructuring program for majority state- and socially-owned enterprises and banks.

Furthermore, the new credit supports the government's longer-term reform agenda aimed at creation of a
modern regulatory and institutional framework for sustainable private and financial sector development.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Concerning quality at entry, the PFSAC was fully consistent with and a core component of the TSS which
governed Bank operations. Thus, it clearly reflected Bank priorities and was appropriate as of time the
project was prepared. The PFSAC was also consistent with country priorities as appropriately identified by
the Bank. Establishing credible bank supervision and regulation and clearing away insolvent banks were
critical first steps in allowing the banking sector to re-establish public confidence. At the same time,
quickly establishing an enterprise privatization program was a critical measure given that the only feasible
way of restarting the large socially-owned enterprise sector was to begin attracting new private investment
to enterprises starved all types of finance. These aspects were all presented clearly in the Development
Objectives statement for the PFSAC. Since it was imperative to move quickly with the PFSAC in order to
help the newly installed government start its reform program, it was not possible to base the PFSAC on
extensive Economic and Sector Work (ESW). However, the PFSAC was well grounded in the TSS, and
built on the major World Bank/European Commission economic report "Federal Republic of Yugoslavia -
Breaking with the Past" which contained sectoral analyses and recommendations. In the privatization area,
where new approach was needed, the Bank sponsored in January 2001 a seminar with former privatization
officials from Hungary, Estonia, Poland and Slovenia to brainstorm the lessons of experience with the new
Serbian ministers. Government ownership was substantial and the authorities used PFSAC preparation to
help focus the sectoral reform agenda, and was fully involved in the details of preparing the PFSAC which
was, in turn, the core of the government's sectoral reform program. Institutional analysis underlying the
program was satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

As a one-tranche operation which disbursed shortly following the Board approval in May 2002, the
PFSAC did not entail direct supervision which would be associated with a multi-tranche operation, where
additional financial support would be directly linked to performance on follow-up measures. Nevertheless,
in almost all areas covered by the PFSAC, the primary vehicle for encouraging follow-up measures was
preparation activities for the proposed PFSAC II, the preparation of which started immediately after the
approval of PFSAC, as well as the supervision of several related TA projects. To this end, multiple Bank
missions have conducted regular review of progress in achieving medium-term outcome benchmarks
described in the LDP. As noted elsewhere in this report, these benchmarks lie at the core of current PFSAC



                                                    - 10 -

II program, which has been rated as "highly satisfactory" at quality of entry assessment by QAG.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of the very satisfactory ratings for quality at entry, lending, and supervision, the overall Bank
performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance in project preparation was highly satisfactory. Government priorities were discussed
in the context of the TSS leading up to the PFSAC and during project preparation, and the core of the
government's program was taken as key components of the operation. The PFSAC in turn focused its
efforts on important first-generation reforms which were consistent with the government's institutional and
administrative capacity. The key counterparts from MOFE, MOEP, NBY, BRA, and PA were closely
involved in the identification and preparation of various components of the PFSAC. In sum, the PFSAC
correlates in its entirety to key government priorities and thus it has benefited from an extraordinary level
of ownership by the authorities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government commitment to the overall program was strong. In some cases, the measures implemented
went beyond the frontier outlined by PFSAC conditionality (e.g., on the bank restructuring reform).
Follow-up measures (mainly supported by PFSAC II) were sustained after credit had been disbursed,
although in significant areas such as bank restructuring and privatization and SOE privatization the
timeline has been slower than originally envisaged, mainly due to less stable political environment in 2003.
In general, concerning both implementation and compliance, government performance merits a rating of
Satisfactory.

As noted in footnote 3, during the project audit of the Special Account, it was found that there was a
technical breach in the manner the credit proceeds were handled by the authorities. This was recognized by
the government after the event and measures were put into place to avoid a repetition of this. As a result of
the technical breaches, the project team also had to obtain from the Bank's managing director an explicit
exemption from the application of remedies (see Memo from Acting ECA VP to Managing Director of
November 12, 2003). The corrective measures that were put into place have been shown to be satisfactory
during supervision of the subsequent operations, including the PFSAC II and SOSAC.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Assiduous and timely implementation efforts by all agencies involved played a central role in the
substantial progress achieved by PFSAC. Based on the competence, commitment and sustainability of
ongoing activities, the performance of implementing agencies (above all, the PA and the BRA) is
considered satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

In view of the Borrower's satisfactory role in preparation, implementation, and compliance, the overall
Borrower performance merits a rating of Satisfactory.



                                                    - 11 -

8. Lessons Learned


   l Drawing the lessons from Bank's past experience is essential. The task team made a particular
       effort to study and apply the right lessons from past experience with bank restructuring and
       enterprise sector reform in transition economies, while at the same time adjusting it to the special
       conditions of the borrower with the help of the borrower's team. In particular, the recognition of
       the need for a clean and transparent privatization process and for tailoring the reform design to the
       specific features and economic culture of the country has produced a hard-hitting and
       results-focused yet realistic reform program. The program's sustainability derives as much from its
       technical soundness as from the accommodation of societal expectations, and its effectiveness is
       less likely to be marred by the perverse distributional and corruption impacts that tainted so many
       of the earlier interventions in some transition economies.

   l In particular, transition experience has shown that an integrated approach is needed to reform the
       enterprise and financial sectors. Under the PFSAC program, financial sector reforms aim to boost
       financial intermediation, and encourage domestic savings, generating the much needed working
       capital and investment finance needed for the real sector to expand. At the same time, the
       privatization of socially-owned enterprises and a more vibrant small and medium enterprise sector
       supported by the improved business-enabling environment, are expected to lay the basis for
       sustainable growth. Very importantly, the reforms need to be sequenced with the government's
       efforts, to provide adequate social protection for those displaced by restructuring and privatization.

   l Another key lesson is the need for careful sequencing of the more immediate structural reforms in
       enterprise and financial sector with the long-term efforts aimed at creating a modern regulatory
       and institutional framework for sustainable economic growth. As noted above, the authorities,
       with the Bank's support through PFSAC, have sought to take advantage of the favorable political
       window of opportunity by moving swiftly on the difficult yet pressing transition reforms, including
       privatization of socially-owned enterprises and liquidation of insolvent banks. In parallel, the
       PFSAC program made early progress on the regulatory and institutional reform agenda to create
       adequate enabling environment for enterprise and financial sectors.

   l Reform implementation is heavily dependent on effective champions. It is equally important that
       reform champions be well advised in the actions they do take. The willingness of the key actors at
       the NBY and MOFE to take dramatic action and close a large number of banks enabled key steps
       forward in the restructuring of the banking sector. Similarly, effective management of privatization
       program by the MOEP and PA facilitated the rapid progress in the reform of socially-owned
       sector. While there can be no guarantees of tenure of political appointments such as ministers, it is
       important to have as clear a picture as possible of any potential problems. Placing qualified and
       experienced advisers to assist reform champions, and providing assistance to educate and
       coordinate across a government may contribute significantly to the success of reform efforts.

   l The ability to provide extensive technical assistance on a timely basis has been enormously
       important in enabling the PFSAC to achieve its objectives. The early provision of substantial
       Bank grant funds (even before FRY formally became a member at the Bank) and the effective
       coordination by the Bank of support from other donors for the PFSAC-defined agenda were critical
       factors in quickly developing the institutional capacity to implement high impact reforms. With the
       help of Bank's extensive and timely TA effort, Serbia has quickly established a privatization
       agency and built capacity to hire and supervise international financial advisors. Similarly, the



                                                    - 12 -

         capacity of BRA has been greatly enhanced through the TA provided by the Bank and other
         donors.

    l Good ESW contributes importantly to successful adjustment operations. The CEM "Breaking
         with the Past" helped government to focus on key reforms, and enabled government and the Bank
         to work together on defining priority reforms to be included in the PFSAC.

    l Sufficient attention should be paid to ensuring that that borrower fully understands the fiduciary
         provisions. The Bank should provide adequate training and support to the borrower during project
         preparation and maintain an active dialogue on fiduciary requirements to make certain the credit
         proceeds are handled properly.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments from the Republic of Serbia Ministry of Finance and Economy

Background and Objectives
PFSAC addressed the challenges of Serbia's structural reform agenda in banks and enterprises including
the resolution of insolvent banks, launch of a multi-track privatization program and improvement of the
regulatory framework for banking and enterprise sector.

Implementation, Benefits
PFSAC provided a critical support to the government to jump-start its reform agenda. Improvement made
in the banking sector with support from the PFSAC was extraordinary. The authorities' (the National Bank
of Yugoslavia and Ministry of Finance and Economy) decision to put into bankruptcy the four largest
insolvent banks representing almost two thirds of the total assets of the banking system restored confidence
in the banking system and encouraged domestic savings that was needed for the real sector to expand. In
addition, under PFSAC, Serbia made important step towards resolving the excessive debt burden and
PFSAC was of tremendous help in preparing the initial legislative changes and the first implementation
steps in the process of strengthening bank supervision and regulation.

At the same time, the project component related to the privatization of socially owned enterprises and
business enabling reforms laid the basis for sustainable growth. The World Bank had a crucial role in
developing effective institutions (the PA and the BRA). This in turn resulted in successful implementation
of key goals of the Government reform agenda supported by PFSAC. The enterprise privatization
component enabled the use of the most appropriate sales techniques and divestiture of socially owned
enterprises through internationally accepted tender and auction procedures. This was done according to the
best practices that ensure transparency and competitiveness. The PFSAC contributed to improvements
related to the legislative changes that facilitated easier business entry, removed burdensome restrictions
related to cash handling and enhanced framework for attracting FDI. Finally, the Bank timely deployed
substantial resources through a technical assistance grant that helped the successful implementation of
major components of the reform program supported by the PFSAC.

Relationship with the Bank
During the preparation stage the Bank has closely worked with the Ministry of Finance and Economy. In
our view the Bank's performance in preparation, implementation and compliance was highly satisfactory.




                                                    - 13 -

Assessment of Outcome, Lessons Learnt
It was timely prepared operation that very well integrated reforms in the enterprise and financial sector.
The Bank remarkably applied the lessons from past experience with bank restructuring and enterprise
sector reform in other transition countries.

Comments from the Serbian Privatization Agency

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the Implementation Completion Report for the PFSAC. We
are pleased that you have determined that the performance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on
this lending operation has been assessed by you as Satisfactory in all categories.

The ICR makes it clear that the Government had to embark on a very intensive program of reform to make
up for the years of distortion produced by external sanctions and by the previous government. In order to
achieve this rapid transition, amongst other things the Government wanted to encourage the greatest
amount of both domestic and international investment. In order to do this, it was, and is, extremely
important that investors can see that their interests are not being neglected or forgotten in the urgency of the
moment.

We wish to draw your attention to aspects of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Privatization
Agency and the Bank Rehabilitation Agency referred to in the ICR. With regard to creditors of the
overindebted Socially Owned Enterprises which can not be privatized without a restructuring of their
obligations, one of the central features of the MOU was that it in essence subordinated debts owing by the
enterprises to the bankrupt banks to the claims of the other creditors of these enterprises.

Our second important comment on the ICR is that the MOU was only an interim step. The discussion on
page 10 of the draft ICR implies that this important mechanism was sufficient to allow the problems of
overindebtedness to be overcome. In fact, the MOU worked out the design features of an appropriate
mechanism governing the interconnection between the insolvent banks and the overindebted enterprises.
However, the Government recognized that this agreement needed further strengthening, and as a result
elevated the status of the MOU from a simple letter agreement between two government agencies to a
decree of the government. This latter action was supported under the PFSAC II.

Comments from the National Bank of Serbia

Background and Objectives
PFSAC supported the Government's program for improving corporate governance in the enterprise and
banking sector, mainly in the context of privatization and strengthening the legislative and regulatory
framework.




                                                      - 14 -

Implementation, Benefits
After a thorough preparation of the loan the implementation of the program went smoothly and the
operation has been all in all very successful. Overall performance and progress in implementing the
enterprise and financial sector privatization program have gone in accordance to a very high expectations at
the time of the loan appraisal and Board approval. PFSAC made a crucial contribution in the
implementation of financial and enterprise sector reforms. The operation addressed the immediate
challenges of Serbia's long delayed reform agenda and helped in strengthening the financial system. The
reforms implemented under PFSAC  liquidation of insolvent banks and establishment of credible bank
supervision and regulation were crucial in allowing the banking sector to re-establish public confidence.
Also, this operation through privatization and restructuring of socially-owned enterprises helped private
sector growth, and was first crucial step in removing real sector obstacles to banking sector recovery.

Relationship with the Bank
In the preparation phase the World Bank has closely cooperated with the NBY and provided a lot of useful
advice. After signing the loan supervision missions supported the Government in project implementation.
The cooperation has been outstanding throughout the operation time frame.

Assessment of Outcome, Lessons Learnt
The PFSAC operation is the very example that, in a complex environment, strong ownership of the
program, commitment to the objectives and decisive actions are key elements of successful implementation
of a major program. We would like to emphasize crucial role played by the extensive technical assistance
which laid the foundations for successful implementation of complex reforms.


(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A




                                                    - 15 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix             Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Not applicable as this is an adjustment
operation




Output Indicators:
                                                               1
              Indicator/Matrix             Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Not applicable as this is an adjustment
operation




1End of project




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation


Total Baseline Cost                                           0.00            0.00
                           Total Project Costs                0.00            0.00
                   Total Financing Required                   0.00            0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)




                                                 - 18 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               October, 2001            10     2 PTLs, 3 PSD Specialists, 4          S               S
                                               FSD Specialists, 1 Operation
                                               Analyst
               December, 2001            4     2 PTLs, 1 FSF Specialist, 1 PSD       S               S
                                               Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               February, 2002           10     2 PTLs, 3 PSD Specialists, 4          S               S
                                               FSD Specialists, 1 Operation
                                               Analyst


 Supervision
               NA


 ICR
               September 2003            4     1 PTL, 3 PSD / FSD                    S               S
                                               Specialists



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               73.9                            258.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    24.6                             86.2
  Supervision                                8.6                            31.0
  ICR                                      11.7                             41.0
  Total                                   118.8                            417.0




                                               - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Stategy, July 25, 2001 R2001-0049/2
Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy Update.

Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: Breaking with the Past Report No. 22267-YU dated July 15, 2001.

Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) - Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Project, Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 22321 dated 06/28/2001.

Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) - Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Project, Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 22508 dated 06/26/2001.

Yugoslavia, Federal Republic of - Privatization and Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises Technical Assistance
Project, Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 25064 dated 11/12/2002.




                                                  - 24 -

- 25 -

