Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3573 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Sector Development Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 31, 2001
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3573 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 2001, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Page  2
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated July 27, 2001, from the 
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to develop its 
education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the execution of the 
Program through a series of credits over a period of ten years, the proceeds of such credits to be 
utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the first phase of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Development Bank, the French 
Republic,
 
the Islamic Development Bank, the United Nations Development Programme and other 
donors (hereafter cumulatively referred to as Donors) loans or grants, as the case may be, in an 
aggregate amount equivalent to approximately seventy million Dollars ($70,000,000), to assist in 
the financing of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective loan or grant 
agreements (the Other Financing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and each 
of the Donors; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below, (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
Page  3
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AMEXTIPE” means 
Agence Mauritanienne d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêt 
Public pour l’Emploi, 
an entity established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means the recipient of a Grant (as hereinafter defined) for a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part E of the Project;
(c)
“CBS” means Community Based Support Grants;
(d)
“
Comité National de la Santé Scolaire,
 or “CCSS” means
 
the Borrower’s 
Committee on school health issues, to be established under the Project;
(e)
“
Comité de Coordination du Programme
”
or
“CCP” means the Borrower’s 
Program coordinating committee referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(f)
“
Comité de Gestion de Programme
”
or
“CGP” means the Borrower’s committee 
responsible for the operational coordination of education activities under the Program referred to 
in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(g)
“DAFM” means 
Direction des Affaires Administratives, Financières et du 
Matériel
,
the Directorate in charge of administrative and financial affairs and equipment at MEN 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(h)
“DESUP” means 
Direction de l’Enseignement Supérieur, 
the Directorate for 
Higher Education in MEN (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
“DH” means 
Direction de l’Hydraulique, 
the Directorate responsible for water in 
MHE (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
“DPC” means 
Direction de la Planification et de la Coopération, 
the Directorate 
Planning and Coordination in MEN (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
“DPEF” means 
Direction des Projets Education et Formation, 
the Department in 
MAED (as hereinafter defined) in charge of carrying out education and training projects;
(l)
“DREN” means 
Direction Régionale de l’Education Nationale, 
 the 
deconcentrated Regional Directorates for Education of MEN (as hereinafter defined) to be 
Page  4
established under the Project;
(m)
“ECD” means Early Childhood Development;
(n ) 
“ECDG” means Early Childhood Development Support Grants; 
(o)
“Education V Project” means the education project financed pursuant to the 
Development Credit Agreement entered  into by the Borrower  and the  Association on May 26, 
1995 as amended and restated on September 27, 1996;
(p)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the table in 
Part A. 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(q)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories;
(r)
“ENI” means 
Ecole Normale d’Instituteurs,
 the two Teachers’ Training Institutes 
of the Borrower;
(s)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower starting January 1 
and ending December 31 each calendar year;
(t)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a 
Beneficiary for the implementation of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the terms 
and conditions set forth in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(u)
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication campaigns;
(v)
“IHE” means Institutes of Higher Education, any one of the institutes of higher 
education established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(w)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be paid into the Project Account 
pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(x)
“INPFTP” means 
Institut National de Promotion de la Formation Technique et 
Professionnelle, 
the Borrower’s Technical and Professional Training Institute to be established 
under the Project;
(y)
“IT” means information technology and its practical use, such as video 
conferencing, audio-visual training, computerized sharing of training and research resources and 
linking with the African Virtual University;
(z)
“LSG” means Literacy and Mahadras Support Grants; 
(aa)
“Mahadras” means a private school offering nonformal Islamic education  in 
Arabic;
(bb)
“MAED” means 
Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
,
the 
Page  5
Borrower’s Ministry for  Economic Affairs and Development;
(cc)
“MEN” means 
Ministère de l’Education Nationale, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
National Education;
(dd)
“MHE” means 
Ministère de l’Hydraulique et de l’Energie, 
the Borrower’s 
Ministry for Water Supply and Energy;
(ee)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, established and operating under 
the laws of the Borrower
(ff)
Ouguiga” or “UM” means the currency of the Borrower;
(gg)
“Procedural Manual” means a manual for carrying out a Grant under  Part E of 
the Project, and “Procedural Manuals” means all such manuals;
(hh)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(ii)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual 
referred to in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and includes, inter alia, work-plans, 
monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for the purpose of carrying out 
the Project, as well as the agreement concluded between MHE, MEN and MAED pertaining to 
the carrying out of Part C. 2 (a) (ii) of the Project,  as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the approval of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to said Manual;
(jj)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(kk)
“PSEG” means Private Sector Education Grants; 
(ll)
“RRC” means Regional Resource Center, the Borrower’s regional ECD training 
and promotion centers;
(mm)
“RSG” means Research Support Grants; 
(nn)
“SEAEO” means 
Secrétariat d’Etat à l’Alphabétisation et à l’Enseignement 
Originel
, the Borrower’s Ministry for Adult Literacy Training;
(oo)
“SECF” means 
Secrétariat d’Etat à la Condition Féminine,
 the Borrower’s 
Ministry for women affairs;
(pp)
“SPEG” means School Performance and Enhancement Grants;
(qq)
“Special Account” means a Special Deposit Account to be opened pursuant to 
Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(rr)
“Subproject” means any one of the activities financed by a Grant; 
Page  6
(ss)
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means the agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary for the purpose of carrying out a Subproject;
(tt)
“Technical Study” means technical studies including, inter alia: (i) an 
environmental assessment including an evaluation of alternative options; (ii) architectural studies 
including un 
schéma directeur de l’espace; and 
(iii) engineering studies including physical 
access to the campus and to individual buildings, water, electricity supply and waste removal; 
(uu)
“TVTF” means Technical and Vocational Training Fund, a training financing 
institution to promote pre-service and in-service training, to be established under the Project;
(vv)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund;
(ww)
“University of Nouakchott” and “UoN”  means the public university in the 
capital city of the Borrower established pursuant to 
Ordonnance
 81-208, dated September 16, 
1981 and operating pursuant to Decree 81-231 dated October 20, 1981;
(xx)
“VTG” means Vocational Training Support Grants; and
(yy)
“WHO” means World Health Organization.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
39,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made 
under a Grant to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for a 
Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
Page  7
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and 
October 1, commencing April 1, 2012, and ending October 1, 2041.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 1, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  8
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end  shall carry out
 
the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, educational 
and environmental practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and furnish to 
the Association no later than one (1) month after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for safeguarding the 
objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
until the completion of the execution of the Project open and maintain an
 
account in UM in a commercial bank (the Project Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association;  
(b)
pay into the Project Account an initial amount of UM 50,000,000 (the Initial 
Deposit) to finance the Borrower's contribution to the expenditures required under  the Project;
(c)
thereafter during each following quarter, deposit into the Project Account the 
amount required to cover the Borrower's counterpart contribution for each such following 
Page  9
quarter, as determined by the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures required 
under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit or any Other 
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section including the records and accounts for the 
Special Account audited in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case no later 
than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such period as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
Page  10
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months following the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period 
covered by said report.
(d)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or 
a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant 
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project 
Page  11
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the respective Other Financing 
Agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
The Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the Initial 
Deposit;
(b)
The Borrower has appointed, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
The Borrower has appointed, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for DPEF, two staff responsible for procurement; 
(d)
The Borrower has adopted and furnished to the Association the Project 
Implementation Manual and a financial management manual, both in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
The Borrower has entered into an agreement with AMEXTIPE pertaining to the 
execution of Parts A.3 (b) and A.4 (a) and (b); B.3 (a) and (c); C.2 (iii) and D.1 (b) (i) and (c) (i) 
of the Project, in form and substance acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  12
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister in charge of economic affairs of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The  following  addresses are specified  for the  purposes of  Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economic Affairs and Development
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
B.P. 238
NOUAKCHOTT
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Telex:
Facsimile:
540 MTN
(222-5)-250-349
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA 
By /s/ Mohamed Ould Nany
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  13
By /s/ David Craig
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for:
(a)  Parts A.3 (b) and A.4 (a)
   5,900,000
92%
      and (b); B.3 (a) and (c); 
      C.2 (iii) and D.1 (b) (i) and 
      (c) (i) of the Project (
Amextipe)
(b) Other
     650,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and
85%of local 
expenditures
(2)
Goods
  8,450,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services
(a) for Part D 2 (g) of
    800,000
100% of foreign 
  the Project
expenditures and  
85% of local
expenditures
(b) Other
4,500,000
(4)
  Training                                   3,800,000
100%
(5)
Grants
100% of amounts       
disbursed
Page  14
(a) Part E.1 of the Project (
CBS
)  7,700,00
(b) Part E.4 of the Project (
VTG
)   500,000
(c) Part E.6 of the Project (
RSG
)   300,000
(d) Parts E.2, E.3, E.5 and E.7
           of  the Project 
 1,800,000
(6)
Operating costs 
   800,000
85%
(7)
Unallocated
3.900,000
TOTAL
          39,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising under 
the Project on account of contractual staff salaries and allowances, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, 
equipment, office rent and supplies, utilities, consumables, travel and accommodation, and 
audits, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of  payments:
(a)
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, with the exception of 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 800,000 in respect of 
Category 3 (a) of the table in paragraph 1 above on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after August 10, 2001;
(b)
for expenditures in respect of Category 5 (b) unless and until the Procedural 
Manual for VTGs has been submitted to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(c)
for expenditures in respect of Category 5 (c) unless and until the Procedural 
Manual for RSGs has been submitted to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(d)
for expenditures in respect of Category 5 (d) unless and until the Procedural 
Manual for (i) SPEG, (ii) PSEGs, (iii) ECDG and (iv) LSG has been submitted to the 
Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 
Page  15
equivalent each; (ii) works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; and (iii) 
consulting services under contracts with (A) firms costing less than $100,000, or (B) individuals 
costing less than $30,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain, in Dollars, a special deposit account in the name 
of DPEF (the Special Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
or attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals  shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. For each payment made out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, as the case may be, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower  shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B. 2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Page  16
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to four million Dollars ($4,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount of two million Dollars ($2,000,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account allocated to the Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
7,000,000).
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account should be made as follows:
Page  17
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
Page  18
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed six million Dollars ($6,000,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) improving the quality and 
relevance of teaching and learning processes and outcomes at all levels of the education sector; 
(b) promoting regional and gender equity in access to schooling, especially at the primary and 
secondary levels; (c) increasing the external efficiency of the education system by fostering 
closer linkages between technical and professional training, higher education and the labor 
market demands; and (d) enhancing the administrative, technical, pedagogical, and financial 
management capacity of the staff of  the education system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening the Administrative, Financial, and Pedagogic Management 
Capacity in the 
Education Sector
1.
Developing Overall Monitoring System
(a)
Development of an educational management information system through the 
development of criteria necessary for monitoring and policy decision making, including data on 
student and teacher ratios, examination results and educational cost breakdowns.
(b)
Reinforcement of planning and school mapping procedures, through the 
integration of planning methodology necessary for policy decision making, comprising, inter alia, 
(i) establishment of coherent data collection- and -analysis systems; (ii) integration of 
demographic-, contextual- and geographically based information; (iii) consultations with parents, 
school administrators and local officials; and (iv) IEC campaigns.
2.
Improving the Management of Human Resources in the Education Sector
(a)
Creation of  a structure in charge of human resources and upgrading of  the 
managerial skills of its personnel through, inter alia, structural reorganization, consolidation of 
personnel data information systems, and introduction of performance incentives for supervisors 
and administrative staff. 
(b)
Reforming of teacher deployment, compensation and career management 
through, inter alia, improvement of teacher promotion policies based on performance.
Page  19
3.
Development of a Results-Based Pedagogic Monitoring System 
(a)
Establishment of a performance based educational management system for 
central government and local administrative staff and school administrators.
(b)
Standardization of the learning assessment system and creation of a central 
examination office.
(c)
Development of criteria and procedures for the management of pedagogic 
materials.
4.
Improving the Financial and Administrative Management
(a)
Strengthening MEN’s competencies through the development of an  
organizational chart clarifying policy and decision making responsibilities, and improvement of 
facilities.
(b)
Establishment of, and assignment of responsibilities to, DRENs and appropriate 
staffing of said DRENs.
(c)
Appointment and retraining of key administrative staff in accordance with 
revised job profiles.
5
.
The provision of technical advisory services and training for selected staff and personnel 
of MEN, the acquisition of equipment for the carrying out of the activities required under Part A. 
1 through 4, and the carrying out of works for Parts A.3 (b), and A.4 (a) and (b).
Part B.
:
Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Education Services
1.
Primary Education: Improving the Quality of Teaching-Learning Contents and Processes
(a)
Development of professional profiles and provision of pre-service and in-service 
training for teachers, inspectors, pedagogic advisors and targeted administrative staff in 
accordance with pre-established profiles.
(b)
Development and implementation of a competency-based curriculum and 
provision of an adequate supply of teaching and learning materials to all teachers and students.
(c)
Development of a learning assessment system.
(d)
Strengthening of the pedagogic and managerial capacities of ENI staff.
2.
Secondary Education: Improving Quality and Efficiency  
(a)
Development of professional profiles and provision of pre-service training for 
teachers and in-service training for teachers, inspectors, pedagogic advisors and selected 
administrative staff.
Page  20
(b)
Development and implementation of a new competency-based curriculum.
(c)
Development and provision of textbooks to all educational establishments, and 
equipment of laboratories in selected educational establishments.
(d)
Development of a learning assessment system.
3.
Promoting ECD Activities 
(a)
Establishment of eight RRCs and rehabilitation of three RRCs.
(b)
Provision of pre- and in-service training to ECD staff in RRCs.
(c)
Establishment of a national center for: (i) curriculum development, and (ii) 
provision of training to RRC staff.
(d)
Establishment of an inter-sectoral ECD committee to develop a framework for 
ECD activities and promote IEC strategies.
(e)
Promotion of community based and privately sponsored ECD initiatives through 
the development and distribution of teaching-learning material and the provision of first aid kits.
4.
Promoting School Health
(a)
Promoting good practice of hygiene and nutrition at school-level through the 
training of teachers, the development and distribution of nutrition guides, and the promotion of 
IEC strategies.
(b)
Promoting preventive health care at school-level through the carrying out of 
vaccination campaigns, administering of anti-parasites’ tablets and micronutrients.
5.
The provision of technical advisory services and training for selected teachers, selected 
staff in MEN and SECF, the acquisition of equipment and the carrying out of works for  Parts 
B.3 (a) and (c) and the carrying out of the activities  required under Parts B.1 through 4.
Part C
.:
Promoting Access to- and Equity in Education
1.
Promoting Universal Access to Primary Education
(a)
Increasing the capacity for access to primary schools through: (i) ensuring that 
elementary schools cover six grades through extension of multigrade teaching methods; (ii) 
provision of water supply facilities; (iii) acquisition of equipment; and (iv) testing sustainable 
school maintenance procedures.
(b)
Encouraging teacher deployment in hardship areas through: (i) the carrying out 
of studies to identify such areas; (ii) design of incentive systems for teachers appointed to said 
areas; and (iii) the testing of said systems.  
Page  21
2.
Increasing Access to and Equity in Secondary Education 
(a)
(i) Rehabilitation of about 1,000 classrooms and about 300 latrines; (ii) provision 
of water supply facilities, (iii) construction of about 260 classrooms and adjacent facilities; and 
(iii) construction of about 30 small-scale colleges.
(b)
Acquisition of equipment for the classrooms and the small-scale colleges 
referred to in Part C.2 (a) above.
3.
Promotion of Girls’ Education
Promoting the enrollment of girls through the carrying out of studies identifying causes 
for gender differences in school attendance, testing the establishment of girls’ accommodations 
in selected villages, carrying out of IEC campaigns and provision of rewards to best performing 
students.
4.
Promoting the Private Sector Involvement in Education
Carrying out studies to review or design, as the case may be, and establish an appropriate 
institutional and legal framework for the fostering of private sector involvement in education and 
carrying out pilot operations.
5.
Promoting Functional Literacy and Non-formal Education
(a)
Strengthening the administrative and planning capacity of SEAEO through the 
provision of management training to selected SEAEO
staff.
(b)
Provision of training in literacy training methodologies to selected teachers and 
trainers and development and distribution of teaching materials.
(c)
Designing parameters allowing access to the formal education sector for students 
of the non-formal education systems through, inter alia, introduction of appropriate curricula in 
the Mahadras and the carrying out of pilot activities.
(d)
Promoting functional literacy programs carried out  by selected NGOs, selected 
other local entities and parents associations.
6.
Carrying out of works under Part C. 2 (a) of the Project and studies, provision of training 
to selected staff in MEN,  SEAEO, acquisition of equipment for the activities under Parts C.1 
through 5 above.
Part D:
Improving the Efficiency and Relevance of the Technical,  Vocational, and 
Higher 
Education Systems
1.
Strengthening the Linkage between the Technical and Vocational Training and Market 
Demands
(a)
Establishment of TVTF.
Page  22
(b)
Strengthening of the institutional framework for technical and professional 
training through: (i) provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of works for the 
establishment of INPFTP; (ii) development of strategies to assess needs-to-skill matches; (iii) 
carrying out of constant market monitoring activities; and (iv) provision of constant timely feed 
back of market information to the respective training institutions.
(c)
Strengthening the capacity of the Technical Education and Vocational Training 
Centers through: (i) the carrying out of works to renovate selected facilities; (ii) the provision of 
equipment to selected facilities; and (iii) the provision of training to selected trainers, instructors 
and tutors.
2.
Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Higher Education
(a)
Enhancing the financial and academic autonomy of the higher education 
institutions through, inter alia: (i) the carrying out of studies to define the administrative, 
academic and budgetary autonomy of DESUP, the University of Nouakchott and each of the 
IHEs and, pursuant to the recommendations of said studies, formulation of a coherent higher 
education policy; and (ii) drafting and adoption of legal regulations adequate for the enforcement 
of said policy.
(b)
Reforming public funding for higher education through: (i) the implementation 
of a transparent fund allocation policy among IHEs based on the said policy of the preceding 
paragraph (a); and (ii) the provision of training and overseas study tours for selected staff in 
MEN, the University of Nouakchott and selected IHEs.
(c)
Conclusion of agreements (
contrats programmes
)
between MEN and selected 
IHEs pursuant to the policies referred to in the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b).
(d)
Improving the teaching of science and technology and promoting scientific 
research through: (i) provision of training to selected teachers of science and technical classes in 
the UoN and selected IHEs; (ii) promotion of twining and technical assistance arrangements 
between UoN, IHEs and regional and international teaching and research institutions; (iii) 
promotion of IT; and (iv) provision of teaching and research equipment.
(e)
Professionalization and diversification of the training courses of UoN and IHEs 
through: (i) the carrying out of studies to develop a strategy establishing linkages with the private 
sectors and (ii) implementation of said strategy.
(f)
Carrying out studies to identify the organization and content of libraries for the 
faculties of UoN and design appropriate procurement methods and the acquisition of books 
pursuant to said method.
(g)
Carrying out of a Technical Study for a future consolidated UoN campus.
3.
Carrying out of studies for the carrying of the activities under Parts D.1 and 2, provision 
of training to selected staff in IHEs, acquisition of equipment for INPFTP and the IHEs.
Part E:
Subprojects
The provision of Grants for the carrying out of Subprojects under the following 
Page  23
programs:
(1)
the promotion by CBS of community-based school construction, including 
latrines, office-storage and fencing, and the provision of equipment;
(2)
the promotion by SPEG of decentralized mechanisms for school improvement;
(3)
the promotion by PSEG of private sector education;
(4)
the promotion by VTG of new methodologies of pre-service and in-service 
technical training;
(5)
the promotion by ECDG of community-based initiatives;
(6)
the promotion by RSG of IHE research projects; and
(7)
the promotion by LSG of functional literacy activities and Mahadras.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines);  and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank Member Countries” 
and “Member Country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  24
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
 
thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $10,200,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,390,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines;
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $570,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part C.1 (a) of the Project shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Force Account
Works for water supply to rural schools, up to an aggregate amount of $1,070,000 
equivalent will be executed through force account by DH under an agreement with DPEF.
5.
International Shopping
Goods not available on the local market, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract such as books and instructional materials, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$740,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  25
6.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $310,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
7.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Drugs and micronutrients, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $370,000 equivalent, may be procured from WHO or 
UNICEF, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and, irrespective of their amount, the first five contracts for works under any 
procurement category except for the provisions under (b) of this paragraph, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$30,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  26
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $ 100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, except for audits and other services considered critical to the Association.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines for:
(a)
the extension of the following activities or services rendered under the 
implementation of the Education V Project by the service providers having performed earlier 
services: (i) curricula and textbook development; (ii) multigrade and large group teaching; (iii) 
supervision of community-based construction; and (iv) project management staff; and
(b)
the  carrying  out of  Parts A.3 (b) and A.4 (a) and (b); B.3. (a) and (c); C.2 (iii); 
and D.1 (b) (i) and (c) (i) of the Project by AMEXTIPE.
3.
Consultant Qualifications
Services for training under the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
Page  27
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for training, research and selected studies that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Part E
:
Preview of Procurement for Grants 
With respect to procurement under Category 5 of the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement the provisions set forth in the respective Procedural Manuals applicable to each 
Grant category shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
General
Page  28
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through DPEF in accordance with procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, cancel or waive any 
provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment cancellation or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
B.
Coordination and Management
2.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it, through 
DPEF, to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual and summarized in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, the DPEF in a form and 
with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, including the following 
staff with qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the Association, namely: (i) the Project 
Director; (ii) a financial manager; and (iii) two procurement specialists. The Project Director 
shall be responsible for the administration of the Project and the furnishing to the CCP, CGP, and 
the Association, for review and comments, of the Project progress reports; he or she may 
delegate the administration of the Grants to a person or entity under his or her responsibility.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, CCP and CGP, both in 
a form and with functions and members satisfactory to the Association.
C.
Annual Reviews and Midterm Review
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, through the DPEF, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish annually to the CCP and CGP, and the Association, for review and 
comments, until the receipt by the Association of the Project Management Reports referred to in 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities, with particular emphasis on environmental safeguard policies, performed 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule 4, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and a draft work program, including a 
procurement plan and related budget and comments on measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
twelve month period following such date (Annual Review). The first such report shall be 
furnished to the Association no later than December 31, 2002 or such later date as the Borrower 
and the Association shall determine;
(b)
furnish to the Association, within four weeks after the submission of the report 
referred to in the preceding subparagraph, the comments of the CGP thereon; and
(c)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the submission of the 
comments referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, said comments and the report 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the views of the CGP and 
the Association on the reports.
Page  29
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by March 31, 2004, or such other date as the Association shall agree upon, carry 
out jointly with the CCP, CGP and the Association, a mid-term review (Midterm Review). The 
Borrower shall take all actions it considers necessary, to ensure the participation of 
representatives of  civil society and in particular parents associations in such Midterm Review. 
Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project 
and, more specifically, reflect on the effectiveness of the Subprojects and the Grants distribution 
methods
;
(b)
no later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, through the DPEF, furnish 
to the Association, for its review and comments, a report in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the implementation of the Project; and
(c)
following such Midterm Review, act promptly and diligently to take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Association, to attain the objectives of the 
Project.
D.
Specific Actions
7.
The Borrower shall carry out Parts C.1 (a) (ii) and C.2 (a) (ii) of the Project jointly 
through DPEF and DH.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
within two months following the Effective Date, establish CCP and CGP with 
members and responsibilities adequate to carry out its functions, satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
by June 30, 2002, or such date as the Borrower and the Association shall 
determine, furnish to the CGP and the Association, for approval, the implementation manual for 
VTG;
(c)
by December 31, 2003, or such date as the Borrower and the Association shall 
determine, furnish to the PMC and the Association, for approval, the implementation manuals for 
SPEG, PSEG, ECDG, LSG and RSG;
(d)
by December 31, 2003, or such date as the Borrower and the Association shall 
determine, furnish to the Association : 
(i)
for an exchange of views an organizational chart of MEN, and the study 
under Part C.1 (b) (ii) of the Project; and 
(ii)
for review, a policy strategy and action plan for textbook publishing and 
distribution within its territory under Part B.2 (c) of the Project, 
including a plan to privatize textbook publishing and distribution by 
December 31, 2005 at the latest.
9.
Terms and Conditions for  Subproject Grant Agreements
Page  30
Subprojects shall not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association, for approval, the Procedural 
Manual for each of the Grants outlining eligible Beneficiaries, terms of co-funding and 
implementation arrangements which shall, inter alia, provide for the following:
(i)
the amount of the proposed Grant and the Beneficiary’s contribution to 
the costs of the Subproject should adequately cover the total amount 
required for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(ii)
the Subproject Grant Agreement shall require the Beneficiary to carry 
out and maintain the Subproject in accordance with the Procedural 
Manual or the Project Implementation Manual, as the case may be, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
technical, educational, and financial criteria, maintain adequate records 
in such form and detail as the Borrower may reasonably request, procure 
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and use 
such goods exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(iii)
the exercise by the Borrower or the Association (if the Association shall 
so request) of the right to inspect the sites relevant to the Subproject, and 
any relevant documents;
(iv)
the exercise by the Borrower of the remedies in the Subproject Grant 
Agreement relating to the carrying out or the maintenance of the 
Subproject should such carrying out or maintenance not conform to the 
regulations set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and the 
Subproject Grant Agreement  and thereby unfavorably influence the 
economic return or general efficiency of the Subproject; 
(v)
the Beneficiary’s obligation to provide the Borrower or the Association  
with  all  such  information  as  the Borrower  or  the Association shall 
reasonably request, relating to the administration and financial condition 
of the Subproject; and
(b)
the Borrower, through DPEF and TVTF in the case of VTGs, and DPEF in the 
case of all other Grants, has entered into an agreement with a Beneficiary, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association (Subproject Grant Agreement) for the provision, on a grant basis, 
of financing a Subproject subject to the provisions of the Procedural Manual.
10.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subproject Grant Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
objectives of the Subproject and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subproject Grant Agreement or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
Page  31
Quality
1.
Average achievement of learning objectives by primary education students increases 
from 33% in the school year 1999 to 45% in the school year 2005. 
2.
Success rate in the first cycle of secondary completion exam (
Brevet d’études du premier 
cycle secondaire
 - grade 9) improves from 60% in the school year 1999 to 65% in school year 
2005.  
3.
Grade repetition in primary education is reduced from 15% in the school year 1999 to 
9% in school year 2005. 
Access and Equity
1.
Percentage of primary schools offering 6 grades has increased from 17.5% in school year 
1999 to 45% in school year 2005.   
2.
Retention rate in primary education has improved from 55% in school year 1999 to 67% 
in 2005.  
3.
Girls represent 49% of secondary education enrollment (first cycle) in school year 2005, 
compared to 43% in school year 1999.  
Relevance and Effectiveness
1.
At least 500 students are enrolled in apprenticeship schemes for the calendar year 2005.
2.
The internal efficiency rate (number of graduates in a given year divided by the number 
of students enrolled in the first year of higher education four years earlier) has increased from 
23% in the academic school year 1999 to 28% in the academic school year 2005.  
Financing and Management Capacity
1.
The MEN operating budget, as a share of all state revenues, has increased from 13.5% in 
FY 1998 to 14.4% in FY 2005.  
2.
The correlation rate between the number of teachers to students per primary school has 
increased from 79% in school year 1999 to 85% in school year 2005.
