Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16536-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
January 30, 1998
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(JuLne 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Forint (HUF)
1000 Forint   =    US$ 5.42
US$I   =    HUF I 84.67
US$1    =    DEM 1.756
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(US$1 = HUF)
CY1993        CY1994       October, 1996-      Jan, 1997         May, 1997
91.79         105.16          158.59            170.34            182.59
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CIP  -  Capital Investment Plan
ECTS  -  Europeanl Credit Transfer System
ELTE  -  University of Eotvos L6rant of Budapest
(Ebtv6s L6r6nt Tudonm,ny Egyetem)
EU  -  European Uniion
FEFA  -  Higher Education Development Fund (Felsooktatasi Fejlestesi Alap)
FTT  -  Higher Education and Scientific Council (Felsooktatasi es Tucdomaznvos
Testulet)
FPI  -  Higlher Education Grants Office (Felsookatasi Palyazat Iroda)
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
HAC  -  Hungariani Accreditation Council
HEA  -  Higher Educationi Association
HEI  -  Higher Educationi Institution
HUF  -  HuLngarian Forint
IDP  -  Institution Development Plan
LA  -  Loan Agreement
MAB  -  Hungarian Accreditation Council (Magyar Akkrediacio Bizottsag)
MOE  -  Ministry of Culture and Education
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NCC  -  National Credit Committee
NCO  -  National Credit Office
OECD  -  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PHRD       Policy and Human Resources Development Grant
PMU  -  Project Management Unit
PPF  -  Project Preparation Facility
QCBS  -  Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SECIL  -  Sector Investment Loan
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditure
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Jolhannes F. Linn, ECA|
Sector Director: Chris Lovelace (Acting), ECSHDl
Sector Leader James Socknat, ECSHD|
_ Responsible Staff. Fredrick L. Golladay, Ilona E. Szemzo (ECSHD)l



REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ....................................................................i
1.   INTRODUCTION  ....................................................................1
11. IMPLICATIONS OF ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING FOR HIGHER EDUCATION ..............2
111. ISSUES  IN  HIGHER  EDUCATION .................................. ..................................4
A. Lack of Responsiveniess ....................................................................5
B.  Inefficient Use of Resources ...................................................................                                   7
C.  Low  Non-Public Resource  Mobilization ...................................................................                         11
IV. ROLE OF THE STATE, LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND THE REFORM PROGRAM  ... 15
A. Role of tihe State in the Transitioni Process ...................................................................                  1  5
B. Legal Framework ...................................................................                                                15
C. Government Policy on  Higher Education  Development .................................................... 1 8
D. Constrainits on Reform  ................................................................... 19
V.   THE  PROJECT ................................................................... 20
A.  Bank Country  Objectives .                        ..................................................................             20
B. Project Objectives and Means .                           .          .................................................................  20
C. Detailed  Description  of Project Components .                             .        ................................................................. 22
1. Policy and Institutional Development ................................................................... 22
2. Higher Education  Institutions Investmenit Program ............................................... 26
3. Management Informationi Systems ...................................................................     28
4. Managemenit Capacity  Development ................................................................... 28
5.  Student Loan Program  ...................................................................                            29
6. Project Management and Project Preparation  Facility ........................................... 30
This report is based on the findings of two World Bank missions which visited Hungary between December 1996 and
May 1997.  The missions were comprised of R. Johanson. (Mission Leader. Consultant. ECI/2HR), P. Kleysteuber
(Operations Officer. EC1/2HR):  F. Golladay. (Economist. EMTPH); G. Novotny. Implementation Specialist.
EC2HU): A. Morgan, (Higher Education Policy, Consultant): F. Konigshofer (Information Technology, EMTPM);
D. Levy (Private Education, Consultant); G. Brest van Kempen (Civil Works, Consultant), G. Preddy (Normative
Financing, Consultant): R. Altman, (Monitoring and Evaluation, Consultant); Sector Director (Acting), Chris
Lovelace; Sector Leader, James Socknat (ECSHD); Peer Reviewers: G. Psacharopoulos (HDDDR); B. Laporte
(HDD); D. Steedman (ASTTP); W. Experton (LA IHR).



VI.   IMPLEMENTATION .................................................                                                                            31
A. Lessons Learned  and  Reflected  in the Project Design .................................................                            3 1
B. Approach .................................................                                                                        32
C. Organization  and Staffing of Project Implementation .................................................                              33
D. Procedures and Criteria for Investment Selection .................................................                                34
E. Schedule and Phasing .................................................                                                            35
F. Monitoring and  Evaluation .................................................                                                      37
G. Status of Preparation .................................................                                                           38
H. Indicatioiis of Borrower Commitment .................................................                                             39
VII.   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT                                                            .           ................................ 40
A. Project Costs .................................................                                                                   40
B. Project Financinig .................................................                                                              45
C. Disbursements .............................................................                                                       47
D.  Project Accounts and Audits .................................................                                                    49
E. Procurement Arrangements .................................................                                                        50
VIIII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................................                                                                      54
A. Project Costs and Benefits .................................................                                                       54
B. Distribution  of Benefits .................................................                                                        56
C. Project Risks .................................................                                                                    57
IX.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................................... 59
TABLES
6.1         Implementation Schedule .................................................                                                             35
7.1         Project Cost Summary by Component .................................................                                                  42
7.2        Project Cost Summary by Component and  Expenditure Category .......................................... 43
7.3         Project Cost Summary by  Expenditure Category .................................................                                      44
7.4         Project Financing Arrangements .................................................                                                     46
7.5         Schedule of Disbursements .................................................                                                           47
7.6         Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan .................................................                                             48
7.7         Procurement Arrangements .................................................                                                            5 1
ANNEXES
1.        Higher Education in Hungary
2.         Letter of Sector Development Policy on Higher Education
3.         Policy and Institutional Matrix
4.         Design of the Lending Operation
5.    A New Method of Student Allocation to Higher Education Institutions
6.         Private Higher Education Policy Statement
7.         Institution Development Plans (IDPs)
8.    Management Informationi Systems Development
9.    Management Development
10.   Student Loan Scheme
II.        Technical Assistance



12.    Project I-nplementationi Organizationi: Functions and Responsibilities
13.    Procedures and Criteria for lnvestinenit Selection
14.    Procedures and Criteria for Investmenlt Selection -- Subprojects
15.    Summary Schedule
16.   Conditions for Project Phases
17.   Monitoring Indicators
18.    Supervision Plan
19.    Schedule of Procurement Arrangemenits
20.    Economic Analysis
21.    Documents in the Project File
MAP: IBRD-26084-R



I



- i -
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Hungary
Guarantor:              Not Applicable
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Culture and Education
Beneficiary:            Institutions of higher education
Poverty:               Not Applicable
Amount:                 Deutsch Mark 263.6 million
Terms:                  Fifteen years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's LIBOR-
based fixed interest rate for German Mark single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:         0.75 percent, less any waivers
Onlending Terms:       N/A
Financing Plan:         See Table 7.4
Rate of Return:         Greater than 25 percenit
Staff Appraisal Report:    1 6536-HU
Map:                    26084-R
Project ID Number:      HU-PE-39449






1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Following a serious financial crisis in 1995 the Finance Minister introduced a set
of measures restricting financial outflows. devaluing the Hungarian currency, stimulating
exports, limiting imports. and reducing sharply the state budget for certain public
services, including higher education. Allocations for the salaries of higher education staff
were cut by 20 percent. (Each higher education institution (HEI) was allowed to make its
own decisions on how to implement the cuts.) Most HEIs were forced to cut staff
positions. Many of these cuts were achieved by laying off staff who were beyond
retirement age. but the shedding of staff was traumatizing to most institutions
nonetheless. A second set of budget reductions was planned for 1996. However, higher
education authorities were successful in arguing that across the board cuts did little to
root out the fundamental causes of inefficiency and were granted postponement of a
second round of cuts in anticipation of adoption of a basic reform program designed to
achieve greater efficiencies in the use of resources.
1.2   The Government of Hungary asked the World Bank to assist in developing a
higher education reform program and in financing its implementation. The Bank
identified a possible project in February. 1996 and provided assistance in the preparation
of the reform during missions in June and October 1996 and through a Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) grant approved in the fall of 1996. The Bank pre-
appraised the project in December 1996 and appraised it in May/June, 1997.
1.3   The Government of Hungary is now requesting a US$150 million loan from the
World Bank to support a US$250 million reform program which would be implemented
in three phases over a six year period. World Bank support of this project is
recommended because it will:
-Address critical socio-economic needls (Chapter 2);
-Attack the main weaknesses in the system of higlher education (Clhapter 3);
- Support a comprehensive reform program by the Government (Clhapter 4);
-Achieve botlh sector-wide reforms and reforms with in higher education institutions
(Chtapter 5);
-Employ effective implementation structures, procedures andphasing (Cltapter 5);
-Reduce costs of providing higlher education (Clhapter 7);
-Yield benefits tltatfar outweiglt the risks (Cliapter 8); and
-Adopt thte conditions requiredfor success. (Chapter 9).



2
2. IMPLICATIONS OF ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING
ON HIGHER EDUCATION
2.1   The liberalization of Hungary's political and economic systems is greatly
increasing the demand for higher education. The restoration of democratic government is
making broad public participation in politics and government, and the exercise of
political rights, important responsibilities of all citizens. To carry out these
responsibilities well will require an informed public with skills in the analysis of complex
social and economic issues.
2.2   The establishment of an open market economy is increasing the demand for a
well-educated work force. The adoption of market principles of economic organization is
creating a much greater need for the services of the managers, lawyers, accountants and
auditors needed to operate the financial systems and modern business organizations
characteristic of market economies. The acceleration of both technical and economic
change is also creating demand for a workforce that has not only mastered specific skills.
but also is able to acquire new skills and knowledge independently. In addition, the
future labor force increasingly will need to renew continuously and further develop skills
through life-long, independent, informal study. This will require competence in
identifying relevant sources of information, evaluating the quality of that information and
integrating the new information into structures that makes the knowledge useful. The
development of these higher level skills will demand that HEIs, rather than focusing on
the requirements of specific occupations, teach students as well how to organize learning
tasks, evaluate sources of information, and apply this knowledge to new and novel
situations.
2.3   Hungary's entry into the global economy is also imposing much more exacting
economic discipline on its producers. In addition. foreign firms are entering the
Hungarian market with high quality products and services, and competing with Hungary
for customers in its formerly protected markets in Eastern Europe. Hungary is seeking
economic integration with the European Union. This will not only create new
opportunities to produce and market goods and services, but also force Hungary to raise
the quality of its products and reduce its production costs and prices. These
developments are greatly increasing the demand for a technical cadre with the ability to
translate scientific findings and technical advances rapidly into competitive products and
services.
2.4   The pace of change and the intensity of competition are both likely to increase as
the economy continues to reform and globalization spreads. In order to profit fully from
this globalization and integration, Hungary must further develop its human resources. A
plausible case can be made that Hungary should ensure that by the turn of the century, or
shortly thereafter, 25-30 percent of its work force has completed programs of tertiary
education.
2.5   Fundamental changes are also required in the financing of the development of
skills. Higher education currently consumes about one percent of Gross Domestic



3
Product (GDP). The Hungarian fiscal system relies on the personal and corporate income
tax, value added tax and import duties as the major sources of public revenues. Tax
administration and compliance are enormous problems in Hungary. Marginal tax rates on
incomes of up to 60 percent for the personal income tax and 37 percent for social
insurance contributions encourage both individuals and businesses to operate outside the
formnal economy. The high cost of tax administration and the economic distortions
induced by efforts to avoid taxation together impose a large dead weight burden on the
economy; a unit of public expenditure must produce approximately 1.7 units of benefit in
order to be economically justified. For these reasons, making more efficient use of public
expenditures and transferring costs to private beneficiaries wherever possible have high
priority, including in higher education.
2.6   In addition, concern for equity implies that a larger share of the burden of
financing higher education should be imposed on the beneficiaries. The present system
of finance relies on tax revenues collected from all Hungarians in order to pay for the
provision of a valuable asset to less than fifth of the population. Moreover, the
beneficiaries of public spending on higher education are drawn primarily from the
relatively well to do. The issue of fairness has arisen with economic liberalization.
During the period when workers were unable to change employers easily and most
employment was in public sector organizations, the economic value to the worker of an
education was very small; most training was in effect for the benefit of a particular
employer and could not be marketed to other employers. However, the adoption of
market principles of economic decision making has begun to enable workers to sell their
labor services to the employer offering the most attractive pay and working conditions.
The marketing of labor services allows skilled workers to capture, as increased wages and
salaries, most of the gains due to their higher productivity. In order to make the
distribution of benefits equitable, a system of finance needs to be put in place that reduces
the implicit subsidies to students by collecting part of the costs of instruction from
beneficiaries. A system of higher education finance that imposes part of the burden of
costs on students might also be used to increase the funds available to the sector.



4
3. ISSUES IN HIGHER EDUCATION
3.1   Introduction. The Hungarian higher education system underwent major changes
between 1948 and 1989. At the conclusion of WW II, Hungary had 42 HEIs, 26 of which
were devoted to training in theology. The proportion of the population enrolled in higher
education was among the lowest in Europe. Following the Communist takeover, the
colleges and universities were expanded rapidly, doubling the number of students
admitted to the first year class between 1949 and 1952. The contents of higher education
were also radically changed. Students were channeled into engineering. natural sciences
and the economics of central planning, and away from law. theology and social sciences.
Responsibility for research and for the training of researchers was transferred from the
universities to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Classical multi-faculty universities
were split into smaller single-purpose institutions. By the end of the 1 980s, 90 HEIs were
operating. More than half of these institutions enrolled fewer than 500 students and
nearly a third enrolled fewer than 300. Only 3 HEIs enrolled more than 2500 students.
These small, higher education institutions were both highly specialized and isolated from
one another. Because of their small size, most were unable to provide serious libraries or
laboratory facilities. In addition, because of their isolation from one another, they were
unable to share these facilities or to provide student services such as canteens and
dornmitories economically. Registration of students across disciplines was generally not
possible. About half of all students were enrolled in programs that required 5 or 6 years
of fcormal study; the remaining half were enrolled in programs of 3 or 4 years duration.
Interdisciplinary research and teaching were virtually unknown. Class size was small and
unit costs were high.
3.2   Responding to the demands of a pluralistic democracy and modern market
economy will require that the proportion of the population that has received a higher
education increase by at least half to more than 25 percent. The education provided to
these students will need to stress skills in the application of knowledge to novel situations
and in life long learning, in addition to the skills necessary to obtain a first job. In order
to produce these broader skills, students will need to acquire a basic appreciation for
several fields of study in addition to their principal field of expertise. In order to achiieve
these goals at reasonable cost, the higher education system must join smaller faculties and
departments into multi- faculty universities in which resources and course offerings can
be shared among much larger numbers of students.
3.3   Hungarian higher education achieved a very high standard of excellence in the
past and as a result enjoyed an excellent reputation throughout the region and the entire
world. The system at one point produced the highest per capita rate of Nobel prize
winners in the world. However, the Hungarian higher education system is not well
prepared to meet the challenges that are emerging at the end of the 20th century. Three
overriding problems exist in the present system of higher education. First, the system is
rigid and unresponsive to the demands of a market economy (Section A, below). Second,
the system is inefficient and wastes enormous resources (Section B). Third. the system is
inequitable with the public sector financing virtually all the costs of the system and
private beneficiaries paying few of its costs (Section C). Each of the problems is
discussed in detail below. (A more detailed description of Hungary's system of higher
education and its evolution is provided in Annex I).



5
A. LACK OF RESPONSIVENESS
3.4    Hungary's higher education system is unresponsive to the demands created by a
market economy. Its lack of responsiveness is due to its being: a) relatively inaccessible
to all but an elite group, b) rigid and overspecialized in structure and in content, and c)
disconnected from the external economic and social environment. Each of these topics is
discussed in sequence below.
3.5   Inaccessibility. Basic education has been universally accessible in Hungary for
several decades; around 90 percent of the relevant age group successfully completes the
basic 8 year primary cycle. In addition, the majority of Hungarian children attend pre-
school. Participation in secondary education is also high: about 80 percent of those
completing the primary cycle go on to some form of secondary education.
3.6   In contrast to broad participation in primary and secondary education, Hungary's
higher education system has been small and elitist. In 1991. higher education enrolled just
12 percent of the population age 18-22.' Liberalization of the economic and political
systems has produced a sharp increase in demand for access to higher education. Since
the start of the transition, enrollment of full-time students in higher education has risen
rapidly from around 83,000 in 1991 to 146,000 in 1996. As a result of this expansion. the
participation rate of the relevant age group has increased to around 17 percent. Despite
the increases, Hungary still falls short of the participation rate found in most Western
European countries (typically between 25-30
3.7    Structural Rigidities and Overspecialization. Half the students are enrolled in 5-6
year degree programs (roughly equivalent to a master's degree in the western sense).
Students are admitted by faculties into over 350 specializations. Specialization starts in
the first year of study2. Little or no possibility exists for transfer from one specialization
to another. The sequence of courses was specified and few electives were permitted until
recently. The budget for a department was determined on the basis of the number of
classes, rather than the number of students taught, and thus inter-disciplinary study and
cross-registration among departments was difficult. The preponderance of small,
specialized institutions also limited the breadth and variety of subjects that could be
offered. Finally, there was lack of articulation among the levels of the system. Students
could not transfer from one program to another program or from one level to another
without starting their studies over from the beginning. Graduates of colleges are not
permitted to pursue post-graduate studies without first completing a university degree.
3.8    Programs of study stress mastery of a body of knowledge. rather than skills in
solving problems, thinking independently or keeping pace with developments in a field.
Students are allowed little opportunity to develop and test their creativity or to acquire
problem solving skills. As stated in a Hungarian document:
I One of the strengths of the elitist system has been a record of exceptional throughput rates. Reportedly
90% of entering students eventually complete their programs and obtain the relevant credentials.
2The choice of specialization occurs at about age 14 when the student must begin to prepare to entry to
higher education.



6
Students who complete higher education in Hungary are, by international comparison,
well-prepared and knowledgeable in a broad range of subjects, but generally they are
less independent. The reasons fbr this are probably the teaching philo,sophy and method.s
found in Hungary, characterized by many in-class hours, a lack of continual evaluation
and the concentration of many examinations during the final exam period. Students are
left with little time to develop and test their creativity and problem-solving skills. Under
the current, rapidly changing circumstances, there is a great need for graduates of higher
education to be more independent, and for their ability to recognize problems as well as
address them to increase. The natural way to achieve this is by reorganizing education,
reducing contact hours and increasing the importance of independent study and problem-
solving. 3
3.9    Unresponsiveness. The higher education system has not been fully responsive to
the needs of the economy. Enrollments in both colleges and universities increased by
half during the first four years of the transition. Important changes occurred in the
proportion of students enrolled by field of study. Enrollments in engineering programs
decreased from about 30 percent of the total to just under 15 percent between 1989 and
1994; over the same period enrollments in the social sciences increased from less than 5
percent of the total to about 25 percent.4 Nonetheless, much of the absolute growth has
been in fields with limited employment prospects, and little or no demand from students.
No field of study has contracted. For example, enrollments in medicine, agriculture and
technical fields have increased by 13 percent, 20 percent and 27 percent, respectively.
even though both job prospects for graduates and demand from students, are poor. The
system has a self-sustaining character that does not facilitate the reduction of installed
capacities.
3.10   The unresponsiveness of enrollments to market prospects has resulted from
centralized control of enrollments in which student choice plays little role, a financial
allocation system that pays little attention to actual enrollments, and a public sector
monopoly of educational opportunities. In 1996 the state allocated enrollment places
among institutions in 64 institution-specific fields. It assembled proposals prepared by
the HEls themselves and resolved conflicts according to the political influence of each
institution. Student demand has played a minor part in determining allocation of state-
financed student places among institutions or fields of study. Student choice has tended
to mirror labor market demand for skills in such areas as economics, management, law
and foreign languages The supply of places has reflected the capacity of training
programs. In view of the excess total demand for places, students with weaker scores
often have been admitted to particular programs of study that have insufficient numbers
of applications. In several institutions more students have been accepted for admission in
'unpopular' fields than had applied for admission. This practice has tended to perpetuate
out-of-date programs for which there is insufficient demand. Allocation of government
support has been based on historical budget levels and the political influence of the HEI
administrations, not by the number of students enrolled. In contrast, commercially-
3 Szeged Group Reform Proposals, August, 1995, p.7.
4Bruno Laporte and Dena Ringold, "Trends in Education Access and Financing During the Transition in
Central and Eastern Europe," Social challenges of Transition Series, Technical Paper No. 361, World
Bank, 1997. pp. 15-16.



7
oriented private higher education has been more responsive to both to student and
economic demands. It has offered. instruction in fields with strong economic prospects
for employment such as informatics and computer science. However, low public sector
tuition has discouraged the growth of private education.
3.11  Improving the relevance and increasing the flexibility of higher education require
that the proportion of youth enrolled in higher education institutions be increased; that the
objectives of higher education be redirected, away from finished occupational skills and
towards the capacity to learn and master new concepts; and that greater flexibility be
ensured through measures such as establishment of foundation courses, deferral of
specialization and promotion of ability to transfer out of fields less in demand towards
those in greater demand.
B. INEFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES
3.12   Before the transition period began, Hungary had one of the highest recurrent costs
per student in all of Europe including Western Europe. In 1993 Hungary's public
expenditure on higher education per student was 86 percent of per capita GDP, compared
with an average of 45 percent for OECD countries and 30 percent for Germany.
Moreover, Hungary spent about 3.3 times as much per student on higher education as it
did in primary education, while OECD countries spend on average about 2.5 times as
much.
3.13   Spending also varied enormously from institution to institution. The system
concentrated about 40 percent of the students in Budapest (where 25 percent of the
population resides and costs are relatively high.5
3.14  Reductions in unit costs have occurred over the past five years as enrollments
have increased by half and budgets have remained frozen. However, the reduction in unit
costs has been achieved primarily by permitting faculty salaries to decline sharply rather
than increasing efficiency. In 1996, the average salary for professors was US$6650. The
reduction in funding has also been absorbed in part by neglecting maintenance and failing
to maintain library collections.
3.15   Several interrelated factors explain the relatively high unit costs: a) high non-
teaching costs; b) fragmentation in the system; c) emphasis on high cost programs; d)
low ratio of students to staff; e) rigid state budgeting procedures; and f) inappropriate
governance and management practices. These are explained sequentially below.
3.16   High Non-Teaching Costs. Hungarian higher education is characterized by
generous support to students from the state. Students in higher education receive stipends
equivalent to about 10 percent of the cost of higher education (HUF 65.000 or US$480
equivalent per student in 1996). In addition, Hungary has approximately twice as many
non-teaching staff per teaching staff member as countries in Western Europe. In contrast,
5In the field of law, for example. the cost per student ranged from 146 units at ELTE in Budapest. to 89 in
Miskolc, to 80 in Szeged and to 73 in Pecs.



8
private colleges have much smaller administrative staff per student than public
institutions. Administrative offices in particular tend to employ many more people than
actually needed, a carry-over from the previous era when full employment was a goal and
many jobs were created artificially.
3.117  Fragmentation. The fragmented institutional network is a significant part of the
system's socialist heritage under which institutions were divided and kept small. Today,
Htmgary -- with a population of about 10 million -- has 90 HEIs, including 57 state and
33 private, in 31 different locations. The average size is 2600 students per university and
16,00 students per college. These enrollment levels are only one fifth the average per
institution in other European countries of comparable size--Austria, Finland, the
Netherlands and Sweden. These relatively small sizes do not permit institutions to realize
economies of scale.
3.18   Fragmentation is also traceable to a proliferation of departments and majors
within institutions. In 1995 over 350 different "majors" were offered. This situation is a
consequence of the socialist emphasis on manpower planning under which students were
trained for specific occupations projected to be needed in the command economy. The
higher education budgeting system has encouraged faculties to split into smaller units in
order to secure authority to appoint additional senior faculty. The HEIs can establish new
teaching positions independently, so long as the institution stays within the existing
teaching budget. The career path for outstanding staff may be blocked by incumbent
professors; hence a way around this system is to create a new department which
automatically establishes a new professor position, and related teaching and
adnministrative posts. In short, incentives built into the system tend to proliferate teaching
positions.
3.19   Emphasis on High-cost Disciplines. Bv comparison to OECD countries, a vely
large proportion of students have been enrolled in programs in medicine, the laboratory
sciences and engineering which are relatively costly to provide. In addition, most
programs of study require unusually long periods of time--including extensive practical
instruction--in order for a student to obtain a formal credential. Just over half the students
are studying for university degrees which take 5 or 6 years. The remaining study in
colleges for 3 to 4 years. Shorter programs of study are not provided. Thus, the average
length of study is over four years, exceeding the average in most other European
countries.
3.20   Low Student: Faculty Ratios. The expansion of enrollments in the 1990s, coupled
with budget cuts in 1995 (which led to elimination of 10 percent of the existing teaching
posts), increased the average ratio of student to staff from 5 in 1989 to 8 in 1996.
However, this ratio is still low in comparison to OECD countries, which range from II in
Germany to 29 in Denmark and with average ratios in the Netherlands (14), USA (16)
and (France 18). Recent shifts in enrollments by field of study have also resulted in
major disparities within higher education institutions (HEIs) in student-staff ratios. For
exarnple, in one university the expanding enrollments of 450 computer science students
are taught by 30 teaching staff, a ratio of 15 students per instructor while a field with the
declining enrollments --chemistry-- 250 students are taught by 75 teaching staff, a ratio of
only about 3 to 1.



9
3.21   Low ratios of students to staff are the product of three factors: (a) large
requirements for in-class instruction (b) low average class sizes; and (c) a relatively low
number of teaching hours by the teaching staff.
(a) Large requirements for in-class instruction. Students are taught mainly
through classroom or laboratory instruction, i.e. knowledge is directly imparted by
instructors. The system requires students to spend a large amount of time in class
(averaging 28 hours per week and up to 45 hours for medical colleges). Oral
examinations are required at the end of the term in most subjects. Little
independent study is expected.
(b) Low average class sizes. Average class size tends to be small due to several
factors: First, specialization starts immediately upon entry into higher education
and this results in small class groups. Second, there is little consolidation of
courses. There is no tradition of service courses in the initial years of higher
education, in which students from different faculties take basic courses together in
fields such as mathematics, foreign languages or basic sciences. Third. most
teaching is carried out in seminars and small groups. The College of Economics.
for example, gives over 60 percent of its classes in either seminars or small
groups.
(c) Relatively low weekly teaching loads. There is no central regulation or
definition of required teaching hours per week for staff. Laws do not define a
unified system of requirements for teachers. The public employee law sets
salaries on the basis of age, seniority and foreign language proficiency rather tllan
workload. Moreover, recent declines in relative wages have forced teaching staff
to seek second jobs, making staff less likely to be able to meet teaching
obligations at the base institution. Some institutions, such as Szeged University,
have adopted minimum teaching requirements. In general, teaching loads vary
widely, but are approximately as follows: 6 hours a week for professors and
adjunct professors, and 12 hours a week for docents and teaching assistants.
3.22   Rigid State Budgeting Procedures. The rules governing state financing also
contribute to low efficiency. Resources cannot be moved around the sector in order to
maximize their effects. In addition, institutions typically lack internal mechanisms to
reallocate teaching positions and other resources in accordance with shifts in student
enrollments.
(a) Lack of transparency. The basis for financial allocations in higher education
has been opaque. Budget allocations have been made to institutions based on
historical spending and bargaining. Under the socialist system in the later
years only a fraction of the total eventual expenditures had been even shown
in the budget. The rest had been obtained through a process of individual
bargaining between HEls and authorities in power. This bred corruption and
tended to perpetuate the system in place. Historical costs and the relative
influence of the HEI management in bargaining with central authorities
became the determining factors in the budget process. This process tended to
favor traditional, prestigious universities in Budapest.



10
(b) Lack of institutional control over their own resources. State money has been
distributed under five (an unnecessarily large number) budget headings,
between which institutions may not transfer funds without prior approval from
the Ministry of Education (MOE). The MOE has frequently made cuts in
budgets after the start of the year, usually to meet targeted cuts imposed by the
Ministry of Finance. This has played havoc with the budgets of the
institutions. A university in Pecs had 57 budget changes imposed on it by
central authorities during the year.
(c) Lack of incentives to save. Traditionally, the HEIs have not been allowed to
retain savings or to carry over funds from one year to the next, thus
undermining incentives to economize. Instead, institutions have been
encouraged to spend the funds by the end of the year, even in irrational ways.
in order not to give the funds back to the central authorities. Recently, carry-
overs have been permitted, but authority to spend these has not been granted
until about half-way through the budget year, by which time much of the
value had vanished due to high rates of inflation.
(d) Lack of fiscal discipline. Cost overruns have not been penalized, particularlv
for large, influential universities. Several universities in Budapest, including
the Medical University and ELTE, have routinely overspent their budgets and
successfully appealed for additional funds. This lack of financial discipline
has had a corrosive effect on the entire system. Imposing sanctions on
institutions which incur deficits would have a positive effect on efficiency.
(e) Lack of accountability. There has been little accountability for use of the
funds received. Budgets have not been based on an analysis of the
performance of the institutions in fulfilling their responsibilities. Moreover.
formal audits have been conducted only every two or three years.
3.23  Ineffective Governance and Inadequate Management Practices. The governance
and management of higher education institutions have provided few incentives for
efficiency and saving costs.
Governance. Higher education is managed by people with academic and scientific skills
rather than management experience. Rectors are elected by academic staff (60 percent of
the vote) and students (25-33 percent of the vote.) These posts are of a short term nature
after which the rector resumes his or her academic career. Because rectors are elected for
short terms, they have little incentive to undertake difficult decisions or to rationalize
spernding since such initiatives would lower the chances for re-election or would engender
resentment among future academic colleagues. Formal management training is not
available for rectors at present.
Management Practices. Management practices tend to be outdated and ineffective. Little
effort goes into establishing mission statements, objectives, alternative scenarios., target
setting and planning means to achieve them.



I1
3.24 In sum, priorities for improvements in efficiency are:
(a) consolidating institutions, and departments within institutions, to realize
economies of scale,
(b) increasing the average number of students taught per faculty member;
(c) financing on the basis of actual enrollments and average unit costs rather
than historical levels;
(d) granting greater financial authority for HEIs; and
(e) professionalizing HEI management.
C. Low NON-PUBLIC RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
3.25 Hungarian higher education is the heavily dependent on the state for its funding.
About 85 percent of total education costs are financed by the state.6 Higher education's
heavy reliance on state funding is undesirable for three reasons. First, use of public
revenues to finance tertiary education for a small fraction of the population redistributes
wealth from the tax-paying public to students. The Hungarian tax system is afflicted with
serious problems of tax compliance which result in the burden of taxation falling
disproportionately on those who are less well off. The select few who receive a free.
public higher education may look forward, as a result, to a lifetime income that is more
than twice that of the average citizen. A system of higher education finance that places a
greater share of the cost of instruction on the beneficiary would be desirable. Second,
over-reliance on a single source of revenues - the state budget - makes higher education
vulnerable to political events. If higher education institutions were able to diversify their
sources of funding and to exercise greater control over the mobilization of funds, they
would become significantly more autonomous. Third, the present system of higher
education finance does not link directly the performance of an institution and the
resources available to it. The budgets provided by the state to similar faculties for each
student enrolled vary by a factor of two. Introduction of a system of user charges would
ensure that part of an institution's income would be related to the number of students
enrolled in it.
3.26   The main factors contributing to low levels of non-state resource mobilization are
(a) low levels of cost recovery from students; (b) lack of a loan system for students; (c)
lack of incentives to generate income from other sources; and (d) constraints on the
development of private higher education. Each factor is discussed in sequence below.
6The proportion of the higher education budget financed by the state is somewhat lower in higher
education because of the sale of services. Hungarian higher education presently derives about 15 percent
of its revenues from the sale of goods and services. The largest component of earned income is obtained
from the sale by medical faculties of hospital services. In 1996. 7 percent of the consolidated higher
education budget was derived from the provision of health services financed through the social insurance
system.



12
3.27  Low Cost Recovery from Students. There is little private resource mobilization at
public HEIs. Tuition fees at public HEIs were introduced in 1995 at a monthly tuition of
HUF 2000 per month (US$18 in 1995 and currently US$11 equivalent) for ten months or
HUF 20,000 per year. In addition, institutions were authorized to charge a higher
supplemental fee, but they chose not to introduce the supplemental fee following protests
by students. The tuition applies to all full-time students in undergraduate or doctoral
training. One fifth of the students at each HEI may be granted full or partial tuition
waivers on the basis of academic performance or financial need. Part-time students can
be charged a supplementary fee of up to HUF 8000 per month. No limitations have been
placed on tuition fees for other programs, including study for a second diploma and
specialized advanced training. Revenue from tuition of all kinds is about HUF 7 billion
which is equal to about 20 percent of all HEI revenues and covers about 7.5 percent of
higher education expenses.
3.28  Anyone admitted to higher education as a state sponsored student receives his or
her education virtually free cost, while those not selected for sponsorship must pay the
full cost. A student support allowance of HUF65,000 (US$480) per student is provided
to each institution. The allowance is distributed by student organizations at each HEI
either on the basis of academic achievement or uniformly to all students, but not on the
basis of need. The system would be more equitable if (a) all students were required to
pay the same amount of tuition, and (b) scholarships were used to encourage study in
fields of great national interest or were targeted on students in need.
3.29  Lack of a Student Loan System. User fees should be introduced in order to
distribute the costs of higher education more equitably, ensure greater stability in
institutional revenues and provide incentives to use resources efficiently. However, an
abrupt change in the rules of the game would exclude large numbers of otherwise
promising students from the higher education system since parents have not expected to
pay and thus have not saved to meet such costs, and loans for education expenses are
difficult to obtain. Moreover, high rates of inflation since 1990 would have seriously
eroded the value of any savings that families might have accumulated.
3.30  A student loan program should be created to deal with this problem. The
availability of student loans would permit an increase in tuition rates and would allow
recovery of some of the costs of higher education from beneficiaries. A student loan fund
woulcl not only mobilize additional funds for higher education, but would also diversify
the sources of funding for higher education and reduce the amount of the implicit transfer
to students who gain admission to public colleges and universities. The Ministry of
Education and Culture has developed a small "credit" program to help students cover
living expense while attending school, but this has not been implemented on a significant
scale.
3.31   The creation of an effective student loan program would require overcoming
several formidable obstacles. First, applying a means test to identify students who should
be eligible for state subsidies would be very difficult. Countries that operate subsidized
student loan schemes rely on reports of income and wealth to the tax authorities in order
to estimate ability to pay for schooling and capacity to repay loans. Tax compliance in
Hungary is low and the accuracy of self-reporting is unsatisfactory. Second. consumer



13
credit is underdeveloped in Hungary and thus there is little tradition of voluntary
repayment and little onus attached to default. The principal enforcement mechanism in
Western societies is the threat that default will be reported to credit rating agencies and
thus the defaulter denied access to a home mortgage, car loan or credit card. These forms
of consumer credit are not important to most Hungarian households and thus the threat is
believed to be of little import. Third, the enforcement of loan repayment is usually
facilitated by the borrower's sense that the lender has a legitimate claim on the borrower.
This sense of obligation derives from recognition that the loan has supported the purchase
of something of value, and that the terms of the purchase were fair. The history of highly
subsidized higher education in Hungary undermines this sense of obligation.
3.32  The implementation of a student loan scheme would also require dealing with the
problems inherent in lending large sums of money on a long term basis without collateral.
Students generally do not have an established credit history which might be used to
assess their character. Few have significant tangible assets that might be pledged as
collateral for the loan. The earnings prospects of students are not clear at the time that a
loan might be made. In addition, double-digit inflation in Hungary makes nominal term
interest rates on fixed rate loans very high and thus imposes large risks on borrowers if
inflationary expectations are not realized. Innovative lending products that index the
unpaid principal amount of the loan to recognize inflation or that adjust interest rates
frequently might be considered. Application procedures that identify a large network of
friends and family members might be employed to simplify the tracing of defaulters.
Adopting an income contingent repayment scheme (possibly associated administratively
with the social security system in which most Hungarians participate) and a program of
forbearance for persons who are unemployed, disabled or faced with exceptional financial
crises might also be used to avoid formal default and thus increase the probability of
eventual repayment.
3.33  Constraints on the Development of Private Higher Education. The Education Law
of 1990 authorized the chartering of private colleges and universities. Thirty-five private
colleges and universities have since received charters. These institutions respond to the
demand for skills created by the emerging market economy and for religious instruction.
Some also serve those who failed to gain admission to public institutions. The private
higher education system includes 30 institutions which were returned to churches in 1'990
having been seized by the state in 1947. Five new "foundation" schools have been
created on a for-profit basis. Private institutions currently enroll about 10 per cent of all
students in higher education, with enrollment divided roughly equally between the
foundation colleges and church-owned colleges and universities. The foundation colleges
charge fees ranging from HUF 60.000 to 75.000 per semester which is about twice the
average monthly salary and about 6-8 times the tuition fee charged by public institutions
to students who are not state sponsored. Private institutions which have been recognized
by the state receive considerable state support. Some of the church-owned institutions
receive full state support. The total state support to one business college represented
about 40 percent of its total budget in 1996. The rapid growth of privately owned and
financed higher education institutions reveals the willingness of some beneficiaries to pay
for higher education. The expansion of private higher education could supplant the need
for state financing of students, and could thus achieve savings for the state budget.



14
3.34   The development of private education is impeded by several factors. First, the
procedure for gaining state recognition is time consuming. In one instance, the Higher
Education and Scientific Council (FTT) declined to approve the opening of a new
business college without stating the reasons, even though the college had obtained
preliminary approval from the accreditation authorities. Second, the legal status of non-
profit organizations has not been adequately codified. Third, the tax code provides no
incentives for private contributions to non-profit private schools.
3.35  In sum, the main requirements for increased non-state resource mobilization are:
(a) all students (both state sponsored and non-sponsored) should pay the same
tuition fees;
(b) subsidies should be targeted to students according to financial need;
(c) a student loan program should be established;
(d) financial incentives for HEIs to mobilize resources should be introduced:
and
(e) non-state financed incentives for expansion of private higher education
should be introduced.



15
4. ROLE OF THE STATE, LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND
THE REFORM PROGRAM
A. ROLE OF THE STATE IN THE TRANSITION PROCESS
4.1   The state must play a substantial role in the short term in the reform of higher+
education, but it must also fulfill several functions in the longer term as well if the system
is to function efficiently and equitably. State institutions provide about 90 percent of all
higher education in Hungary. These institutions have been granted considerable
autonomy since 1989. including authority over the admission of students and the
selection of faculty. In addition, Hungarian higher education institutions have been
allowed some limited discretion in the use of funds allocated to them from the state
budget. The state operates an accreditation system and approves the granting of degrees
in new areas of study. The regulatory and oversight functions are likely to be carried out
by the state in the future, supplemented by professional organizations and associations of
higher education institutions. The state is also likely to continue to provide significant
budgetary support for higher education. This support is justified by the need to
encourage reform of the higher education system and to ensure research and teaching in
fields of national importance.
4.2   The state is also likely to play a major role in providing education loans to
students. The precedent has been established of charging students for instruction.
However, tuition charges which are large enough to recover a significant fraction of the
cost of providing instruction can only be imposed if a student loan program is made
available (see paragraphs 3.31 - 3.34). A guarantee, supported by the state, will be
required as a substitute for collateral in order attract private lenders to this sector. The
state may also recover student loans more efficiently than the private sector, through the
use of the administrative apparatus of the income or payroll tax systems.
4.3   The state has an important role to play in assembling and disseminating
information about labor market conditions and prospects. The efficient operation of the
market for higher education will require that consumers are informed about not only the
options before them, but also the likely consequences of each course of action. The state
should collect, analyze and disseminate such information.
4.4   Finally state intervention is needed in the near term in order to ensure that past
investments in physical, human and social infrastructure for higher education are
conserved during the transition. The existing colleges and universities represent very
large commitments of economic resources and human talent. During the transition, the
state should continue to ensure the preservation of these assets.
B. LEGAL FRAMEWORK
4.5   The legal basis for higher education has been articulated in three recently enacted
laws and a Parliamentary Resolution. The laws have defined the administrative structure,
intermediaries and autonomy of higher education institutions (HEIs). The Government
has consolidated these reforms and extended them to cover new issues in a "Letter of



16
Sector Development Policy" (Annex 2). Together these instruments provide an adequate
legal and policy basis for the reform of higher education. The following sections
summarize these laws and the Letter of Sector Development Policy.
4.6   The Education Law of 1990 (a) allows HEIs to determine the number and type of
admissions; (b) gives HEIs the right to nominate professors, subject to Government
confirmation; (c) permits the establishment of non-state (private) HEls; and (d) confirms
a 1985 initiative that eliminated Marxist ideology from the curriculum and limited the
role of the MOE in defining curricula and selecting personnel.
4.7   The Law on Higher Education of 1993 (a) places all higher education institutions
under the supervision of the Ministry of Education, and unifies the higher education
budget with effect from January 1995; and (b) defines the role of the Ministry of
Education as supervisory oversight of HEIs. strategic planning, preparation of education
policies, approval of the founding and abolition of faculties, and monitoring of the use of
central resources. The Law established two key intermecdiary institutions to provide
professional advice on development and control of higheir education: the Hungarian
Accreditation Council (HAC) and the Higher Education and Scientific Council (FTT).
HAC had been created in November 1992 to review proposed postgraduate programs in
HEIs; the Law of 1993 confirmed its status as a quasi-independent body. The HAC
renders opinions on the establishment or recognition of H[EIs, establishment or abolition
of fields of study, and requirements for qualifications. In addition, the Law specified that
HAC must assess the standard of education and research for each HEI every eight years.
The Law specifies that the FTT should propose and advise on priorities in development
programs and research; establish or abolish courses, faculties, and institutions; recognize
non-state HEIs; recommend the distribution of budget support; and recommend the size
and allocation of student admissions.
4.8   The Education Law of 1993 also established norms-based budgeting. The norms
are related primarily to the number of students enrolled by type of institution and field.
The Law defines five budget headings: student support, training, facilities maintenance,
program development, and research. The aims of the new financing initiative are first to
distribute state budget in accordance with HEI performance, and second to increase the
cost effectiveness of higher education. The HE1s may use the budgets without
restrictions within each category but may not transfer funds between categories witlhout
prior authorization from central authorities. In addition, the Education Law of 1 993
states that students must pay tuition and other fees in higher education, but leaves it to a
Government decree to establish the levels.
4.9   The Law of 1993 also gave students considerable influence over HEI affairs. It
provided them with control of one-fourth to one-third of the votes on HEI institutional
councils. It granted students the right (to be exercised through democratically-elected
student unions) to participate in decisions regarding admissions, examinations, selection
of elective course offerings, choice of outside speakers, evaluation of teaching staff.
management of dormitories, and allocations of student support stipends.
4.10  Finally, the 1993 Law called for the promulgation of a law on the development of
higher education within two years. The Government interpreted this as requiring that a



17
Government Resolution set out the principles for further development of higher
education, in order to counterbalance the effect of budgetary cuts.
4.11  The 1995 Parliamentary Resolution defined goals for development of higher
education: (a) increasing student numbers; (b) creating a flexible system of levels in
higher education with transferability between levels and the introduction of a unified
national credit system; (c) assuring that the allocation of state funds is based on quality
rather than public or private ownership (i.e. "sector neutrality"); (d) increasing the
efficiency of the HE system by the increasing the economic independence of HEIs and by
mobilizing non-state resources (including tuition and other sources): (e) modernizing and
professionalizing HEI management along with greater consideration for labor market
needs; (f) increasing cooperation between HEls and research institutes; (g) standardizing
the qualification requirements system and the workload of teaching staff, together with
revisions of salaries and inclusion of teachers as public employees.
4.12   The July 1996 Amendment of the Law on Higher Education integrates post-
secondary vocational training into HE. The Amendment creates a four-tier structure of
higher education, with the introduction of two-year vocational training at its base. The
four tiers of the system are two years for higher vocational programs; 3-4 years for
college programs, 4-6 years for university programs and 1-3 years for postgraduate
programs and 3 years for doctoral programs. Higher education institutions may conduct
accredited post-secondary vocational training and one-third of the credits acquired in
courses of these programs must be accepted by the colleges and universities.
4.13   The Amendment also took steps to lessen the control by the Ministry of Education
of the HAC and the FTT. The HAC is now an independent body reporting to Parliament;
its decisions can no longer be overturned by the Minister of Education. The FTT nev"
elects its own President and the Ministry of Education has only one representative.
Proportional representation of private higher education institutions is mandated. The
FTT now operates a Training and Research Strategy Subcommittee and a Finance
Committee. The Amendment mandates a National Credit Council to be coordinated by
the FTT. The task of the Council is to design, and to begin implementing a national
credit system by the end of 1997. One of FTT's responsibilities is to prepare a new
decree to adapt broader definitions of academic requirements by discipline.
4.14  The Amendment also initiates the integration of individual institutions into multi-
faculty colleges and universities. It creates the legal framework for integration and
defines the organizational structure, and operation and finance of educational federations
as a step towards full integration into multi-faculty colleges and universities. The
Amendment allows for federations to become fully merged within two years. It identifies
four conditions for successful association: (a) proximity; (b) complementary activities, (c)
elimination of duplication of administrative, educational and research activities, and (d)
establishment of a common management and financing system. The Amendment
provides that the rights and responsibilities of associations shall be exercised by a senate
and full-time president and that a Government Decree will establish the specific
requirements for forming associations.



18
4.15  Finally, the Amendment earmarks funds for Higher Education Development. The
Law stipulates that four funds be created, including: (a) salary supplements for
outstanding professors; (b) research and development; (c) program development: and (d)
books and libraries. The MOE is to administer and allocate the funds on a competitive
basis.
C. GOVERNMENT POI,ICV ON HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
4.16  The Government has formulated its policy on the further development of the
system of higher education over the medium term (Annex 2, Letter of Sector
Development Policy). The main objectives of the policy are: to adjust to and support the
market economy; to facilitate accession to the European Union, to maintain higlh quality
standards while ensuring greater access; to use public resources efficiently; and to
increase non-state revenues for higher education.
4.17  The strategy for higher education calls for an expansion of enrollments to
accommodate 25-30 percent of the age group, mainly by channeling increases into short-
cycle higher education. The allocation of state-funded places to HEIs, both increases and
decreases, and is to be based on student demand and an assessments of needs for
occupations of particular concern to the public sector. The content and structure of
teaching is to be made more flexible through introduction of a credit system based on
full-time equivalency and relaxation of detailed requirements for degrees and certificates.
4.18  Trends in governance will be reinforced. The Ministry of Education will
gradually decrease its role in routine supervision of institutions and will increase its role
in strategic planning. Umbrella organizations will be restructured in accordance with the
new Law in terms of orientation and composition. In particular, steps will be taken to
speed up the accreditation process and permit greater freedom to HEIs in starting new
programs. The FTT will be re-established on a more professional basis, as opposed to
representing interest groups, to guide policy making and allocation of funds. The
autonomy of HEIs will be strengthened in terms of financial authority. Development of
HE;[s will focus on better strategic and business planning and assistance for professional
management. Integration of presently fragmented HEls into multi-faculty colleges and
universities will be given high priority. Some eight to ten multi-faculty institutions are
envisaged, combining 40 percent of existing institutions into larger enterprises to achieve
economies of scale and provide greater program opportunities for students.
4.1 9  Financial objectives stress cost-effectiveness through improvements in the norms-
based system of financing in which institutions receive budgets based on the number and
type of students. The norms will be simplified and extended to new budget categories,
thus covering a greater proportion of total budgets. Plans also include greater private
financing of higher education by students through tuition charges for those able to pay.
The importance of private higher education is recognized in terms of its contribution to
expansion of enrollments and competition in market-oriented fields. Obstacles that
impede the development of private higher education, such as overly rigid accreditation.
will be removed.



19
D. CONSTRAINTS ON HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM
4.20  Implementation of the reforms faces formidable challenges and constraints.
Traditionally favored institutions can be expected to resist the changeover to a full norms-
based financing system because they would loose significant amounts of state funding in
the process. Within HEls, teaching staff--mainly represented by professors with seniority
and often representing traditional fields of study--have the majority of votes on
institutional councils. Such interest groups could resist internal reallocation of resources
from fields with declining enrollments towards those with growing demand from
students. Some teaching staff could also be expected to resist efforts to consolidate
classes, decrease student contact hours and increase the number of teaching hours per
week since these measures would result in the need for fewer teaching staff and the
possible loss of jobs. Improved efficiency eventually will facilitate increases in academic
salaries, but in the near term low salaries have led to outside activities on the part of
teaching staff that will make increases in productivity difficult. Moreover, in some cases
assistance will be needed to support the changeover to different teaching methods
required for more independent study. There is virtually no tradition or experience with
strategic planning, either at the national or institutional levels. Greater autonomy for
HEIs must be combined with clear accountability. and training of managers to assume
new functions. Finally, students may resist efforts at greater cost recovery without access
to student loans and information about increased opportunities available to them through
the reforms.



20
5. THE PROJECT
A. WORLD BANK COlJNTRY OBJECTIVES
5.1   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Hungary. approved in 1995,
iclentified six broad aims: (a) to restore macroeconomic stability; (b) to accelerate
employment growth; (c) to facilitate accession to the European Union; (d) to promote
private sector development; (e) to increase the efficiency of public sector investments;
and (f) to develop human resources capacities. The CAS, approved on January 26, 1998,
narrowed the focus of Bank assistance to two primary objectives: (a) to sustain the recent
economic recovery; and (b) to support the country's efforts to join the EU.
5.2   The 1995 CAS concluded that the Bank's assistance to education should include
an investment project designed to restructure higher education and to raise its efficiency,
increase its quality and expand access to it. More specifically, the CAS indicated that a
higher education project should (a) create incentives for increasing enrollments in both
public and private higher education, without increasing budgetary support for the sector;
and (b) enable the sector to produce graduates, knowledge and services needed by a
market economy and a future EU member country. The CAS identified four policy
reforms as critical to meeting these goals: (a) greater financial autonomy for higher
education institutions including authority to impose user charges and to control
conditions of employment and salaries; (b) an improved system of state funding for
higher education. and (c) greater incentives to private institutions to provide student
financial support; and (d) an improved accreditation process to facilitate the
establishment of new institutions. The proposed project is designed to meet these goals.
The 1997 CAS reiterated these goals and stressed in particular the need to make higher
education more accessible to a broader group of society, more responsive to the needs of
a market economy, and more efficient in its use of resources.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND MEANS
5.3   The proposed project supports the Government's comprehensive reform program
for higher education. The over-arching aims of the proposed project are to develop a
system of higher education that (a) responds to the nation's changed and changing social
and economic needs; (b) operates efficiently: and (c) mobilizes greater private finance
andi distributes the costs of education more fairly. More specifically, the objective of the
project is to enroll at least 25 percent of the eligible age population in higher education
programs appropriate for a market economy at substantially reduced public cost per
student. (See Annex 3 for detailed project strategy.)
5.4   Increasing Responsiveness to Social and Economic Needs. The project will
support efforts to raise to at least 25 percent the proportion of the age group 18-22
emolled in higher education institutions. This increase will be attained within the present
resource envelope by improving operating efficiency, by concentrating enrollment
increases in non-degree programs, by modernizing curriculum and teaching methods in



21
existing institutions, and by further encouraging the development of private higher
education.
5.5    The project will support government efforts to increase the responsiveness of
higher education through implementation of six policy reforms. First, greater importance
will be assigned to student choice and institutional performance in allocating public funds
to individual institutions and in setting enrollment targets by field of study and
institution. The reformed system will redesign HEI finance by placing greater weight in
calculating public support on the numbers of students successfully completing their
studies. Second, the process for allocating new admission places to institutions will be
altered in order to place greater stress on the demands of students. Third, selected HEls
will be permitted to reallocate funds among faculties and programs. Fourth, the
flexibility of instructional programs will be increased by placing greater emphasis on
independent student learning, establishing a credit system. rationalizing the requiremelnts
for qualifications, consolidating teaching programs and deferring specialization. Fifth, a
wider range of interests will be included in advisory and governing groups in order to
increase sensitivity to the needs of clients and other stakeholders. Sixth, the HAC and the
FTT will be reformed and strengthened.
5.6   Improving the Operating Efficiency of the System. The project will support
initiatives to strengthen the management of higher education and to make more efficient
use of resources. It will pursue these ends using six instruments. First, the project will
help provide both incentives and means for HEls to control expenses. HEls will be
granted greater financial autonomy, by offering block-grant funding, and providing
authority to keep. carry-over and invest resources. The reform will also eliminate state
funding of budget overruns. Second, the project will help HELs to develop a more
business-like approach to management, including the adoption of strategic institutional
planning, business planning and resource management; creation of infrastructure to
support financial planning, monitoring and control: and development of management
expertise within HEIs. Third, the project will help institutions control capital
expenditures by adopting a unified approach for the allocation of state and project funds.
and by introducing the use of economic criteria -- including least cost analysis -- for the
selection of investment subprojects. Fourth, the project will support efforts to reduce
administrative expenditures per student through consolidation and integration across and
within institutions. Fifth, the project will help to reduce teaching expenditures per
student by increasing the number of students taught per teacher. Finally, the project will
reduce expenditures for student services by introducing professional management of
support services and market tests of the demand for these services.
5.7    Mobilizing Private Finance. The project will support four means to mobilize
private resources and create a more equitable system of higher education finance. First, it
will seek to increase cost recovery from beneficiaries. A universal system of tuition
charges will be introduced and the cooperation of the HEIs will be encouraged by
permitting HEIs to set and keep fees and tuition charges. Second, the project will help
redistribute public subsidies for higher education to encourage study in fields of strategic,
national importance and to ensure greater equity in access to higher education by
supporting those with the greatest financial need. Third, the project will support the
creation of a national student loan program to assist needy students. Fourth, the project



22
will encourage the development of private higher education and mobilization of resources
from other sources, including private donations, alumni giving and commercial income.
5.'3   A "Letter of Sector Development Policy on Higher Education" and a Policy and
In:stitutional Matrix have been submitted to the Bank. The letter of sector policy has
been signed by the Ministers of Education and Finance on behalf of the Hungarian
Government (See Annexes 2 and 3.)
C. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
5.9   The proposed project supports policy reforms both at the national level and within
selected higher education institutions. Consequently, the project is divided broadly into
two types of instruments: nation-wide policy and institutional measures, and investments
at selected higher education institutions (HEIs.) (See Annex 4 for alternatives considered
in the design of the project.) The following project components which are summarized
bel[ow and detailed in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP):
Policy and Institutional Development (US$ 7.4 Million)
Higher Education Institutes (HEI) Investment Program (US$201.5 Million)
Management Information Systems (MIS) (US$19.4 Million)
Management Capacity Development (US$6.9 Million)
StLdent Loan Program (US$2.6 Million)
Project Management and Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (US$5.6 Million)
1. Policy and Institutional Development (US$ 7.4 Million)
5.10  The proposed project supports the introduction or strengthening of key policy and
adrninistrative reforms in five priority areas: (a) allocation of students and finance; (b)
adrninistration of higher education; (c) teaching programs and structures; (d) tuition
charges and student loans; and (e) private higher education. These five areas have been
selected because they influence the performance of the whole sector--they are key points
of leverage for reform. Financial assistance will be provided in the forn of technical
assistance for analytical work, preparation of reforms and monitoring of implementation
progress by outside experts.
5.11  Allocative mechanisms. The basis on which funds are distributed within the
system of higher education strongly affects performance and behavior. Within this
context, two methods of resource allocation are particularly important in Hungary, i.e. the
methods for allocating state-financed admission places to HEIs, and methods for
determining budgets of the HEIs. These are discussed sequentially below.
5.12  Allocation of State-Funded Admissions. Methods for allocating publicly-funded
admission places to HEIs rely on methods carried over from the era of central planning.
In 1996 central authorities allocated new student admissions for each institution in a total



23
of 64 fields. The process has been subject to interference by pressure groups, has
protected historical privileges and has neglected student preferences. A new allocation
process will be developed and implemented under the project employing principles
outlined in Annex 5. The following procedure will be adopted:
(a) The FTT will determine the total number of state financed places annually
according to broad fields of study, taking into account student demand, the
labor market and other considerations.
(b) Potential entrants to higher education will take a national examination and
the results will be used to award grants to students by field. Eventually the
secondary school leaving examination --the baccalaureate which is to be
introduced by 2004 -- might be used for this purpose. To initiate the new
system earlier it may be necessary to implement a national aptitude test.
(c) Students will then apply to as many institutions as they wished; HEIs will
choose whether to give their own entrance examinations; and the
individual HEIs will compete for students.
(d) Central authorities will eventually impose quotas or ceilings on
enrollments only for very expensive fields of study or one for which the
state is the principal employer, and on state-supported places in the
Budapest region.
The new method is expected to lead to competition among HEIs for students and greater
responsiveness to student concerns. Students might also choose to take their grants to
private HEIs. The ultimate objective will be for students to choose available places freely
based on ability and interest. Financial and other incentives will be used to attract
students into fields of study deemed in the public interest.
5.13  Further Development of Norms-based Budgeting. Hungary has taken the first
step towards the introduction of norms-based financing, i.e. financing HEIs based on the
actual number of students enrolled in various programs and average recurrent costs.
Norms-based financing is designed to provide comparable funding for comparable
programs, regardless of location. IThis change of financing mechanism has already begun
to alter the incentive structure for HEI administrations. A premium is placed on
attracting new students and on bringing unit recurrent costs into line with the national
averages on which the norms are based. However, the present financing formula is
overly complex, lacks transparency, covers only a relatively small proportion of total
costs, and finances colleges and universities differently for the same degrees.
5.14  Under the project the normative financing mechanism will be refined and
improved. A revised model will be introduced beginning in 1998. The new model will
reduce complexity by (a) collapsing the number of categories financed from 13 to 7 then
ultimately to 5 categories; (b) expanding the teaching normative category to include
overheads; and (c) eliminating the disparities for the same degrees between college and
university levels. Transitional support will be provided for those institutions most
adversely affected by funding reallocations. To achieve greater efficiency the basis for



24
determining teaching norms will be progressively raised from an average of 8.7 students
per teacher as at present to 10.5 within two years, 12 within four years of project
implementation, and 13 by the end of the project. Proposals have been prepared for the
revised allocation mechanisms. Promulgation of a Government decree merging the
maintenance with teaching allocation category in normative financing for 1998 and
thereafter and reduction in the number of normative categories to no more than 7 is a
condition of effectiveness of the project.
5.15  Institutional Development and Reform. Hungary has gone a considerable distance
to decentralize its system of higher edncation. Functions that were perforned previously
by the central Ministry of Education are now the responsibility of professional
intermediary bodies, such as the FTT, HAC and the Higher Education Development Fund
(FE,FA). Considerable authority has been given to HEIs. including academic autonomy.
However, HEIs still lack administrative authority to manage their own financial affairs.
The proposed project will provide suppoIt to strengthen the functioning of the
decentralized institutions.
5.16  Restructuring Intermediary Institutions. Intermediary institutions have been
reconstituted in accordance with the 1996 Law. A budget for adequate professional
staf-fing at FTT, HAC, FEFA, and the National Credit Council (NCC) will be provided by
the Government in the 1998 budget to ensure that these important policy and
implementation agencies have to capability to conduct the necessary background and
policy analyses for decisions required. Because of the relative inexperience with
intermediary bodies, the substantial number of initial tasks assigned to these agencies,
and the backlog of reviews and decisions awaiting action, the project will support
temporary augmentation of their staffs through technical assistance. In the case of the
FTT, technical assistance will focus on elaboration of the overall strategy for higher
education and integration and refinement of in the normative financing formula. student
admissions allocation, a mid-range development plan. new program proposal reviews,
and studies on curricular and degree reforms. Assistance for the HAC will concentrate on
designing and implementing methods of new program reviews that will result in ways to
review programs which promote broader degree reforms rather than reinforce an overly
specialized degree structure. In the case of FEFA. assistance will be directed at assisting
their role in the review and selection of capital investment projects. Significant technical
assistance for the NCC will help develop and implement a credit and transfer system for
HEIs. Establishment of the NCC according to the Higher Education Act is a condition of
effectiveness of the project.
5.17  Greater financial authority for HEIs. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has agreed
to grant three higher education federations (Debrecen, Kecskemet and Szeged) additional
financial authority. Specifically, these three "experimental" HEIs will be allowed to
transfer funds freely between budget categories, be exempted from budget revisions
during the year and be permitted to carry over year end surpluses and to use these funds
immediately. These HEIs will be required to account formally for the use of the funds and
to submit annual audits of the accounts. An agreement has been signed by the three
HEls, the MOE and the MOF. The Borrower also agreed that it will refrain from deficit
financing of HEls and will adopt a policy requiring HEls to operate from a balanced
budget.



25
5.18   Reforms in Teaching Programs, Processes and Structures. The higher education
system will be re-engineered to emphasize skills in acquiring and applying knowledge,
and to reduce the emphasis it now places on the mastery of fact, formula and procedure.
More concretely, students will be required to carry out more independent studies in which
resourcefulness, judgment and synthesis are demanded. At the same time, instructional
programs and teaching materials will be introduced that reduce the role of the instructor
in selecting and integrating materials. These changes will place greater responsibilitv on
students for their own learning. This will entail a substantial reduction in the number of
class contact hours required of students. It will also require the further development of
library capacity, laboratories, computer facilities and network connections. and dormitory
space with study areas.
5.19  The 1996 Law on Higher Education mandated the creation of an academic credit
system and the establishment of a NCC and National Credit Office (NCO). Introduction
of a credit system is intended to introduce greater flexibility in the system, permitting
students to transfer from one program of study or institution to another or between levels
of education. Introduction of a credit and transfer system will permeate every HEI and
faculty. Consequently, the design and implementation of the credit system represents an
excellent vehicle for general curriculum reform that focuses on defining common core
modules as a basis for consolidations across related disciplines, a greater number of
elective courses, and less restrictive qualifications requirements. The overall framework
of the credit and transfer system will be compatible with the European Credit Transfer
System (ECTS). Institutional and national models will be developed and policies
implemented for defining numbers of credits for each degree level, full-time study and
linking the credit system to professional qualifications requirements.
5.20   The proposed project includes financial assistance for efforts at curricula reforms
in several ways: (a) technical assistance to the Hungarian Accreditation Committee to
prepare guidelines to broaden the excessively narrow and specialized curricula and
degrees; (b) technical assistance to the NCO and NCC in introduction of the credit
system; (c) assistance to integrating institutions for provision of additional capacities to
permit more independent study, such as information technology, libraries and dormitory
space: and (d) grants to institutions for academic innovations and consolidation plans
(described below).
5.21   Equitable Higher Education Finance. Under the reform program the basis for
allocating state subsidies to higher education will shift from merit to financial need. This
reform will reduce the number of able students who are precluded from participating in
higher education institutions because of the cost of enrolling without state sponsorship.
Benefiting institutions will be allowed to distribute state funding among students through
scholarships. In addition, these institutions will be required to adopt a plan for increasing
income from tuition and other fees, leading by the year 2004 to recovery from students of
at least 20 percent of the cost of instruction. The State will be required to devise a
student financial aid program that ensures that qualified students are not excluded from
the opportunity for study because their families do not have sufficient savings or income
to meet the private costs of education, and that provides incentives to students to study in
areas of strategic, national interest. The financial aid program will include a student loan
program that will provide guarantees to private banks for lending to students. A



26
condition for effectiveness of the project is submission of an acceptable proposal and
terms of reference for a study of procedures for targeting student support subsidies on
stuldents in financial need.
5.22   Incentives for Private Higher Education. The project will support development
and implementation of a strategy to enhance the role of private institutions in higher
education. Policies will be pursued in three areas. First, the State will ensure that public
higher education does not crowd out private education. This will involve ensuring that
the accreditation process is transparent, timely and fair for private institutions; increasing
tuition fees in the public sector as soon as the student loan program is in place; and
establishing a division of labor between public and private sectors, such as limiting
growth of the public sector in fields that can attract sufficient private financing; the public
sector will stress quality and enrollments in fields in which private rates of return are not
high and cannot be handled well by private institutions, but are nonetheless important.
Second, the State will deregulate private higher education and remove many controls over
private institutions, such as governance, selection of rectors, who decides the curriculum,
etc. Third, the State will move from the present policy of nearly parallel public funding
of public and private sectors to a policy of ensuring that private education is increasingly
privately financed, by means of reducing public subsidies as soon as possible, while at
the same time ensuring access to other sources of income, such as guaranteed loans for
students in private higher education and passage of a non-profit law to boost income from
private contributions. The Government has prepared a strategy satisfactory to the Bank
for development of private higher education (Annex 6).
2. Higher Education Institutions Investment Program (US$ 201.5 Million)
5.23 The cornerstone of the Government's reform program to reduce costs and improve
quality of higher education is the integration of single-purpose institutions into multi-
facult> colleges and universities. Consolidation will help to create true universities in
which a broad range of disciplines will be taught. This will provided an environment in
which interdisciplinary study and research can flourish, and will promote the broadening
of students' education and experience through greater informal interaction among
students and faculty in other disciplines. In addition, combining foundation courses for
related programs of study will force students to begin to develop skills in adapting
knowledge and specific skills for use in a focused area of study.
5.24   Most of the project funds will be devoted to addressing critical one-time needs for
reforming institutions. The bulk of the project resources will be used to support capital
construction and renovation so that integrating institutions can create needed library,
informatics and central administrative facilities, as well as lecture halls and larger
classrooms made necessary by the restructuring of the curriculum. The project will
finance the costs of renovating and expanding libraries, enlarging classrooms, developing
computer systems for administrative purposes, and constructing faculty offices, common
services facilities, dormitories, and the like. Institutions that agree to integrate into multi-
faculty universities or colleges will be eligible to compete for these capital investment
funds. The project will finance design services, civil works, the purchase of furniture and



27
equipment, and updating of the information and network technologies for newly
integrated services and new facilities. Institutions will also be required to adopt the
program of policy reforms for higher education, including the introduction of a credit
system, reduction in compulsory lecture hours, imposition of tuition fees. and
rationalization of student financial aid.
5.25   So far, some 13 institutions have virtually completed plans to merge into three
"federations" to be followed in two years by transition into a total of three multi-faculty
institutions. Each of the three "federations" (Debrecen, Kecskemet and Szeged) has
prepared a medium-term institution development plan (IDP) based on a self-analysis of
strengths. weaknesses, opportunities and threats. The IDPs set priorities for enrollment
expansioni and quality improvement, and include plans for administrative restructuring
and academic consolidation (Annex 7). Approximately 20-25 additional institutions are
expected to consolidate into a total of about six more integrated institutions under the
project. Based on IDPs prepared in three locations. each integrated institutionl will
require an average of about US$22 million in capital investments.
5.26   Institutional integration is a means to achieve quantum improvements in
efficiency and is not an end in itself. The scope for efficiency gains (combinations of
cost reductions and quality improvements) throug1h internal academic rationalization in
some non-integrating institutions may be similar. per dollar invested, to thle overall
efficiency impact achieved thlrough institutional integration. For this reason, up to US$
30 million of the funds allocated for the Higher Education Institutions Investment
Program may be used to support capital investments required to implement the IDPs of
non-integrating institutions. These IDPs (and their constituent capital investment projects
[CIPs]) will be evaluated against the same criteria and under the same procedures as for
integrating institutions. They will have to be demonstrated to be superior in overall
efficiency impact per dollar invested compared with the CIPs for integrating institutions
which they will displace from the program. No CIP for a non-integrating institution can
exceed US$ 10 million equivalent.
5.27   Participating HEIs will also be provided assistance in establishing planning and
management systems commonly used in Western universities. The purpose of these
systems will be to enable the institution to achieve its goals more effectivelv and
efficiently. A strategic planning exercise will be adopted to define the mission and
objectives of the institution, and to analyze its strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and
threats. A formal institutional development plan (IDP) based on the strategic planning
exercise will be published every three to five years. An academic plan will be derived
from the strategic plan outlining plans for phasing out or initiating programs and courses.
The academic plan will be prepared as part of the annual budget process. A systems plan
will be developed which defines management. financial and information systems needed
to accomplish the goals articulated in the strategic plan. The systems plan will be
prepared on a three-year rolling plan basis and will be updated annually. A business plan
will be prepared annually which includes financial and budgetary projections, an overall
financial plan (income by source, expenditures by category/function) and an operating
budget. The business plan will also be created on a three-year rolling plan basis: actuals
will be compared quarterly with projections. Finally a capital investment plan will be
prepared which includes a five year master plan. a long-range rolling capital investment



28
program (reviewed annually) and an innual capital development plan which outlines
detailed plans and cost estimates for highest priority projects ready for finding.
5.28  Higher student-teacher ratios will be achieved by integrating HEIs (thereby
exploiting scale economies in instruction) and by introducing funding norms that penalize
over-staffing. These measures will lead to (a) a reduction in the number of class contact
hours. (b) a consolidation of courses to achieve larger average class sizes, and (c) an
enforcement of minimum teaching loads by faculty. IDPs will define specific targets in
each of these areas.
5.29  The Integration and FEFA Decrees have been revised. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that it will select, in consultation with the Bank. higher
education associations for investments under the project which have (i) been approved
formally by Government as associations. (ii) prepared comprehensive institution
development plans based on an analysis of strengths. weaknesses, opportunities and risks
for the institution. (iii) prepared comprehensive capital investment plans based on
analysis of use factors of existing premises and (iv) justify proposed investments in terms
of efficiency gains.
3. Management Information Systems (US$19.4 Million)
5.30 The proposed project will support the development of new management
information structures, procedures and systems in the integrating HEIs (see Annex 8).
The project will finance: (a) expert services for the development of strategy and process
redesign. (b) software development or purchase and adaptation; (c) upgrading of
information technology networks; and (d) training support. Priority will be given to
budgeting. accounting and financial control systems. Steps in the development of a
financial system will include a detailed analysis of requirements, software adaptation.
testing and training. Systems development will be coordinated across HEIs through the
Committee of the Informatics Association for Hungarian Higher Education to avoid
duplication of effort and to facilitate integration. The proposed component will increase
the effectiveness and efficiency of management and control systems. Based on detailed
estimates for one integrating HEI, the costs for introduction of new financial systems and
related information technology will require approximately US$ 1.8 million per HEI, and
an estimated nine HEIs will participate in the project funding.
4. Management Capacity Development (US$6.9 Million)
5.3 IStrengthening management skills is one of the most powerful instruments for
achieving change and greater efficiency. The project will support increased management
capacity in the areas of planning, financial management. information systems, academic
reform (in such areas as the development of a credit and transfer system), and policy
analysis (Annex 9). The project will finance training for existing practitioners and newly
recruited staff responsible for developing the documents and systems necessary to
implement the reform programs. particularly in integrating institutions as well as national
reviewing bodies such as the FTT and MOE. Highest priority will be given to audiences
and programs focused on specific policies and products associated with institutional



29
integration (such as preparation and refinement of IDPs). Training programs will also be
developed for skills in areas such as financial management and business process re-
engineering. Trainers will be drawn from experienced international experts and
Hungarians. with in-country trainers gradually assuming full responsibility for continuing
training. Under the project about 750 university professors and administrators as well as
central MOE and other national staff will receive training. In addition to product-
specific training for project requirements and continuing management training, the
project will finance twinning arrangements. fellowships and study tours with leading
international universities and national or state bodies. Through these programs, HEIs will
send or exchange administrative staff and will be encouraged to draw upon models of
operation that they investigate. A provision of US$4.6 Million has been made for these
types of arrangements.
5. Guaranteed Student Loan Program (US$2.6 Million)
5.32  The proposed project will finance the development of a national guaranteed
student loan program. A loan program based on a state guarantee of repayment is needed
in order to enable households to finance a greater share of the cost of higher education
(see paragraphs 3.31 - 3.34).
5.33  During preparation of the proposed project two of the largest commercial banks
expressed an interest in making student loans. However, they recognize the need to
secure these loans. A direct guarantee by government has been rejected by both the
banking industry and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The banking industry prefers
instead to have a legally autonomous, semi-private agency provide a guarantee of
repayment. The banks believe that such an institution will provide the most credible
assurance of the ultimate recovery of such loans. The MOF has also rejected the
suggestion that the government establish a lending institution for student loans on the
ground that government is poorly positioned to manage the allocation of consumer credit
or to pursue the routine recovery of loans.
5.34  Except in the cases of rapidly expanding fields -- such as translation services.
accounting and business management -- the salaries currently being offered to new
graduates will not allow them to service a conventional. level payment loan. The
inability to service an education loan is due primarily to the very high inflation premiums
imbedded in nominal interest rates. Such high rates will prevent most students from
borrowing. These findings suggest the need for innovative financial products that allow
frequent adjustments in payments to reflect actual inflation rates or permit either
graduated or income-contingent payment on the loan. An income contingent repayment
scheme administered under the social insurance program or income tax is also under
discussion.
5.35  Furtlhe-r work is needed in several areas before a student loan scheme can be
launched. First. a legal entity must be established to administer the guarantee
mechanism. This entity must have the authority to collect debts that originating bank has
not succeeded in recovering. The primary guarantee might be financed from a fee
imposed at the time a loan is originated. Second, agreements need to be reached on who
should have access to guaranteed student loans. Third. responsibility for screening



30
students for eligibility and capacity to repay needs to be assigned. Most student loan
guarantee programs rely on the educational institution to certify the student's eligibility
and then the guarantor provides the lender with the assurance that it has access to the
guarantee. Fourth, the borrower's obligation to repay the loan needs to be developed as
fully as possible through an application process that facilitates the tracing of borrowers
who abscond and instructs borrowers in the responsible use of consumer credit and in the
legal measures that lenders may employ to secure payment. Fifth, the access of the
lender and the guarantor to enforcement instruments needs to be agreed. These
instruments include the authority to seize personal and real property, attach wages and
salaries, claim social insurance benefits at the source, or affect adversely access to other
forms of credit. The possibility of using either the tax withholding or social insurance
contributions systems to effect payment should also be considered. Sixth, the allowable
uses of the funds and the mechanism(s) for disbursing the loan need to be defined.
5.36   The creation of a student loan progyram for Hungary will require considerable
design effort as well as significant consultation with commercial banks. The proposed
Higher Education Reform Project will provide financing for the establishment of a
student loan task force comprised of representatives of the relevant participants, as well
as technical assistance to design such a program and to establish the public institutions
required to administer the guarantee and/or collections (Annex 10). The terms of
reference for this technical assistance have been agreed upon with the Bank.
Establishment of the Task Force to oversee the design of the student loan guarantee
program under agreed terms of reference will be a condition for effectiveness of the
project.
6. Project Management and Project Preparation Facility (US$5.6 Million)
5.37  A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$2.8 million is included in the project
to finance the final architectural designs and engineering for the capital investments of
the initial three HEIs in Phase I of the Project and to staff the Project Management Unit
(PMU) until the Loan becomes effective. The project includes financing throughout the
project years for the operation of the PMU.
5.38   Annex 11 summarizes the technical assistance included in the project by category.



31
6. IMPLEMENTATION
6.1   Appropriate arrangements have been devised to implement the proposed project.
The design takes into account lessons from previous experience (Section A); the project
follows a sector investment approach to support reform implementation (Section B);
effective plans exist for organization and staffing of the executing agencies (Section C);
procedures and criteria have been defined for selection of investment projects (Section
D); and preparation includes realistic scheduling and phasing of activities (Section E) and
monitoring and evaluation (Section F). Each is discussed in sequence below.
A. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN
6.2   The proposed project draws on lessons from implementation of an earlier project.
The Hungary Human Resources Project (LN 331 3-HU), effective since 1991, has
provided substantial funding (US$67 million) to higher education. This funding. together
with an equivalent amount from the Hungarian Government, has been allocated by the
FEFA through three competitive rounds at roughly yearly intervals. The objectives of
these discretionary investment funds were to develop new educational programs
consistent with the needs of the evolving market economy; to support integration of
institutions: and to increase cooperation among universities and research institutions, and
between teaching and research.
6.3   Several lessons can be drawn from this project. A large number of new
educational programs has been launched. including the re-introduction of Ph.D. programs
in universities. Procurement of equipment has been carried out, by and large. effectively.
Student enrollment has increased. Efficient methods designed to modernize the
curriculum. change teaching methods and introduce credit systems have been evident in a
number of institutions. (This is attributable as well to the TEMPUS program and other
bilateral support which have facilitated exchange between western and Hungarian
institutions.) There has been some progress in the integration of small specialized
teaching and research institutions, but advances have been slower than expected.
6.4   On the negative side, it should be acknowledged that many of the specific
investments did not achieve their full economic potential because of the constraints
imposed by an unreformed system of higher education. In addition, despite well-crafted
objectives and criteria, and a basically sound evaluation system, the decision-making
apparatus has not operated without outside influences; the temptation to continue to
distribute funds uniformly across institutions has often prevailed thereby yield small
amounts of funds to individual institutions.
6.5   Two conclusions can be drawn from these experiences. First, without systemic
reform additional investment funding is not likely to yield the full benefits to society and
the economy that the country requires and expects from higher education. Second, efforts
by the World Bank to monitor the details of procurement, either centrally or at the level
of the institution, are no longer justified. Therefore, the proposed project will: (a) support
and monitor the entire sectoral reform program (including the achievement of important
goals at the HEt level); (b) require that the rules governing all investments for the sector
be consistent with those of the project: and (c) concentrate on the application of agreed



32
procedures and criteria in the selection of investment subprojects. The proposed project
takes these lessons into account in the design of procedures to allocate funding.
61.6   Difficulties experienced during the ongoing implementation of the Health
Services Development Project (Ln 3597-HU) and the Pensions Administration and
Health Insurance Project (Ln 3596-HU), both approved in 1993, reconfirm in Hungary
the vital importance, especially when the ultimate productivity of the financed
investments presupposed a reforned policy environment, of:
* achieving mature entry conditions for the project -- i.e., developing detailed
understanding of needed policy changes and agreeing during preparation on a
concrete timetable for their implementation. with the indispensable legislative
enabling conditions being enacted prior to Board presentation,
* fixing realistic project objectives in concrete operational terms;
* specifying quantifiable, monitorable targets or benchmarks along the road to
achievement of those objectives so as to be able periodically to assess progress;
3 developing -- and testing repeatedly -- broad ownership by stakeholders of the
reform strategy and the project's contribution to its fulfillment, through a
participatory preparation process and major effort at ongoing public
dissemination;
* establishing unambiguous "exit points" at which, if progress falls significantly
short of agreed expectations, both the Bank and Borrower agree in advance to
restructure or abort the project; and
- requiring that implementation capacity and agencies be fully operational prior
to Board presentation.
Each of these lessons is fully taken into account in the design of the proposed project.
B. APPROACH
6.7   An appropriate lending instrument has been selected for the proposed project. It
will be implemented as a sector investment project (SECIL). This type of lending
instrument stresses, first, agreement and continuous dialogue with the borrower on the
policy and institutional framework. and on the objectives and content of the reform
program. Second, the sector investment approach involves delegation to intermediary
institutions of the selection of specific investment projects., or "subprojects." Under this
Project, subprojects are capital investment plans by HEIs. Apart from subprojects at
three selected HEIs, no specific subproject investments have been pre-identified, and no
quotas have been fixed by institution or type of investment. Instead. emphasis has been



placed on the organizational framework, procedures and criteria for selection of specific
investments.
6.8   There are two reasons for this approach (See Annex 4). First, the project seeks to
maximize its impact on the functions of the newly-restructured intermediary institutions
and the participating HEIs. An explicit objective of the project is to assist in capacity
building by transferring project procedures and criteria to the normal functions of these
institutions. Second, the project -- in contrast with previous experience in the command
economy -- takes a "bottom-up" approach, in which the HEIs can propose innovations in
programns they offer. This approach relies on the initiatives of the main providers of
higher education and has proved instrumental in other contexts in stimulating thinking,
development of alternative approaches and reform on a wide scale. Under this approach
Bank involvement will focus on implementation of policy and institutional reforms. and
the procedures and criteria for selection of investments. not on procurement or physical
implementation.
C. ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.9   The Government has devised a satisfactory organizational plan and adequate
staffing plan for implementing the overall reform program. The Project will be
implemented by the Ministry of Culture and Education (MOE) through a Project
Management Unit (PMU), the Higher Education Development Program (FEFA), and the
participating universities. The PMU will monitor policy and institutional changes, and
will implement the system development and management development components,
organize technical assistance, and liaise with the Bank. FEFA will be responsible for
reviewing and making recommendations on capital investment (subproject) proposals by
integrating HEIs. MOE would enter into a formal grant financing agreement with
successful HEIs. The HEIs will contract directly for goods and services, including civil
works. The FEFA secretariat will supervise the contracts. The HEIs, thus, will prepare
plans for institution and capital development, implement approved plans and enter into
contracts with suppliers and contractors. Under the project, six staff will be appointed to
the PMU. Each HEI will establish a Development Office for managing project
implementation at the site. Project implementation responsibilities are described further
in Annexes II and 12 and in the Project Implementation Plan.
6.10  The Government (a) has confirmed that the Deputy State Secretary for Higher
Education will be Project Director; (b) will appoint the FEFA Executive Director in
consultation with the Bank; will establish the PMU with a Director acceptable to the
Bank; and (d) will establish and staff FEFA's Ad Hoc Committee with terms of
reference and members acceptable to the Bank.
6.11  The Government has agreed that it will (a) maintain the FTT, FEFA secretariat
and PMU with funds, facilities. functions, authority and sufficient qualified staff
satisfactory to the Bank: (b) consult with the Bank about the appointment of the
Executive Director of FEFA and maintain a Director of the PMU acceptable to the Bank;
and (c) carry out a Project Implementation Plan agreed with the Bank in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.



34
D. PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA FOR INVESTMENT SELECTION
6.12   Procedures appropriate for implementation have been designed and tested. These
procedures assign responsibility for specific subproject selection to intermediary
institutions, mainly FEFA. HEIs that wish to integrate will prepare institutional
development plans (IDPs) setting out strategic and medium-term objectives and
prograrns, obtain their approval from institutional senates, and apply to the FTT for
approval. Once overall framework plans are approved by FTT. the HELs will prepare
specific CIPs for consideration by FEFA. FEFA will select specific investment
subprojects for financing. The HEIs will contract for the goods and services called for in
the investment plans according to Hungarian and Bank procedures.
6.13   Four sets of criteria will be used in the project selection process, including:
eligibility criteria, guidelines for the content of applications, evaluation criteria, and
approval criteria. Except for up to US$30 million available for academic consolidation
purposes at non-integrating institutions, only institutions that have accomplished serious
steps towards integration will be eligible to receive capital investment funds under the
project. Such pre-requisites will include: (a) having obtained Government approval to be
considered as a "federation" of institutions under the provisions of the 1996 Law on
Higher Education; (b) development of a comprehensive institutional plan for integration
based on an analysis of strengths. weaknesses, opportunities and threats for the
institution; (c) preparation of CIPs based on analysis of use factors of existing premises;
and (d) provision ofjustification of investments in civil works in terms of efficiency
gains. IDPs and CIPs will be evaluated in terms of relevance to priority objectives,
effectiveness of design, feasibility of implementation and efficiency in the use of
resources. There are no pre-set quotas for distribution of funds among HEIs. However.
to ensure reasonable distribution of funds. no integrating HEI will be allowed to claim
more than US$30 million for capital investments. Details of the procedures and criteria
appear in the Project Implementation Plan and in Annex 12.
The Government has provided assurances that it will:
(a) employ procedures acceptable to the Bank for selection and approval of
investments during the project period;
(a) follow criteria acceptable to the Bank for selection and approval of capital
investments during the project period, including selection of HEIs that have:
A.    been approved formally by Government as associations.
B.    prepared comprehensive IDPs based on an analysis of strengths,
weaknesses, opportuLnities and risks for the institLtioln.
C.    prepared comprehensive CIPs based on analysis of use factors of
existing premises;
D.    obtained the approval of the IDP and CIP from  the respective
institutional councils. and



35
(c) consult with the Bank before final decisions about proposed IDPs,CIPs and
grant agreements.
A condition of disbursement on the civil works under the project is that such investments
were made in accordance with procedures, criteria. and on terms and conditions agreed
with the Bank.
6.14   The proposed project will create a unified structure, procedures and criteria for the
selection of investment projects. A common set of criteria will be adopted for all
government development expenditures in higher education based on cost-effectiveness.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it will apply the same
procedures and criteria as under the proposed project for allocation of its owin capital and
development funds.
E. SCHEDULE AND PHASING
6.15 A detailed, feasible implementation schedule has been prepared for the proposed
reform program. The project has been phased to achieve its objectives. The project will
be implemented in three phases of approximately two years each, i.e. Phase I comprises
contracts for capital investments signed from 1998 through 1999; Phase II comprises
contracts signed from 2000 to 2001; and Phase III comprises contracts signed in 2002 and
beyond. The content of each phase will be the same (i.e. each phase will finance the
same kinds of things), but will involve possibly different HEIs and different subprojects
by the same HEIs. It is expected that three IDPs will be approved in 1998; approximately
three additional IDPs in 1999 and a final three IDPs in 2000. Implementation of capital
investments will involve a series of contracts for specific works over a period of
approximately 2-3 years for each IDP. Annex 14 shows the overall implementation
schedule and the following Table shows roughly the general sequencing of
implementation:
Table 6.1: Implementation Schedule
Phase I             Phase 2              Phase 3
Year    1998       1999      2000      2001      2002  |2_00'
Phase  1: 3  HEIs*  _________   =         ________   _    _             K00X
Phase 2:3  HEIs*    _    _  _ .  :  ,  -                                _______
Phase 3: 3 HEls*     _777__   __ _77 _                              _7
* HEI associations or federations of integrating institutions
6.16   The purpose of phasing, which was introduced at the request of the Finance
Ministry, is to provide two distinct check points for taking stock and evaluating the
overall progress of the reforms. The check points will help to ensure that reform
measures are on track and that investments are achieving savings in public funds as
intended. Contracts already approved and in process will not be stopped, but no new
contracts will be allowed unless satisfactory progress has been certified.
6.17   Specific triggers for the second and third phases pertain to (a) the policy and
institutional framework; and (b) investments at participating HEIs.



36
6.18   Conditions for Phasing (See Annex 15)
The conditions for phases 2 and 3 of the project have been specified corresponding to the
main strategic points of reform as outlined in Sector Policy Development section of the
project (paras.). These include:
(a) introduction of new student enrollment allocation model featuring student
choice (para. 5.12);
(b) further improvements in the normative financing model, including reduction
in the number of categories; merger of the maintenance and teaching
normatives and progressive increases in the student:teacher ratios from 8.7:1
to 12.1 (para. 5.14);
(c) establishment of the national academic credit system (para.5. 16);
(d) granting of greater financial authority to participating HEIs (para. 5.17);
(e) greater cost recovery from students through tuition and instructional fees.
progressively increased from about 5-7 percent at present to 20 percent of
actual teaching costs by the end of the project (para. 5.21);
(f) concentration of at least 75 percent of student support subsidies on students in
financial need according to means tests (para. 5.21); and
(g) introduction of a guaranteed student loan system (para. 5.34-5.35)
Annex 15 presents the specific conditions in these seven strategic areas for the start of the
project, second phase, third phase and the targets for the conclusion of the project after
year six.
6.19  Investments in Participating HEIs. Another instrument for ensuring achievement
of project objectives at the level of HEIs will be the reforms specified in the grant
agreements signed between the MOE and the HEIs. These will specify targets and
reforms sought on a case by case basis. Satisfactory progress in implementing these
reforms will be a condition for subsequent phases of the project. These criteria include:
Demonstrated progress in implementation of IDPs and systems reforms
including:
(a) restructured administrative and management practices in terms of.
*    mechanisms for internal reallocation of normative finance
to programs in demand.
*    integrated administrative organization.
*    integrated financial management and control procedures
*    adoption and use of business planning processes.
(b) more tlexible teaching programs in terms of.
*    adoption of credit system
*    development and introduction of modular curricula
(c) achievement of specific efficiencies including reduced recurrent cost
per student and increased number of students per teacher in terms of:



37
*  reduced contact hours/student
*  enforcement of minimum teaching requirements
*  increased average class size
*  merged departments;
greater proportion of non-diploma enrollments as share of
total.
(d) greater private resource mobilization in terms of:
* increased user charges through tuition fees
* increased generation of outside income
A condition for Bank approval for signature of civil works contracts after 6/30/99 and
after 6/30/01 is performance satisfactory to the Bank in (a) meeting the targets of Annex
15, and (b) achieving the reform goals specified in grant agreements between MOE and
the HEIs.
F. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.20 An International Advisory Panel of five persons will be established to assist in
evaluating implementation of reforms. The function of the Panel will be to review
progress in implementing the various reforms semi-annually, raising policy issues with
the Government, intermediary organizations and the Bank. The Panel will also assess the
progress of institutional development and reforms at HEIs. During negotiations the
Government provided assurances that it will maintain throughout the life of the project an
International Advisory Panel with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Establishment of the Panel with terms of reference and experts acceptable to the Bank is a
condition of effectiveness for the project.
6.21   A detailed project monitoring matrix has been prepared which sets out in a logical
framework the aspects of the project that will be monitored (Annex 16.) Progress under
the various reform measures and investment components will be assessed periodically
through the following means: (a) quarterly progress reports by the PMU; (b) semi-annual
Bank supervision missions, (c) annual applications for capital assistance by integrating
HEIs. at which point progress in the previous year will be checked against the key
indicators (para. 6.), and (d) major reviews of project performance towards the end of
each two year phase. as a basis for satisfying the condition of disbursement on the next
phase.
6.22  The Government has agreed to report on a semester basis on the achievement of
Key Performance Indicators defined for project outcomes and for project development
objectives, as defined in Annex 16. Progress reports will include information on number
and value of contracts signed by category. Semester progress reports will be submitted to
the Bank within one month after the completion of each semester, and will include a
concise summary of progress and issues under each subcomponent, as well as progress on
procurement. loan disbursements. and national counterpart expenditures. The first
semester progress report will be due to the Bank on July 31. 1998.



38
6.23  Bank Supervision will require, on average, about 36 staff-weeks of Bank's
supervision per year during the first two years of implementation. In the following years
the supervision will decrease to about 24 staff-weeks. The Bank will supervise and
monitor:
(a) the implementation of agreed policy and insititutional measures;
(b) the application of procedures and selection criteria for investment projects;
(c) the implementation of IDPs at participating HEIs;
(d) the overall progress of implementation;
(e) the impact of the investment on reforms on the system of higher education.
Annex 17 presents the proposed Bank supervision plan.
G. STATUS OF PREPARATION
6.24  Major background studies were prepared, addressing private rates of return to
higher education, description of the system. issues analysis, national survey on household
willingness to pay for higher education, and analyses of overall student application and
acceptance trends. An economic analysis of HEI budgeting was also carried out. The
following things were produced at the policy level: (a) a policy document governing
development of higher education over the medium term, now presented formally as the
Letter of Sector Development Policy (Annex 2); (b) principles outlining development of
private higher education; (c) new decrees were debated and adopted covering
responsibilities of the three major intermediary buffer organizations. together with a
decree defining the goals and procedures for institutional integration; (d) the Government
adopted a new normative financing plan for higher education. Similarly. a new model of
student enrollment allocations was prepared; (e) an agreement easing financial
rest:rictions was agreed between the central government and three pilot institutions; (f a
framnework for a new credit system was published; and g) higher education funding
agencies were merged to streamline activities.
6.25  The following tasks have been carried out at the level of HEIs: Comprehensive
IDPs and CIPs have been prepared by staff at three HEIs. Civil works space standards
were developed at each site, as were strategic requirements in the institutional
development plans. A model business plan was developed. MIS management training
program was developed by MOE officials. Implementation structures and procedures
have been worked out. A PPF has been signed.
H. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMVIMITMENT
6.26  The extensive preparation work, outlined above, indicates the level of Borrower
commitment to the proposed project. More generally, recent legislation mandates various
reforms including: HEI autonomy, restructuring of the intermediary organizations.
creation of short-cycle higher education, establishment of the credit system. introduction
of norms-based financing, introduction of student tuition fees, creation of multi-faculty
institutions tlhrough integration and imposition of sanctions on institutions exceeding



39
their budgets. At the policy level the Ministry of Education has earmarked all available
development funds for integration purposes for implementation through FEFA. Further,
the Ministry of Education is empowered and prepared to appoint crisis managers for
institutions that cannot manage the process of hard budget constraints: this sanction is
reinforced under a recent law establishing the government's Treasury System. At the
level of HEIs, interest in integration is evident from the 17 applications received for
FEFA integration funds in 1996 representing some 50 individual institutions. Many HEIs
have begun serious planning for integration, including preparation of three
comprehensive IDPs by staff of the HEI groups. Most institutions have begun collecting
tuition fees and have plans to generate more self-financing.



40
7. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND
PROCUREMENT
A. PROJECT COSTS
7.1    Since the project will be implemented as a sector investment project (para. 6.6),
the number and type of subprojects to be financed is not known in advance and, therefore,
cannot be costed in detail. Consequently, cost estimates have been prepared in three
parts:
*      .subprojects" or CIPs for three selected HEIs, for which
detailed costs were appraised,
about six future 'stubprojects " (or CIPs) where costs were
budgeted on the basis of an average cost of the three appraised
CIPs mentioned above; and
*      specific investment expenditures for goods and services.
7.2    Total project costs are estimated at US$250 million, with base costs estimated at
US$243 million. Total costs for the subprojects (US$202 million) do not include
contingencies. Total costs for other components (US$48 million) include both physical
and price contingencies. Combined physical and price contingencies on investments
costs for components referenced under (iii) above are estimated at US$6.6 million, or
about 14 percent of the respective base costs. Price contingencies are based on most
recent projections of local inflation and devaluation for Hungary.7 Physical contingencies
are estimated at 10 percent for goods and 5 percent for services.
7.3    Basis of Cost Estimates. (a) Price estimates for the three appraised CIPs are based
on current prices for construction, equipment and furniture, and for architectural designs
and engineering. The three CIPs included construction price estimates per square meter
based on preliminary architectural designs; (b) cost estimates for financing subsequent
CIF's, which are to be prepared and selected according to agreed criteria (Annex 12). are
based on an average cost of the appraised CIPs. It is expected that a total of about nine
CIP's will be approved for financing, averaging about US$22 million each. (c) rates for
technical assistance are based on curTent rates for international consultants and for
national consultants in Hungary according to area of expertise: prices for computers and
other goods are based on international market prices based on recent similar tenders; (d)
recurrent costs are based on current local government salaries and local costs for
maintenance and supplies.
7 Local and international inflation rates are based on Bank estimates as of March 1997. Local annual
average inflation rate estimates respectively for the Bank FY98/99. 98/99, 99/00, 00/01, 01/02. 02/03. and
03/041 are 15.9%, 12.8%, 9.8%, 6.8%, 4.9% and 3.4%. International inflation rates respectively for these
years are 2.2%, 2.6%, 2.9%, 2.9%o, 2.8% and 2.7%. Average exchange rates respectively for these years in
Forints are 176, 195, 209. 220. 226 and 229.



41
7.4   The foreign exchange component of the Project is estimated at US$I 13 Million or
45 percent percent of total project costs. The local cost component of the project is
estimated at US$ 137 million. This includes taxes and duties estimated at US$43 Million
or 17 percent of total project costs. Estimates of taxes are based on a 25 percent tax on
goods, and 20 percent on civil works. No taxes have been included for services contracts.
7.5   The project investment costs include expenditures for construction, equipment,
furniture, consultancy services, production of training materials, anid local training and
foreign fellowships. Project recurrent costs include limited incremental salaries and
operating costs for the new entities envisaged under the project, including the necessary
maintenance and support contract for the operation of the computer systems for the MIS
component. A PPF for US$2.8 Million approved on October 15, 1997, will finance
project start-up activities, including detailed architectural designs. Detailed project cost
tables are included in the PIP. Summary tables of total costs by component and
expenditure category are shown in Tables 7.1 through 7.3 below.



Table 7.1 Prject CostSummarbyCmn
(Forints Million)                                          (US$ '000)
percent    percent                                        percent    percent
Foreign    Base                                          Foreign      Base
COMPONENT                       Local      Foreign     Total     Exchange   Costs        Local      Foreign      Total     Exchange    Costs
1. Sector Policy Development and Implementation  555.7      714.7    1,270.4         56          3      3,271.6     4,134.9     7,406.5         56         3
2. Higher Education Institutes                 19,173.9   14,074.5   33,248.3        42         82   116,205.2    85,299.7   201,505.0          42        83
3. HEI Management Information Systems           1,294.4    2,074.4    3,368.8        62          8      7,482.2    11,990.7    19,472.9         62          8
4. Management Capacity Development                86.1    1,090.0    1,176.1         93          3       497.5      6,300.6     6,798.1         93          3
5. Student Loan Program                          294.7      152.3      447.0         34          1      1,703.5      880.1      2,583.7         34          1
6. Project Management                            492.9       14.3      507.2          3          1      2,871.9       85.1      2,957.1          3          1
7. Project Preparation FacAtity                  346.3      116.2      462.5         25          1      2,098.7       704.3     2,803.0         25          1
Total BASELINE COSTS                            22,243.9   18,236.3   40,480.2         45        100   134,130.7   109,395.5   243,526.2         45        100
PhysicalContingencies                            176.6      278.6      455.1         61          1      1,020.6     1,610.2     2,630.8         61          1
Price Contingencies                              944.1    1,206.8    2,150.8         56          5      2,061.7     1,782.2     3,843.9         46         2
Total PROJECT COSTS                             23,364.5   19,721.6   43,086.2         46        106   137,213.1   112,787.9   250,000.9         45        103



Table 7.2 Project Cost Summary by Component and Expenditure Category
Sector Policy                 HEI
Development     Higher    Management   Management   Student                       Project
and        Educatio   Information     Capacity       Loan       Project     Preparation
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY             Implementation   Institutes   Systems      Development   Program    Manageme        Facility     Total     percent   Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Construction & Refurbishment                 -   174,998.0            -              -          -             -            -   174,998.0
Design and Supervision                           -    11 687.0                    -            -           -              1700.0   13,387.0
Subtotal Civil Works                             -   186,685.0                    -            -           -              1,700.0  188,385.0         -
B. Vehicle                                          -           -             -             -           -         30.1             -       30.1      10.0         3.0
C. Equipment                                     30.1   10,137.3       14,242.2              -      125.4            -             -   24,535.0       5.9      1,439.8
D. Furniture                                        -    4,682.7              -              -          -            -             -    4,682.7         -           -
E. Technical Assistance
International Consulting Services           2,765.2         -        3,434.5        4,017.0      376.6           -         604.0   11,197.3        4.7       529.7
National Consulting Services                1,970.8         -        1,796.2             -      883.1       2,376.9         138.0    7,165.0       4.9       351.3
Fellowships/Study Tours                     1,272.4         -              -        1,604.3      160.7            -         85.0      3,122.4      4.9        151.9
National Training                                -           -             -        1,176.8      149.7           -         225.0      1,551.5      4.3        66.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance               6,008.4          -       5,230.7        6,798.1    1,570.1      2,376.9       1,052.0   23,036.2       4.8      1,099.2
F. Training Materials                               -           -             -              -      888.2            -          51.0      939.2       9.5         88.8
Total lnvestment Costs                         6,038.5  201,505.0      19,472.9        6,798.1    2583.7        2407.1       2803.0  241608.2         1.1      2,630.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                      840.0          -             -              -          -            -             -      840.0                      -
B. Operating Materials and Supplies             528.0           -             -              -          -        550.0             -     1,078.0        -            -
Total Recurrent Costs                          1,368.0          -             -              -          -        550.0             -     1,918.0        -            -
Total BASELINE COSTS                             7,406.5  201,505.0      19,472.9        6,798.1    2,583.7      2,957.1       2,803.0  243,526.2       1.1      2,630.8
Physical Contingencies                           303.4          -        1,685.8         339.9      179.9        121.9             -     2,630.8        -            -
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                     568.9           -       2,373.7          176.3      447.3      1,135.0            -      4,701.1
Foreign                                   272.0           -         980.9          498.8       30.0          0.4            -      1,782.2
Subtotal Inflation                        840.8           -       3,3547           675.1      477.4      1,135.4             -    6,483.3
Devaluation                                  -313.4          -       -1,284.0        -103.5     -244.5       -694.0             -    -2,639.4              -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                 527.5           -       2,070.6          571.6      232.9        441.4             -     3,843.9      6.6        253.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                              8,237.4   201,505.0     23,229.3        7,709.6    2,996.4      3,520.3       2,803.0   250,000.9      1.2      2,884.6
Taxes                                          8.5   38,470.5        4,3022               -      248.2        1100           10.2   43,149.5        1.0       414.4
Foreign Exchange                            4,610.5    85,2997      13,999.0        7,114.4      971.3         885          704.3   112,787.9      1.5      1,728.9
w



Table 7.3 Project Cost Summarv by Expenditure Cateuory
(Forints Million)                                       (US$ '000)
percent    percent                                     percent    percent
Foreign     Base                                        Foreign     Base
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY               Local    Foreign     Total     Exchange   Costs      Local      Foreign     Total     Exchange   Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Construction & Refurbishment    15,881.1   12,993.6  28,874.7         45        71    96,248.9    78,749.1   174,998.0        45        72
Design and Supervision               2,208.9         -    2,208.9          -         5    13,387.0          -    13,387.0          -         5
Subtotal Civil Works                 18,089.9   12,993.6   31,083.5       42        77   109,635.9    78,749.1   188,385.0       42         77
B. Vehicle                                    -       5.2        5.2        100         -           -        30.1       30.1        100          -
C. Equipment                             1,663.5    2,500.0   4,163.5        60        10     9,803.0    14,732.0   24,535.0         60        10
D. Furniture                              695.4      77.3      772.6         10         2     4,214.4      468.3    4,682.7          10         2
E. Technical Assistance
International Consulting Services          -    1,932.3    1,932.3       100         5           -    11,197.3    11,197.3       100         5
National Consulting Services         1,238.4         -    1,238.4          -         3     7,165.0          -     7,165.0          -         3
Fellowships/Study Tours                    -     539.5      539.5        100         1           -     3,122.4    3,122.4        100         1
National Training                      149.1     117.5      266.6         44         1       872.2      679,3    1,551.5          44         1
Subtotal Technical Assistance         1,387.5    2,589.3    3,976.8       65        10     8,037.2    14,999.0   23,036.2         65         9
F.TrainingMaterials                       113.3      48.8      162.1         30         -       656.4      282.8       939.2         30          -
Total Investment Costs                  21,949.6   18,214.2  40,163.8        45        99   132,346.9   109,261.3  241,608.2         45        99
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                               138.6         -      138.6          -          -      840.0           -      840.0          -          -
B. Operating Materials and Supplies       155.7      22.1      177.9         12         -       943.8       134.2     1,078.0        12          -
Total Recurrent Costs                     294.3      22.1      316.5          7         1      1,783.8      134.2     1,918.0         7         1
Total BASELINE COSTS                     22,243.9   18,236.3   40,480.2       45        100   134,130.7   109,395.5  243,526.2        45        100
Physical Contingencies                    176.6      278.6     455.1         61         1      1,020.6    1,610.2    2,630.8         61         1
Price Contingencies                       944.1    1,206.8    2,150.8        56         5     2,061.7     1,782.2    3,843.9         46         2
Total PROJECT COSTS                      23,364.5   19,721.6   43,086.2       46        106   137,213.1   112,787.9   250,000.9       45        103



45
B. PROJECT FINANCING
7.6   The proposed Loan of Deutsche Marks 263.4 million (US$150.0 million
equivalent) will finance 60 percent of total project costs, or 100 percent of foreign costs
for all direct and indirect expenditures and about 40 of local expenditures, excluding
taxes. The Government contribution of US$ 100 million will finance 40 percent of total
project costs, including all duties and taxes, 77 percent of incremental recurrent costs and
about 40 percent of local investment expenditures including taxes. All project
,counterpart funds are expected to be secured through the Government's central budget;
financing of CIPs will also be supplemented through local, municipal and institution
budgets. The Loan includes the refund of PPF (US$2.8 million), but does not provide for
retroactive financing. The project's financing is as follows:



Table 7.4 Project Financinm Arraneenients
(US$ '000)
Local
The Government           The Uank                 Total                         (Exel.     Duties &
EXPENDrITuRE CATE(GOIRV                 Amount                Amount                Amount                For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes
1. Investncusct Costs
A. (Civil Works
New Constructlioni & Ref1urbishment         76,386.6     43.7     98,611.4     56.3    174,998.0      70.0     78,749.1    61,249.3    34,999.6
Design and Supervision                            -        -      13,387.0    10(.0      13,387.0      5.4            -    13,387.0
Subtotal Civil Works                       76,386.6      40.5    111,998.4     59.5    188,385.0      75.4     78,749.1    74,636.3    34,999.6
B. Vehicle                                            -        -         33.5    100.0          33.5        -         33.5            -           -
C. Equipmlent                                  14,483.3     52.6      13.038.0     47.4     27,521.2      11.0     16,366.6     4,274.4     6,880.3
1). Furniture                                   4.682.7    100.0            -         -      4,682.7       1.9       468.3      3,277.9       936.5
E. Techiuical Assistance
Iiternational Consulting Services             514.1      4.1      11.984.7     95.9      12,498.8      5.0     12,498.8           -            -
National Consulting Services                 2,201.8     25.5      6,431.1     74.5       8,633.0      3.5            -      8,633.0
Fellowships/Study'Tours                           -         -      3,470.5    100.0       3,470.5      1.4      3,470.5           -
Nationall Training                              0.0         -      1.743.2    10(.0       1,743.2      0.7        745.2       997.9
Subtotal 'I'cchnical Assistance              2,715.9     10.3     23.629.5     89.7      26,345.4     10.5     16,714.5      9630.9-
F. Training Materials                             223.0     20.0        892.0      80.0       1,115.0     0.4        321.7        570.4       223.0
'I'otal Investment Costs                       98,491.5     39.7    149.591.4      60.3    248,082.9     99.2    112,653.7    92,389.8    43,039.5
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                       840.0    100.0            -         -        840.0      0.3             -       840.0
B. Operating Ilaterials and Supplies              638.0     59.2        440.0      40.8      1,078.0      0.4         134.2       833.8       110.0
TOotal Recurrent Costs                          1.478.0     77.1        440.0      22.9       1,918.0     0.8         134.2     1.673.8       110.0
lotal l)isbursement                              99,969.5     40.0    150,031.4     601.0    250,000.9    100.0    112,787.9    94,063.6    43,149.5
(( )NIIRN LA I iON IIY H1 11 M INIS IRY ( oI  INANA N'I.I '  1'1  ( ).:J( I1  I:NAN( IN( i'I .LAN ANI ('() INII NTERIPART 1:I NAN(CING R EQUIR ',IFM I .N'I S WOUI I 13 1 A CONDITI'rON FOR
NElO( it )lIA  l )I5i.



47
C. DISBURSEMENTS
7.7   The proposed Project is expected to be implemented over a period of six years,
and will be disbursed over a period of six half years. The Loan Closing Date will be June
30, 2004. The longer than average implementation period is needed to complete the
capital investments in the HEI and the longer-term institutional development objectives.
The disbursements schedule is based on a payment lag of about six to twelve months as
the majority of the Loan funds are allocated for construction. Since the MOE already has
experience in implementing a Bank-financed project, it is expected that the project will
benefit from the procurement and accounting capacity that exists in FEFA, the MOE
entity responsible for these activities. The estimated schedule of disbursements is as
follows:
Table 7.5: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
(Deutsche Marks Million)
Bank Fiscal Year:      1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04
Disbursements:
Annual                7.0       14.0    31.6      43.9     56.2     61.5     49.4
Cumulative            7.0      21.0     52.6     96.5      152.7   214.2    263.6
Cumulative % of Total:  2%     5%       20%      37%      58%       81%      100%



48
7.8   The Loan will disburse against the following expenditures as shown below:
60 percent of the civil works component of the CIPs; or other components of the project,
100 percent of foreign and local (ex-factory) or 80 percent of other locally procured
goods, and 100 percent (net of taxes) for consultant's services, fellowships, and national
training:
Table 7.6: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
(Deutsche Marks)
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(Expressed in   % of Expenditures to be
Category                DEM)                Financed
(1)   Civil works for Investments       173,400,000  60%
under Part B of the Project
(2)   Consultants' services              50,770,000  100%
(including auditing services),
training and fellowships
(3)   Goods                              23,010,000  100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(4)   Incremental Operating Costs         4,220.000  100% up to June 30,
2000 and 75% thereafter
(5)   Refunding of Project                4,920.000  Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance                           to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated                         7,280,000
TOTAL                             263,600,000



49
7.9   All disbursements will be fully documented except for civil works and goods
contracts costing less than US$300,000 equivalent and for technical assistance contracts
less than US$ 100,000 for firms andUS$50,000 for individuals and all training and
fellowship expenditures. For expenditures below that level, disbursements will be made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE) certified by the PMU director. The
required supporting documentation will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after
receipt by Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
The documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting
Bank staff upon request.
7.10  A PPF (US$2.8 Millionj has been provided to finance project activities up to the
point of Loan effectiveness. A Special Account (SA) for the PPF has been opened. The
same SA may continue to be used for the Loan. Any amount not used under the PPF, at
the time the PPF is refinanced, is devolved to the Unallocated Disbursement Category.
D. PROJECT ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
7.11  Under the project, MOE will sign subproject grant agreements with HEIs whose
CIPs have been approved. The agreements will commit the government to financing the
agreed works from two accounts, the Special Account and the Project Account. The
FEFA secretariat will supervise administration of contracts and expenditures made under
these accounts. as approved by the MOE.
7.12  A Project Account (PA) in Hungarian Forints (HUF) could be established prior to
Loan Effectiveness which will be used by PMU and FEFA for expenditures to be covered
by local counterpart financing. The PA and SA will be audited in accordance with the
Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank" (latest edition). The Borrower will provide the Bank (within six month of
the end of fiscal year. and not later than by June 30th each year), an audit report of such
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request. including a separate opinion by an
independent auditor acceptable to the bank, on disbursement against certified SOEs. The
separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation. can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawal application.
7.13  Special Account (SA) To facilitate the timely flow of payments for project
expenditures, the Government will establish, maintain, and operate a Special Account in
the NBH, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Account will be
denominated in Deutsche Marks. An authorized allocation of DEM 7.0 million
(equivalent to an average of four months's expenditures expected to be made through the
SA) has been agreed. However. the allocation should not exceed DEM 3.5 million until
an aggregate of withdrawal should be equal to or exceed DEM 21.0 million. Procedures
for making payments directly from the Loan Account or directly out of the local Special
Account and outlined in the Loan Agreement and will be supplemented by a separate
Disbursement Letter issued by the Bank's Loan Department.



50
7.14  The financial management and control systems of the project implementation
agencies, PMU and FEFA, are in place and operating satisfactorily. The Government
will maintain separate project accounts and records of expenditures financed under the
Loan, according to international accounting standards and principles. Records and
invoices will be available to Bank supervision missions which will conduct random
reviews, in particular, of invoices for expenditures documented to the Bank on the basis
of SOEs. Records will be maintained for one year beyond Loan closing. The auditors
will be selected by the time of project effectiveness.
7.15  The MCE expects to enter into a contract with independent auditors to conduct an
annual audit of expenditures incurred with the proceeds of the loan to comply with bank
guidelines for audit reporting. the MCE/PMU will prepare terms of reference acceptable
to the bank to define the scope and details of the treasury audit which should include
random visits to project provincial sites. annual audit reports of project expenditures
eligible under the loan will be submitted within six months of the end of each calendar
year. the first audit will be due to the bank by june 30. 1999, six months after the
completion of the first project year.
E. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
7.16  In May 1995, the Hungarian Parliament passed the Public Procurement Law
(POL), Act XL of 1995. The PPL is based on the European Union's directives on
procurement and on the UNCITRAL model public procurement law. It provides for
competitive procedures and is consistent with the underlying principles served by the
Bank's procurement rules --i.e., economy, efficiency, and transparency. In November
1996, a draft Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was prepared by Bank
staff, and discussed in detail with the Hungarian Government in January 1997. The final
version of the CPAR is expected to be issued soon. The procurement arrangements of
this Project are based on the recommendations of the draft CPAR and discussion of it
with Hungarian authorities.
7.17  A detailed Schedule of Procurement Arrangements has been prepared which
identifies all contracts to be tendered for goods, works, and services under the Project and
is attached as Annex 17. Procurement arrangements by expenditure category are shown
in Table 7.7.



51
Table 7.7 Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Procurement Element                     ICB          NCB          Other       N.B.F.       Total
A. Works
1. CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION AND REFURBISHMENT                       110.0         65.0            -           -       175.0
(60.1)       (38.5)                               (98.6)
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNS AND ENGINEERING                    -            -         11.7           -        11.7
(11.7) 8                (11.7)
B. Goods
1. VEHICLES                                                              -          0.0           -         0.0
(0.0)                   (0.0)
2. EQUIPMENT                                             12.8            -          4.6         10.2       27.6
(9.4)           -         (3.6) 9                (13.0)
3. FURNITURE                                                             -            -         4.7         4.7
C. Consultancies
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                   -         22.6           -        22.6
(19.8)                  (19.8)
2. FELLOWSHIPS                                                           -          3.6           -         3.6
(3.6)                  (3.6)
D. Miscellaneous
1. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                           -          0.6         1.4         2.0
(0.4)                   (0.4)
2. PPF REFINANCING /a                                       -            -          2.8           -         2.8
(2.8)                   (2.8)
Total                                                     122.8         65.0         45.9 1      16.3       250.0
of which Bank financed                                 (69.5)        (38.5)       (42.0)           -     (150.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts
Not Bank Financed
Others includes
\a Includes US$1.7 million for Architectural Design and US$1.1 million for technical assistance and training materials.
Procurement of Civil Works (US$188 million):
7.18    The Loan will finance civil works for about nine Higher Education Institutes
(HEIs). The project envisages architectural design competitions for the works at each
HEI. Architectural firms will be contracted through a design competition under QCBS
selection procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants and the Bank's Standard Form of Contract. It is estimated
that there will be nine architectural contracts with each university, totaling US$ 13.4
Million in aggregate value. Contracts for new construction and refurbishment estimated
d through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). It is estimated that about three
MIS equipment packages will be procured through ICB, totaling US$12.8 Million in
8 Use of Guides for Selection and Employment of Consultants (see Procurement Arrangements, Ailnex
17).
9 lnternational Shopping (US$4.1 Million); National Shopping (US$500,000) for vehicles, office
equipment and materials.



52
aggregate value. Contracts estimated to cost between US$500,000 and US$100,000 will
be procured through International Shopping (IS) procedures. It is estimated that about
14 contracts will be procured through IS, not exceeding US$4.1 Million in aggregate
value. Contracts costing below US$100,000 will be procured through National
Shopping (NS), not exceeding US$2.2 million in aggregate value. Non- Bank Financed
i(NBF) goods estimated to cost about US$14.9 million will be procured according to
Government procedures.
7.19  The World Bank's requirement for economy, efficiency, and transparency in the
procurement process will be fully met through the above procedures. including through
the use of NCB. Hungary is a highly open economy with a well developed and
competitive construction industry. Approximately 60 firms have been identified which
are either foreign-owned or joint ventures, representing vigorous participation in the
Hungarian market of at least ten countries (Austria, Belgium, Canada. France, Germany,
Scandinavia [Sweden. Finland. Norway}. Spain, Switzerland, USA). Construction firms
in other neighboring countries (e.g.. Slovenia, Slovakia, Croatia, Romania, Serb Repubic)
typically have ready access to Hungarian language capability because off their substantial
ethnic representation and historical connections. Finally compliance with Bank
Guidelines for NCB would be closely monitored through the Resident Mission's
experienced national procurement specialist. In short, use of NCB procedures would
ensure economy and transparency while achieving substantial gains in efficiency, since
time and effort would be saved by the various universities working in the Hungarian
language.
Procurement of Goods (US$34million):
7.20 Goods would be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996. Contracts estimated to cost more than
US$500,000 would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). It
is estimated that about three MIS equipment packages would be procured through ICB,
totaling US$12.8 Million in aggregate value. Contracts estimated to cost between
US$500,000 and US$100,000 would be procured through International Shopping (IS)
procedures. It is estimated that about 14 contracts would be procured through IS, not
exceeding US$4.1 Million in aggregate value. Contracts costing below US$ 100,000
would be procured through National Shopping (NS) not exceeding US$2.2 million in
aggregate value. Non-Bank Financed (NBF) goods estimated to cost about US$14.9
million would be procured according to Government procedures.
Technical Assistance (Consultancy Services, Foreign Fellowships, and Local
Tiraining) (US$26 million):
7.2 1 Technical Assistance will be procured according to the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency "
dated January 1997. It is expected that about 12 technical assistance contracts will be
tendered on a quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS), totaling about US$15.8 million
in aggregate value). About 9 technical assistance contracts will be tendered through
Fixed Budget Services contracts, mainly for twinning arrangements with foreign



53
universities for each participating HEI (aggregate value of US$4.6 million). Individual
university experts and international scholars will be contracted according to Section V of
the Guidelines (aggregate value of US$4.7 million), including members for a consultative
panel for implementation of the higher education reform policies (Intemational Advisory
Board, para. 6.18), training specialists, and project management and sector specialists. In
addition, a PPF agreement includes technical assistance services for project preparation,
training, and project management, for about US$ 1.1 Million.
Contract Review Provision
7.22  Civil Works: (i) The first two contracts. irrespective of value, and each contract
thereafter estimated to cost more than US$ 1.0 million equivalent will be subject to prior
review according to Appendix I. para. 2-3 of the Guidelines; (ii) Contracts estimated to
cost less than US$ 1.0 million equivalent will be subject to post review according to
procedures et forth in para. 4 of Appendix I of the Guidelines. Goods: Contracts
estimated to cost more than US$300,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review
according to Appendix I, para. 2-3 of the Guidelines; and (ii) Contracts estimated to cost
less than US$300,000 will be subject to post review according to procedures set forth in
para. 4 of Appendix I of the Guidelines. Technical Assistance: (i) Contracts estimated to
cost more than US$100,000 equivalent for the employment of consulting firms will be
subject to prior review according to procedures set forth in Appendix I of the Consultant
Guidelines. (ii) With respect to the selection procedures for the employment of
individual consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, terms of
employment and selection will be subject to prior review; and (iii) Contracts for
consulting firms and individuals below the above-mentioned threshold will be subject to
post review according to the provisions of Appendix 1, para. 4 of the Consultant
Guidelines.



54
8. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
8.1    Overview. Implementation of system-wide and institution-specific reforms under
the project will produce a significantly smaller number of integrated, reorganized and
rnore cost-effective multi-faculty institutions with fewer and consolidated academic units
offering programs more directly responsive to market needs. The reforns and
investments will enable Hungary to increase the capacity of the higher education system
by half, while stabilizing or reducing its recurrent costs, improving the quality and
relevance of learning outcomes and speeding the adjustment of skills of workers to the
requirements of an outward-oriented, market economy. The reforms will distribute the
costs of education more equitably and reduce the burden on the state of paying for higher
education.
8.2   Specifically, implementation of the project will enable Hungary to reduce the cost
per student of higher education by up to 30 percent, and to shift about 20 percent of the
burden of paying for higher education from the state to beneficiaries. Thus, the publicly
financed cost per student will decline by up to half. The reform of the structure of the
curriculum and of teaching methods will increase graduates' ability to function
effectively in a rapidly changing economic environment. Finally, the reforms will also
enable the Hungarian higher education system to provide high quality higher education to
about fifty percent more of its young people.
8.3   The quantitative benefits from the project will be very large. The initial
investment may be recovered through cost savings alone in fewer than 3 years. Shifting
fifth of the burden of financing higher education to beneficiaries will not only make
higher education more equitable but will also reduce the cost to society of financing
higher education by reducing the dead weight loss imposed by a highly inefficient tax
system. Based on conservative assumptions about the likely success of the project
(ALnnex 19), economic analyses reveal that the rate of return to the project may be
reasonably expected to exceed 25 percent a year.
8.4   Costs. The proposed project will cost US$250 million. A fifth of these
expenditures (about US$50million ) will be for the development of sector policy.
modernization of management information systems, strengthening of management
capacity and project management. The remaining three-quarters (about US$200 million)
will be used to fund the investments in buildings and equipment required to allow the
formation of multi-faculty universities from smaller institutions. These requirements
include the construction of lecture halls, libraries, administrative offices, and student
services facilities. These investments will allow the constituent faculties to function as an
integrated university, increase the capacity of the university and provide the physical
infrastructure to permit these new universities to exploit scale economies in instruction
and in student services.
8.5   Benefits. The institutional development plan for Szeged University has been
analyzed in detail in order to provide an understanding of the benefits and costs that are



55
likely to be obtained from the higher education reform program. Five higher education
institutions have agreed to integrate to form a multi-faculty university; three other
institutions have agreed to become associated members. The new university has prepared
an institutional development plan (IDP) that defines the mission of the university and
outlines the steps that are to be taken in order to fulfill it. Total enrollment is planned to
increase from 11,100 to 13,400 over a five year period. The need for academic staff is
expected to shrink by about 5 percent and for the non academic staff by about 41 percent
as a result of the merger and associated reforms. The number of students per academic
staff member will increase from 7.7 to 9.8 as a result. The investment program will
provide a joint library, lecture halls. dormitories, and administrative offices, as well as
support for the development of an administrative computing system and the improvement
of management capacity. Estimates of costs have been prepared on the basis of actual
bids for similar work.
8.6   The merger and reform of the five institutions is estimated to lead to savings in
recurrent costs of US$ 20.6 million a year if academic salaries remain at their 1996 real
level. This will generate a rate of return of 47 percent, derived from a benefit stream of
recurrent salary cost savings and a cost stream of the enabling investments. However,
academic salaries have fallen dramatically during the 1 990s and no longer provide a
reasonable return on investments in human capital. If one assumes that salary levels are
restored to a level that provides a competitive return on private investments in human
capital, then the annual savings rise to about US$38.7 million and the internal rate of
return on investments on this sub project will then be 84 percent. The enrollment
projections that have been adopted are conservative. If the maximum capacity of the
university were used, about 17.700 student could be enrolled. Annex 18 describes these
plans in greater detail and provides a more complete economic analysis of them.
8.7   The economics of the proposed student loan program have also been analyzed in
detail. The purpose of the student loan program is to ensure that the introduction of
tuition charges does not result in the exclusion of able students from higher education.
(The imposition of tuition charges is motivated by the need to distribute the costs of
education more fairly, to create a demand driven system of higher education and to
diversify the revenue sources of universities.) The aim of Government is to recover
approximately 20 percent of the cost of education from the beneficiaries. The
commercial banking system will provide loans secured by a guarantee from an
autonomous student loan guarantee agency. The guarantee agency will in turn be insured
by the Government. Loans of about US$90 million a year will be required if a third of
students enrolled in higher education financed half of the private cost of attendance with a
guaranteed student loan. If the default rate were similar to that observed in very well run
programs elsewhere (10 to IS percent) and the average loss on a bad loan's were 40
percent of the original amount of the loan, then the annual loss will be 4 to 6 percent of
the initial amount or roughly US$3.5-5.0 million a year when the system becomes fully
mature. This amount should be offset against the reduction in public expenditures on
higher education that a student loan program will make politically feasible. Recovery of
a 20 percent of the cost of higher education will have reduced public expenditures by
about US$77 million in 1996. In as much as the cost of mobilizing public funds is
estimated to produce a welfare loss of about 70 percent of revenues, this saving is worth
more than US$ 131 million in private consumption. Therefore the net economic gain



56
fromn the introduction of a student loan program will be in excess of US$125 million a
year.
8.8   The value of improvements in the quality of education is difficult to quantif', but
clearly will be significant. The creation of multi-faculty universities and colleges will
increase the likelihood of cross fertilization among disciplines and promote
interdisciplinary research and teaching. The development of modular curricula will
increase opportunities for students to interact with students in other degree programs and
will force students to develop skills in applying knowledge and in applying skills from a
cognate discipline to their own field of interest. The modularization of the curriculum
will also produce more flexible and responsive degree programs, thus allowing students
to construct programs of study that address emerging interests and needs. Finally, the
emphasis on independent study and self-directed research activities, made possible by
strengthening library. computer and laboratory facilities, will develop skills in accessing,
evaluating and synthesizing a variety of information resources. In view of the high rate
of return to the investment when these benefits are ignored and the difficulty in assigning
a value to these benefits, no effort-has been made to quantify benefits of improving the
quality of education.
B. DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS
8.9   The policy conditions and investments to be supported by the proposed project
will benefit several groups. The principal group of beneficiaries will be students.
Systemic reforms -- such as the introduction of the credit-hour system of academic
accounting; development of short training programs and continuing education; creation of
greater choice of study program; greater concentration on basics; and provision of more
elective courses within degree programs -- will greatly increase the responsiveness of
higher education to the needs. aspirations and capacities of students. The immediate
result will be graduates trained in subjects more relevant to a market economy, leading to
increased productivity, more rapid labor re-deployment and gre,ater flexibility in response
to shifts in demand. Less financially advantaged students will also benefit from a fairer
system of financing of higher education, an effective student loan program and the
targeting of subsidies.
8.10  The project will also help to contain public spending on higher education through
reduced recurrent costs per student and increased mobilization of non-state resources.
The public budget will benefit through a cap, in relative terms, on public spending for
higher education. The proposed project will have a major impact on the efficiency of
resource allocation within higher education. Recurrent costs will be allocated according
to enrollment-based norms and average units costs by field of study. Development
expenditures will be awarded by intermediary organizations on the basis of competition
according to least-cost criteria. Individual HEIs will take steps to reduce teaching costs
per student. The HEIs will also improve their management of resources through
improved management information services. Reliable data will become available on the
national level, leading to better decision-making. These steps will achieve more efficient
use of resources within higher education, and will tend to reduced unit recurrent costs per
student. In addition, mobilization of non-state resources through increased tuition fees



57
and other sources will reduce the public cost per student. In the end the economy and the
population at large will benefit through narrowing the overall fiscal gap.
C. PROJECT RISKS
8.11   The proposed project calries substantial risks. The fundamental changes it seeks
to achieve will have major consequences for three key interest groups: the higher
education establishment, teaching staff, and students and their parents. The proposed
project will reduce substantially centralized control in a number of areas: finances,
enrollment allocations and curricula. It will extend institutional autonomy to new areas
with monitoring and increased accountability. Each of the basic changes will threaten
key interest groups and thus entail risks to the project. The risk of resistance or
opposition from one or more of these groups cannot be eliminated, but it can be reduced
by careful planning that explicitly acknowledges its potential.
8.12  Members of the academic establishment might resist the reform because the
project will accelerate the introduction of norms-based funding and thus undermine the
privileges enjoyed in the past by large. prestigious institutions. This risk has been
addressed by the state decision to phase in the normative budgeting system over a period
of years. In addition, the institutions seeking integration can themselves expect internal
resistance to giving up traditional authority enjoyed by each of the constituent faculties
and departments. Twinning relationships are being created with world-class universities
that operate under principles similar to those being proposed for Hungary in order to
provide opportunities for Hungarian faculty members to see first hand how large, multi-
faculty universities operate, to help to show the advantages to students and faculty of
integration. and to provide a respected peer group for professors who are dealing with
chang.
8. 13  The most serious risk associated with this project is that academic staff may not
embrace the changes in curricula and teaching methods required to effect the desired
reforms. Efforts to increase the student-teacher ratio through reduced weekly student
contact hours, and merger of courses to produce larger class sizes will initially reduce the
need for teaching staff with consequent loss of jobs. This outcome might be resisted by
the staff. Enforcement of minimum teaching hours by staff will impinge upon the ability
of teachers to engage in income supplementing work outside the institution. Older
faculty, approaching retirement may be less willing to embrace change or to make the
effort required to effect the reform. In the slightly long term, the maturity of the existing
faculty offers an advantage in that much of the staff that will implement the reforms will
be recruited after the reforms were officially adopted.
8.14  Students and parents may be expected initially to resist the universal application
of fees and tuition charges. The student protests against tuition charges in 1996 resulted
in a rollback of proposals for supplementary charges set by individual institutions. This
risk will be countered by introduction of student loans, also a demand of student
associations. In addition, the loss of control of the distribution of the student support
grants may produce resistance from the student unions. Students now control the
allocation of these funds and in most instances distribute the money evenly among
students, regardless of need. Changing the rules for allocations of financial assistance



58
will deprive many students of current income and might provoke unrest. This risk has
been reduced by closely involving of student leadership in the design of the project.
8.15  Finally, the project's fundamental risk derives from uncertainty about the
willingness of the national leadership to sustain short-term discontent from key
educational actors in order to achieve the nation's long term goals. The project's basic
strategy -- central action on fundamental changes, implemented initially (and
incrementally) in a self-selected group of pilot institutions -- is designed to minimize this
risk. In addition, the project has been designed in stages so that the central government
and the pilot institutions must continue the reforms in order to secure continued funding.



59
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
9.1   During negotiations the Borrower gave assurances that it would:
(a)    refrain from deficit financing and maintain a policy requiring HEIs to
operate from a balanced budget.;
(b)    maintain the HERC, FEFA Secretariat and PMU with funds, facilities,
functions, powers, and qualified staff in adequate numbers (including
Project Director. Executive Director of FEFA and Director of PMU)
necessary to assist MCE to supervise and manage the Project as deemed
satisfactory by the Bank;
(c)    select, in consultation with the Bank, higher education associations for
investments under the project which have (i) been approved formally by
Government as associations, (ii) prepared comprehensive institution
development plans based on an analysis of strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and risks for the institution, (iii) prepared comprehensive
CIPs based on analysis of use factors of existing premises and (iv)
obtained the approval for these plans of the respective institutional
councils;
(d)    approve IDPs and CIPs, in consultation with the Bank, in accordance
with agreed criteria and procedures and on specified terms and
conditions;
(e)    make capital investments under the project in accordance with specified
procedures and terms and conditions of approval;
(f)    use the same procedures and criteria as under the proposed project for all
its capital investments in the higher education sector; and
(g)    establish, staff and maintain an International Advisory Panel for the
purpose of evaluating, commenting and advising on the implementation
of the reform program under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Prior to Board presentation, the Borrower:
(a)   signed an agreement between the three HEIs, the MOE and the MOF
granting the HEIs greater financial authority,
(b)   adopted a strategy on private higher education acceptable to the Bank;
(c)   adopted an acceptable plan for development of a student loan scheme;
(d)   confirmed that the Deputy State Secretary for Higher Education will be the
Project Director, appointed the Executive Director of FEFA in
consultationwith the Bank, and established the PMU with a Director
acceptable to the Bank;
(e)   established and staffed the FEFA Ad Hoc Committee with members and
TOR acceptable to the Bank;



60
(f) sent a "Letter of Sector Development Policy on Higher Education" to the
Bank and prepared a Policy and Institutional Matrix acceptable to the Bank;
(g) obtained acceptance in principle from the FTT of at least two IDPs and
completed first stage review by FEFA of at least two CIPs;
(h) revised and re-issued the Integrationi and FE} A decrees;
(i) confirmed througlh the MOF the project financing plan and counterpart
funding:
(j) signed PPF agreement and ensured that funds can be disbursed;
(k) sent a copy of the Ministerial Resolution (MCE) establishing the PMU and
relevanit provisions of the ACT CV 1995 ameniding the Act on1 State
Budgetary Procedures.
9l.2   During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to the following condition of
disbursement, namely, that capital investments in civil works will not be financed by the
Bank. unless the said investments have been made in accordance with the procedures,
criteria and on the terms and conditions specified by the Bank. The Borrower agreed to
the conditions for approval of capital investments for phases 2 and 3 of the project.
9.3   Additional conditions of effectiveness of the Loan are:
(a) promulgation of a Government decree intended to: (i) merge the maintenance
with the teaching allocation category in the normative financing system for
1998 and thereafter, and (ii) reduce the total number of normative recipient
categories from 14 to no more than 7;
(b) establishment of the Office of the NCC pursuant to the relevant provisions of
the Higher Education Act;
(c) submission of a proposal with terms of reference for a study on methods and
procedures for targeting student subsidies on students in financial need;
(d) establishment of a task force to oversee the design of the Borrower's student
loan guarantee program under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(e) establishment and staffing of the International Advisory Panel under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
Recommendation
9.4   Subject to the agreements outlined above, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank single currency loan of DEM 263.4 million to the Republic of Hungary. with a 15-
year maturity, including five years of grace, at the Bank's LIBOR-based fixed interest
rate.



Annex 1
Page 1
HIGHER EDUCATION
IN HUNGARY
March, 1997



Annex 1
Page 2
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECTI
I. Background
A.    HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
Prewar characteristics of the higher education system
1.    Hungarian higher education is still in transition from a system inherited from the Socialist period.
The CurTent system, however, is built on the prewar system whose major characteristics were the
following:
2.    Low student numbers. The number of students between 1935/36 and 1939/40 was 153 per
100,000 inhabitants, one of the lowest ratios in Europe. Hungary was one of the first nations in Europe to
introduce a quota system for Jewish students in 1920. The number of female students was also limited.
3.    Structure of the system. Compared to other countries in Europe, the structure of higher education
was quite outdated and disproportional. Table I shows the distribution of students by field in Hungary in
1937/3 8:
Table 1. Distribution of students by field of study, Hungary, 1937/38
Field  of Theol.  Law   Social & Natural   Techn.   Medic.   Agricult.  Econom.   Art
study  _                 Sc., Pedagogy
%     of   11%    38%          17%           8%       12%       8%         5%       2%
students;
Source: Ladanyi, 1989 (p. 14)
4.    Hungary had one of the highest proportions of legal (38 %) and theological (11 %) programs, and
among the lowest of economic or business programs (5 %) in Europe. The 1941 Census also showed that
more than a third of university and college graduates had possessed a law degree, and only 13% a
technical (engineering) degree.
5.    In the last academic year before W.W. II., Hungary had 42 higher education institutions, 70% of
which were religious institutions. These HEIs were the following by type: 4 universities of sciences, a
University of Technology, 3 parochial law academies, 3 colleges of economics, a college of fine arts, a
state-owned and a parochial teachers' college, a teachers' college of special education, a teachers' college
of physical education and 26 theological colleges. This distribution shows that technical and economics
training was conducted in one, law training in 7, and theological training in 29 higher education
institutions.
' This analysis was prepared by Judit D. Nagy.



Annex 1
Page 3
Major changes at the beginning of the socialist period
Expansion in student numbers.
6.     The first reform in 1948-49, following the Communist take-over in 1948, aimed at subordinating
the system to the needs of the "populist democracy" and planned economy. The socialist state's higher
education policy was to produce the appropriate number of graduates who, according to the party's
directives, would be needed in the future industrialized country. A large increase in student numbers
thus occurred: the number of first-year students more than doubled between 1949 and 1952, from 6,262 to
13,534. By the early fifties, the number of students per 100,000 inhabitants (490) reached fourth place
among 22 European nations. Higher education reform focused on training in economics, technical and
natural sciences. Accordingly, one of the first measures was the establishment of an independent
University of Economics in 1948, then a second and a third technical university. By 1949, technical
training became the largest field of training in higher education. The largest increase in student numbers
took place in technical and teacher training programs, and the greatest decrease in social science, law and
medical programs. Large expansion of evening and correspondence classes, as well as the abolition of
limits on female student numbers significantly contributed to the increase of students in higher education.
7.     Sectoral supervision. The role of higher education administration was given to ministerial
authorities who made most decisions for the institutions, including new curriculum, as well as
examinations, and some in daily matters. The governmental structure of higher education administration
was further divided between different supervising authorities and branch portfolios, each in charge of
training programs for the high-level labor force under their jurisdiction. In 1953, the 32 HEIs of Hungary
were under the supervision of 11 ministries. Professorial nominations were made at national level by the
Presidential Council until 1950, and thereafter by the national government.
8.    Ph.D. programs taken out of universities. One of the most radical changes in the vertical structure
was brought about by the 1949 Act on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The law effectively
weakened the role, power and institutional autonomy of universities by subordinating of doctoral
programs and the right of awarding doctoral degrees to the administration of the Academy. The Act also
introduced a new doctoral level above the doctoral degrees, called "Candidate", a Soviet import, which
was issued through a separate governmental institution, the Committee of Scientific Qualifications. The
candidature replaced the traditional process of habilitation, and professorial control with a bureaucratic
oversight.
9.     Research taken out of universities. The Party's policy was to separate teaching and basic research.
Thus were established independent research institutes with the explicit purpose of taking research entirely out
of universities. These research institutes operated under the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (HAS), and
their researchers had very little contact with the universities. HAS research institutes were better equipped
and more highly respected than university departments.
Characteristics of the Socialist Period
10.    The most important inherited characteristics of the higher educational system of the Socialist
period are the following:
11.   Rigid training and diploma structure. The Hungarian higher educational system is traditionally
two-tiered, following the continental traditions of a binary system of universities ("egyetem") and colleges
("foiskola"). Colleges and universities provide courses leading to distinct diplomas, called "college
diploma" and "university diploma." Universities may issue both diplomas, and furthermore, they may
provide Ph.D. degrees in certain programs accredited for that purpose. The duration of studies is 4-6
years at universities, and 3-4 years in colleges. The college diploma may abroad be presented as a BA



Annex 1
Page 4
degree and the university diploma may be presented as a Master's degree. However, the existing two
diplomas may not be considered equivalent to BA and MA as they do not represent different levels or
degrees: Both college and university programs start at the same age, following the successful completion
of secondary school, and the completion of college education is not a prerequisite of continuing studies in
a university program.
12.    Specialized programs. Higher education programs in both colleges and universities were highly
specialized, focusing on training for specific professions. These specialized training programs were not
based on modular and transferable training blocks or designed to be built on one another. Instead of
starting with general subject matters and heading towards more and more specific skills during the course
of studies, the system of higher education consisted of disconnected training tracks leading towards
different diplomas and professional careers.
13.   Without any central effort to integrate the training programs and institutions into a unified higher
education system, students could not take classes outside their respective institutions and were destined to
graduaite and start employment in a pre-planned and pre-decided field of study (without options to modify
the course of their education later). Interdisciplinary courses were not offered because of inadequate
staffing, and rigid departmental structures, but most of all, because such provisions appeared to be
irrelevant to the specialized manpower needs higher education was planned to serve.
14.   Central planning system. Higher educational governance was based on the dominant role of state
government. Up until the mid-1980s, the higher education system was entirely planned, controlled and
financed by the state. The centralized governance resulted in limited administrative, financial or
professional autonomy for institutions, a government-controlled planning of admissions, enrollments, overall
student: numbers and graduations. Professional and academic quality was subordinated to quantitative needs,
and institutions and training programs were specialized to serve these manpower needs of the planned
economy. Enrollment numbers were centrally determined by manpower needs of the Socialist economy,
based on forecasts by the National Bureau of Planning and the respective ministries (often ignoring other
aspects, such as demographic changes, individual aspirations, or academic standards).
15.   Beginning in the 1 970s, the planning system gradually lost its resoluteness and political power,
and became an increasingly incremental, informal (less transparent), and incoherent bargaining arena for
various institutional interests and sectors of the economy and public administration. Manpower forecasts
gradually lost their vital importance by the 1980s, and were substituted by more haphazard budget
negotiaLtions between the various Ministries in charge of various higher education sectors and the Ministry
of Finance. Institutional interests were represented by the ministries of Culture and Education;
Agriculture; Welfare; Defense; Industry and Commerce and Interior. This negotiation process, however,
allowed only minor, if any, changes in the training structure, and it retained over-specialization and
limited institutional authority. As a result, the training structure developed and later retained a heavy
concentration on technical fields, agriculture and engineering. It exacerbated the incongruence between
the qualifications of higher education graduates and labor market needs, even though this concentration
and level of specialization did not correspond either to student demand orthe changing labor market For
example, according to data from the Ministry of Culture and Education (MKM), even in 1986, 40% of higher
education students enrolled in teacher training programs, 21% in technical, and 6% in agricultural programs
In the same year, in fields with heavy market demands, however, enrollments remained low,u.e.., 11% in
economics, 6% in law, 2% in natural sciences and 2% in human sciences.
16.   The Socialist government had recognized "over-production" in certain fields but had neither the
political capacity or willingness to undertake strategic restructuring towards more generalized and
demanded professional fields.



Annex 1
Page 5
17.    Selectivity and elitism. From the 1970s on, development of higher education in Hungary halted.
The earlier trend of expansion, based on the emergence of technical training, was restrained, but no new
direction emerged. As a result, higher education was stuck at a selective level and remained essentially
elitist in terms of access. The trend between the early 1970s and late 1980s in Hungary (and Central and
Eastern Europe) was markedly different from the West. In 1989, less then 10 percent of the age group 18-
22 was enrolled in higher education, one of the lowest ratios in Europe. Even including students in evening
and correspondence programs as well, this ratio, at around 15 percent, was still low compared to the Western
European average. Despite the regime's strong political commitment to support the access of the children of
low income families, higher education was unable or unwilling to increase relative enrollments The
percentage of children of manual workers among first-year full-time students decreased from 66 percent in
1955, to 36 percent in 1987. Admission to higher education was controlled through entrance examinations
and occasionally through special quotas favoring children of the working class. The number ofapplicants
and admittances to higher education institutions showed a constant surplus of applicants (i.e. in the 1987/88
academic year, over-application was about 250%, and 255% in the following year.)
18.   Fragmentation of institutions. During the Socialist period, institutional, professional and local
authorities were strongly limited and innovative capacities were curbed. Universities were divided, various
faculties were either closed or re-established as separate units, such as universities of economics, medicine,
agriculture or horticulture. New colleges were established to serve various branches of industry or the public
sector. Thus the institutional structure of the higher education system was fragmenled, consisting of a high
number of individual institutions, the majority of which were small with greatly specialized profiles In
1978, there were 80 HEIs, with the following enrollment figures:
Table 2. Number of students and HEIs, Hungary, 1978
Number of students                Number of institutions
less than 300                       24 (30%)
301-500                           18 (22%)
501-1000                           20 (25%)
1001-2500                          15 (19%)
over 2500                           3 (4%)
Total                           80 (100%)
Source: MKM
19.   The table indicates that only the three largest universities enrolled more than 2,500 students, and
that 77% institutions had less than 1000 students. Students enrolled in specialized programs with
prescribed subjects from the day of entry until the day of graduation. Institutions did not take advantage of
potentially common facilities and/or resources such as libraries, computer halls, language departments, or
equipment maintenance, etc. The fragmented and over-specialized institutional structure fragmented and
constrained intellectual capacities, and resulted in serious drawbacks in cost effectiveness and in academic
quality.
20.   Institutions and faculties had neither the authority nor the drive to diversify or to modernize their
programs significantly. Similarly, their capacity to engage in innovation was also fragmented.
Institutional leaders and faculty members used their intellectual and professional capital instead in active
lobbying to preserve their favorable position or to gain more access to public resources. The lobbying
and the negotiations virtually assured the status quo in finances and erosion of the higher educational
infrastructure, as well as a lack of responsiveness to any newly emerging social, professional, academic or
local demand. Once trained as educators, faculty members had difficulties in changing professional or
academic profiles or improving skills. Chairs and departments were similarly specialized and tied to
narrowly defined training fields. These faculties and departments had instead strong incentives to defend
their positions and the existing structure.



Annex 1
Page 6
21.   In sum, higher education inherited from the Socialist period an inadequate level of integration
between programs, substituted by an overly specialized training structure and confusing govemmental
authorities based mostly on planning admissions and student numbers instead of strategic financial
policies. The absence of a coherent higher educational development strategy was accompanied by the
lack of solid innovative capacities either at central or at institutional levels, and by the lack of
institutionalized representation of consumers' or users' interests and responsibilities. The current
Hungarian higher education system's inefficiency is embedded in a structure and organization inherited
from the previous regime; a departure and reform require the development of a coherent, complex,
systematic and gradual strategy.
22.   Management of the system of higher education. Up until the 1993 Law on Higher Education, the
power of supervising ministries was left untouched. HEIs were placed under the relevant ministries:
agricultural HEIs under the Ministry of Agriculture, military HEIs under the Ministry of Defense, medical
universities under the Ministry of Health (renamed Ministry of Social Welfare in 1992). In 1992,
supervisory authority was distributed among the following ministries:
Table 3. Supervising ministries of HEIs, Hungary, 1992
Supervising Ministry     Universities     Colleges     Total # of HEIs    % of all
supervised    supervised       supervised      students
Ministry of Education                    13              30         43 (70%)        73%
Ministry of Agriculture                   6                -        6 (10%)          8%
Ministry of Social Welfare                5                -          5 (9%)        11%
Ministry of Defence                       1               3          4 (6%)
Minisbty of Industry &                    -                1          1 (2%)
Commerce                                  _
Ministry of Interior                                      2          2 (3%)          **
Total                                    251             36        61(100%)        100%
***The Ministries of Defense, Industry & Commerce and the Interior together accounted for 9% of all
students
Source: Statistical Bulletin. Higher Education, 1991/92
23.   This division of control by different ministries divided the higher education system into subsets,
prevented the formulation of cohesive policies, and impeded the practice of interdisciplinary teaching and
research.
24.   Geographical inequities. The heaviest concentration of HEI enrollments is in Budapest. In
academLic year 1995/96, 41.3% of all students in full-time, correspondence and evening programs were
enrolled there, while only 18% of the population lived in the capital. If those HEIs very close to Budapest
are also counted, the enrollment figure rises to 45%. Among students in Budapest, the distribution of
university and college students was 53% and 47% respectively.
Financing of higher education
25.   Incremental system. In the socialist system, with the exception of church-run institutions
providing religious education, HEIs were state-owned and financed. Each year, budgetary appropriations
for HEIs were decided by a cumbersome process, based on (1) governmental approval of the budgetary
guidelines, (2) proposals of the related ministries, (3) negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, and (4)
final approval of the Parliament. The actual amount of funding was not based on performance indicators,



Annex 1
Page 7
but rather on the previous year's level of operational costs, undifferentiating "automatisms"(wage and
material automatism) to compensate for inflation, and approved increments.
26.   Total educational expenditure was 5% of GDP in Hungary in 1986. The same year the figure was
4.5% for Germany, 5.8% for France and 6.1% for Austria. Total expenditure in higher education in the
same year was 0.7% in Hungary, while 1% in Germany, 0.7% in France, and 1.2% in Austria.
27.   As Table 4 shows, in the last six years, 3.6% to 4.0% of the state budget went to the support of
higher education, accounting for 1-1.3% of GDP:
Table 4. State funding for higher education, in proportion to total central budgetary sources and GDP,
Hungary, 1991-96
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
actual actual  actual  actual expect.  plan
Total higher education expenditures from the state
budget (billion HIUF)
expenditures                           56.2   62.2   73.5   91.5   82.9   93.0
support                                32.1   38.4   45.7   57.7   55.9   59.9
Total state budgetary expenditures           856.2  988.7 1264.1 1453.5 1404.8 1498.6
GDP                                         2491.7 2935.1 3537.8 4330.0 5530.0 6665.0
Total expenditures to  higher education, in 6.56%  6.29%  5.81%  6.30%  5.90%  6.21%
proportion to state budgetary expenditures
Total state support to higher education, in 3.75%  3.88%  3.62%  3.97%  3.98%  4.00%
proportion to total state budgetary expenditures
Higher educational expenditures, as a percentage 2.26%  2.12%  2.08%  2.11%  1.50%  1.40%
of GDP                                                 _
Total support to higher education, as a percentage  1.29%  1.31%  1.29%  1.33%  1.01%  0.90%
of GDP
Source: MKM
28.   Thus although state support has been increasing, it has decreased by one-third in proportion to
GDP. Considering that in the same period full-time enrollment numbers doubled (from 76,600 to
146,000), per capita budgetary support declined significantly in relative terms:
Table 5. Per student state support to higher education, Hungary, 1991-1996
______________________________    1991    1992     1993    1994     1995    1996
Amount of support to higher education   385.9   415.9   440.7   495.8   431.7   418.9
per full-time student, at nominal value
(th HUF/stud)
State support to higher education per 0.045%  0.042%  0.035%  0.034%  0.031%  0.028/%
student, as a % of total state budgetary
expenditures
State support to higher education per 160.4%  146.5%   128.4%   117.7%   79.9%1  64.1%
student, as a % of per capita GDP
Source: MKM



Annex 1
Page 8
29.   As Table 6 illustrates, in an intemational comparison, Hungary's expenditure in higher education
as a percentage of GDP in 1992 corresponds to that of OECD countries. Its relative enrollment, however,
is only about one-half or one-third that of the OECD countries:



Annex 1
Page 9
Table 6. Educational expenditure as a percentage of GDP in selected countries by type of institution
.________________            (Public and private institutions combined), 1992
Tertiary education          All levels of education combined
USA                                             2.5                                          7.0
Japan                                           0.8                                          4.8
Denmark                                         1.3                                          6.7
France                                          1.0                                          5.9
Germany                                         1.0                                          4.9
Ireland                                         1.4                                          5.7
Netherlands                                     1.4                                          5.0
Spain                                          0.9                                           5.2
United Kingdom                                  0.8                                          ....
Finland                                         1.9                                          7.9
Country mean                                    1.4                                          6.1
OECD total                                      1.7                                          6.1
Hungary (1992)                                  11_ 167.3
Hungary (1993)                                  1.1_                                         6.6
Source: Education at a Glance, OECD Indicators, Paris, 1995 (p. 73), OECD 1996 (p. 62)
30.    Furthermore, the end of the demographic boom (a result of the strict abortion laws of the Stalinist,
early 1950s) of the 1970s means that the size of the respective age cohort is shrinking, further skewing
comparisons.
31.     1992 OECD indicators show that in Hungary, relative expenditure per student in tertiary
education is five times greater than the expenditure per primary school student and nearly five times that
of secondary students, which compared to other OECD countries (at 2.2 and 1.7 times on average) is very
high: 1993 indicators show a moderate decrease in relative expenditure per tertiary student.
Table 7. Relative expenditure per student by level of education (primary = 100) in selected countries,
1992
Early childhood    Primary education   Secondary education  Tertiary education
education
USA                                      69                  100                 115                  212
Japan                                    85                  100                 110                  336
Belgium                                  78                  100                 215                  275
Denmark                                  145                 100                 129                  181
France                                   90                  100                 175                  236
Ireland                                  97                  100                 156                  410
Netherlands                               87                 100                  129                 340
Spain                                   103                  100                 137                  185
United Kingdom                           59                  100                 141                  305
Austria                                  67                  100                 150                  160
Finlwid                                 148                  100                 127                  226
Sweden                                  128                  100                 110                  149
Country mean                             97                  100                 142                  251
OECD total                               86                  100                 128                  227
Hungary (1992)                           88|                 100                 128                  523
Hungary                                  86                  100                 105                  323
Source: Education at a Glance, OECD Indicators, Paris, 1995 (p. 99), OECD 1996 (p. 73)



Annex 1
Page 10
32.    Underfinancing of development and capital costs. Recent cuts in public expenditures on higher
education, exacerbating the already poor condition of buildings and facilities, resulted in a low level of
developmental financing. The 1996 Amendment to the Law on Higher Education regulates some aspects
of asset management of HEIs; it stipulates that donated and inherited assets, gifts and contributions
received are tax-free, and any revenues generated from these assets can only be used for new development
(investment or reconstruction) and restructuring. Data for the last five years shows that of the total state
budgetary expenditure on HE, investments accounted for only about 3% up until 1994, and although since
then it has risen, the percentage by 1996 is still only 7.6 % (lagging still behind student support at about
I 0%):
Table 8. Total state budgetary expenditures to higher education (bill HUF), Hungary, 1991-96
= _________________________ _      1991     1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
Expenditure                               56.2    62.2   73.5   91.5   82.9   93.0
Investment                                 1.4     1.4    2.8    2.7    4.8    7.1
Proportion of investment, as %             2.5     2.3    3.8    3.0    5.8    7.6
Financial support to students              4.1     5.5    6.7    7.6    8.4    9.3
Proportion of student support as % of      7.3     8.8    9.1      8.3   10.1  10.0*
total expenditure
Source: MKM
*Counting support for dormitory students and for textbooks, the level of support to students is 13% of
total expenditures
33.    Traditionally high unit costs occurred for various reasons: (a) fragmented institutional network,
and fragmentation within institutions (resulting in redundancies in educational-organizational units), (b)
the dominance of academic considerations in higher education management, as opposed to financial
considerations, (c) low staff: students ratios, due to the lack of elaborate and independent institutional
employment policies, (d) costly teaching practices such as high number of class hours per week, high
proportion of seminars, little independent or self-designed study, (e) costly, overspecialized undergraduate
training, providing from 350 to 400 majors, (f) low level of institutional income and (g) old, run-down
buildings which are expensive to maintain.
34.    Distinguishing Historical Characteristics.
*  Low enrollment rates
*  Rigid training and diploma structure
*  Specialized programs
*  Central planning system
*  Selectivity and elitism
*  Fraigmentation of institutions
*  Sectorial supervision
*  Incremental financing system
*  Underfinancing of development and capital costs
*  High unit costs
B. CHANGES IN THE 1980S AND 1990S
Changes during the 1970s and 1980s
35.    Enrollment in the 1970s stagnated, as it did in other countries of the Socialist block. Capacities
as well as needs to serve industrial growth ran out of steam and so did most energies of innovation.
Manpower forecasts gradually lost importance in determining enrollment numbers. Neither central



Annex I
Page 1 1
planning nor market demands had a significant impact on higher education. From the mid 1970s on,
enrollment numbers were decided through a multi-level bargaining process among the MOF, the other
ministries supervising HEIs and the HEIs themselves, and incremental decision making de facto
reproduced inherited structures and structural inconsistencies.
36.   A Party Resolution of 1981 sought to break the stagnation by developing a coherent program
under an improved governmental structure and providing some limited autonomy for the institutions, and
even some democratic decision authority at the institutional level. The Resolution furthermore designed a
new development program continued by the Government in 1983. This Government program included
several elements still relevant in higher education today: rational governance; deregulation; legal
regulation of the status and selection of leaders, faculty members and students; and provision of special
autonomous status for certain (larger) institutions.
37.   The 1985 Law on Education defined universities and colleges as the basic higher education
institutions (while allowing some training programs, g. higher vocational programs, to be run by
institutions other than colleges or universities), and established a more monolithic and coherent authority
concentrated at the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, though, it did not establish the Higher
Educational Council defined by those drafting the legislation. The Law regulated the status and rights of
students (including their right to self-government), the participation of faculty members in institutional
decision making and the status, rights and authorities of institutional leaders.
38.   The main problem of the 1980s was the absence of efforts, capacities or funds for developing the
institutional and programmatic framework of higher education. Although the 1981 Party Resolution and
especially the subsequent work by expert committees identified many critical elements, including the
dominance of small and specialized institutions, lack of modularity and dominance of certain training
fields, there were no institutional or governmental capacities to initiate radical changes or implement
development plans. Typically, the Party Resolution was not even made public until 1986. Interestingly, it
was precisely the publication of this Resolution and the following discussions between various interest
groups, including students, which provided for the first time a more or less open debate and discussion of
higher education reform.
Changes of the 1990s
39.   Since 1990, the Hungarian higher educational system has gone through significant changes.
Important achievements are the following:
40.   Enrollment expansion. HE expanded greatly in the 1990s, with a doubling of full-time students
from 1985 to 1996:
Table 9. Full-time HE enrollment, Hungary, 1985-1996
Year      1985  l 1990      1991  l  1992  l 1993  l 1994  l  1995         1995/96
Thousand  0   64.2      76.6     83.21    92.3    103.71  116.41      129.51     141.6
students
Source: Statistical Bulletin. Higher Education, 1995/96
41.   The proportion of the 18-22 year age cohort admitted to HE rose from 10% before 1990 to 17% in
1996. The goal for 2000 is 25 % and 30% for 2005.
42.   Increased institutional autonomy. The 1990 Act (No 23.) amended the 1985 Law on Education to
conform to some of the new political principles of the emerging post-Communist system, and
consequently a major part of previous legal restrictions was rescinded. The Amendment provided further



Annex 1
Page 12
deregulation and institutional autonomy. It gave the right to HEIs to determine volumes and structures of
admissions, and to nominate professors and rectors, to be confirmed by the President. (From 1951
through the 1990 Act, rectors had been nominated by the government on the basis of a recommendation
by thie Minister of Education) The Law also allowed the establishment of non-public higher educational
institutions.
43.   Until 1990, the Ministry of Education had broad overall authority over organizational issues,
including determining the general duties of the universities, the functions and duty of the university and
faculty leaders, the bodies of the universities and faculties, their composition, jurisdiction, the types of
educational-organizational units, their composition and legal status, the jurisdiction of their leaders, the
principles of curriculum, the function of curriculum and programs and the procedure for their creation,
and the list and structure of administrative units. Typically, the ministries had general and unspecified
rights to issue orders, re-examine and possibly dismiss institutional decisions and actions, including those
of leaders and councils as well, that were considered contrary to state interests or general educational
policy principles.
44.   Since 1969, the supervising ministries had retained the right to participate in meetings of
institutional councils, observe lectures, examinations, and gatherings regarding the educational and
research activities of universities, examine documents, and even arrange hearings with university people.
These rights were generally minimized in 1990 to controlling the legality of public institutions, but, even
this lijmited authority recalled the hierarchical legal relationship between governmental agencies and
institutions.
45.   A Governmental Decree of 1990 legalized most actions that were in common practice during the
previous two years, including the elimination of Marxist ideology from the curriculum, and limiting the
jurisdictions of the supervising ministries in organizational and personnel issues and in determining
curriculum and educational requirements. The new Act and the new GD tried to establish the first
guarantees of institutional autonomy in higher education, but did not fully satisfy the newly assertive
participants of an emerging higher educational policy arena. Yet the Act rescinded almost one-third of the
previouas regulations, opening the way for new revisions and possibly new statutory actions governing
institutional control.
July 1993 Law on Higher Education
46.   Consolidation under MKM. The 1990 Law left the power of supervising ministries untouched.
Even in 1992, the Ministry of Education supervised 33, the Ministry of Agriculture 6, the Ministry of
Social Welfare 5, the Ministry of Defense 4, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce I and the Ministry of
Interior 2, HEIs. This shared system of governance was abolished by the 1993 Law on Higher Education,
and a single supervisory power was delegated to the Ministry of Culture and Education. The first unified
budget came into force on January 1, 1995. The Law mandates that the Ministry shall limit its legal
supervisory role; conduct strategic planning and preparatory work on education policy making; approve
the creation and abolition of new faculties and monitor the efficient use of central resources. The MKM is
to work closely with MOF, which prepares the guidelines for the annual state budget.
47.   Establishment of intermediary institutions. The creation in the 1993 Law of new buffer
organizations such as the Hungarian Accreditation Committee (MAB) and the Higher Education Scientific
Council (FIT) brought a second level of central administration, with consultative and professional
decision-making purposes. Members of these agencies are appointed by the Prime Minister on the
recommendation of the Minister of Education and Culture, and they function quasi-independently as
adjuncts to the government. According to the law, the FTT is a proposal-making, decision-preparing and
opinion-giving body. It assists in matters concerning priorities in development programs and scientific
research carried out in HEIs, national competitions at HEIs financed by the state, establishment and



Annex 1
Page 13
abolishment of courses, faculties and entire HEIs, state recognition of non-state HEIs, distribution of
budgetary support for HEIs, student numbers annually in HE, amount of student support. FTT has
twenty-one members who are mandated by the Prime Minister for a period of three years. The chairman
of the FTT is the Minister of Culture and Education; seven members are delegated by the Government,
eight members by HEIs. The remaining six members (one member each) are delegated by the scientific
research institutes, the HAS, the local authorities, the employers, the professional associations and the
employees' interest representation bodies. (But cf. "July 1996 Amendments to the Law" below for
modifications regarding FTT membership.)
48.   The MAB was created for the ongoing supervision of the standard of education and scientific
activity in higher education. (The interim MAB had been already established in November 1992, with the
urgent purpose of accrediting the nascent postgraduate programs at universities). Members of the MAB
are also mandated by the Prime Minister for a period of three years, half of them representatives of HEIs
and half of them representatives of the scientific research institutes. There must be foreign specialists
among the members. The MAB decides in what field and which university may conduct Ph.D. training.
The Committee expresses opinions concerning the establishment or recognition of a university or college,
the establishment or abolition of field of studies, requirements for qualification and the doctoral or
habilitation regulations of a university. At least every eight years, the Committee is to assess the standard
of education and research activity in each HEI.
49.   Ph D -granting authority restored to the universities. The Higher Education Law of 1993 - based
on international experience and the traditions of Hungarian higher education - restored the right of
universities to provide doctoral education and to award the doctoral (Ph.D.) degree. The Hungarian
Accreditation Committee guaranties the quality of doctoral programs. Doctoral education, which lasts
three years, is in progress at 19 universities with 2361 full-time students (as of May 1996). The freedom
of scientific research and the autonomy of institutions of higher education are also ensured by the Law.
50.   Establishment of basis for normative financ. The 1993 Law has created the basis for a new,
mostly formula-driven finance system for HE. HEIs are to collect their income from (a) the state budget,
(b) other sub-systems of the public finances, (c) tuition fees and other charges to students, (d) basic
activities as well as from entrepreneurial activity, (e) donations, and (f) state wealth, or own wealth
acquired on the basis of a contract or as a donation. The financial resources for functioning, operating and
development must be planned as state budgetary allocations, and/or in the different funds operated by the
state. The norms are mainly determined by numbers of students in the various disciplines, and HEIs can
use their budgets without restrictions. The six state allocation headings are the following: student
allocation, training allocation, facilities maintenance allocation, program financing allocation, research
allocation and development allocation. The aim of this support scheme is to distribute state budgetary
resources in proportion to HEIs' performance, to harmonize the capacity of central budget and the total
budgetary requirement of HE, to regulate the training structure of HE according to social-economic needs,
and to improve the cost effectiveness of HE. This finance model is partly the device for the allocation of
money among HEIs, and it partly defines the state support needs of the HE system.
51.   The creation of the legal basis of tuition and cost recovery. The 1993 Law mandated that
students, for the first time, must pay tuition and other fees if participating in HE. The amount of tuition
was left to be determined by a Government Decree in the case of state HEIs and by the Regulation of
HEIs in the case of non-state HEIs. This decree, however, did not come into effect until 1995. It set a
low amount of state tuition, and allowed HEIs to charge fees other than tuition only for services which are
not related to program requirements and to the fulfillment of academic obligations. The 1993 law also
called for the introduction of a state guaranteed student loan system, and for personal income-tax
exemption for a definite amount of tuition fees.



Annex 1
Page 14
52.   Student acquisition of influence within HEIs. According to the law, the governing body of each
HEI is the institution council, of which at least one quarter (and one third at the most) should be
representatives of the students. A student union, whose members are elected by the students, must operate
as part of the self-government of each HEI. The student union has important additional rights, including a
role in admission and entrance examination issues; optional subjects and seminars, as well as invitation of
outside teaching staff; evaluations of teaching staff; management of student dormitories and management
of the study, stipend and support affairs of students.
53.   Untouched higher management of HEIs. The 1993 Law did not create the institutions of president
and board of trustees for universities, and thus the institutional councils, whose members are mainly
professors, make the main decisions. The president of this council remained the rector (also a professor)
of the: university, appointed and/or dismissed by the President of the Republic as recommended by the
council and the Minister of Culture and Education.
54.   1994 Law on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (HAS) This law made the HAS an
independent, legal, self-governing entity, an "organization of public law" which owns its property. The
research institutes of the HAS operate on state property, are autonomous, and are governed by the 30-
member "Council of Academic Research Units. " The Academy can no longer award scientific degrees,
but only the title of "Doctor of the Academy of Sciences" whichi is necessary for HAS membership. HAS
institutes are to cooperate with universities autonomously.
55.   The "Bokros package" of 1995. In 1995, following a serious fiscal crisis, then-Finance Minister
Bokros introduced a set of measures restricting money out-flow, devaluing the Hungarian currency,
stimulating exports and limiting imports, as well as radically restricting the state budget of certain public
services including HE. At first, the Minister initiated a program of reducing the number of staff at HEIs
by approximately 20%; This proved, however, to be an intervention in the autonomy of HEIs, and the
Constitutional Court thus ruled that the program was contrary to the existing laws. Bokros then
announced that allocations for the salaries of staff would be cut by 20%, and each institution should make
its own decision how to implement the 20% cut. The "Bokros package" also introduced the tuition fee.
1995 P'arliamentary Resolution
56.   The 1993 Law on Higher Education required that a future law on the development of HE be
enacted, accelerating integration of HEIs and securing financial resources. The government later decided
that development of higher education could be handled by the somewhat more limited legal force of a
Governmental Resolution (GR). Presumably, enacting a Resolution appeared to be a faster and perhaps
easier process than to enact a new law. The GR certainly created less of a public and parliamentary
debate. The GR aimed at providing a more proactive program, counterbalancing the effect of budgetary
constraints and restrictive measures brought by the government's economic program. It defined most of
the agenda of ensuing higher education policy debates. The GR called for sector neutrality, freedom of
founding institutions and continuous training. It defined the goals of HE development in the following
main points:
*  increasing student numbers;
*  creating a flexible HE system with permeability among levels, and correspondingly, introduction of a
unified national credit system;
*  assuring an impartial role for the state and allocation of financial resources based on quality not
owniership, thus spurring competition in the development of the academic marketplace;
*  increasing the efficiency of the HE system by the increased economic independence of HEIs and by
the mobilization of non-state resources (including tuition and other sources);
*  modernizing and professionalizing HEI management along with more consideration given to labor
market needs;
*  increasing support to the cooperation of HEIs and research institutes;



Annex 1
Page 15
* increasing independent work of students within their HE studies;
* standardizing the qualification system and workload of instructors, along with revision of the
conditions of remuneration and promotion of HE teachers.
July 1996 Amendment to the Law
57.   Integration of postsecondary vocational training into HE. The 1996 Law created a more vertically
structured training system which ensures transparent permeability among the different educational levels.
A major step towards this was the integration of postsecondary vocational training into the structure of
higher education. The 1996 Law declares that higher education institutions may conduct accredited
higher vocational training, and issue certificates in accordance with requirements prescribed in the
National Qualification Register, if students have the possibility to continue their studies at the college or
university level. One third of credits acquired in higher vocational training programs must be accepted at
the college or university level, and the same rule applies to transferring college or university credits to
higher vocational studies. Thus, there is clear legal regulation for increased transfer between the
following four levels: (a) accredited higher vocational education; (b) college education (undergraduate
college and postgraduate college programs); (c) university education (undergraduate university programs);
(d) postgraduate education (postgraduate university, doctoral and DLA programs). The Amendment sets
the duration of each level, allowing: a minimum of two years for accredited higher vocational programs,
three to four years for college programs, four to five years for university programs, one to three years for
postgraduate programs, and three years for doctoral programs.
58.   Modifications conceming the MAB. The 1996 Law modified the composition and size of the
MAB, raising its membership to 30 people, of which 15 are representatives of HEIs, 10 are
representatives of the scientific research institutes and 5 are of professional bodies. According to the law,
the MAB is an independent body whose decisions cannot be overruled by the Minister of Culture and
Education. The MAB is to complete its first evaluation of all HEIs by the year 2000, and only those
satisfying its requirements are allowed to issue state-recognized diplomas. An I 1-member International
Advisory Board helps the work of the MAB, whose members are invited by the president of the MAB.
The Board evaluates the accreditation decisions made by the MAB and helps to match them with
international practice and requirements of accreditation processes. They have to meet at least once a
year. The Committee also expresses its opinion concerning the regulations of the application of the credit
system and on the operation of foreign higher education institutions in Hungary.
59.   Early in 1997, a proposal for a new ministerial decree was introduced regulating the structure and
operational procedures of the MAB. Accordingly, the Minister of Culture and Education has the right of
supervision over the MAB, but, the Minister's right of supervision may not be extended either to
professional concerns nor to quality-evaluations made by the MAB. In order to assure the participation of
all fields of science and humanities, the MAB can invite participants from unrepresented fields as
discussants. Every three years at least half of the committee must be changed and attention must be paid
that delegates from every part of Hungary representing all scientific fields and all type of institutions take
part in the MAB's work. Members of the FTT, the to-be established Credit Council, Advisory Board
(Curatorium) of Higher Education Development Fund or the Office of Higher Education Grants or any
other curatoria which deal with issues of higher education may not take part in the work of the MAB. In
each field of science the MAB has at least one expert-committee and its president can be the member of
the MAB.
60.   Modifications concerning FTT. As a governmental advisory, and not Ministerial, body, all the
major portfolios are represented in the FTT. As a result, it worked slowly, had a burdensome procedure
and a reactive style and did not establish strategic programs. Since the 1996 Amendment to the Law,
efforts have been made to define the FTT more in a strategic and policy-making context rather than to
limit its role to strictly professional matters. At present, a new, and according to the expectation, more
effective FIT structure is emerging. According to this new structure, the FTT has two major sub-



Annex 1
Page 16
committees: the Financial Subcommittee and the Strategic (Training and Research) Subcommittee. These
subcoimmittees work out large-scale strategic plans for HE and advise the Minister in determining
admission numbers and analyzing institutional applications for state-funded admission numbers. These
numbers are then forwarded to the state budget negotiations.
61.    The Law also mandates that ten of the MAB's members should be experts elected by HE, an
additional ten members should be representatives of the users' sphere (professional chambers, employers,
scientific bodies such as HAS and research institutes), and of the local governments. One member of the
Council is sent by the Minister. The president of the Council is no longer the Minister but elected from
among the members. The law states that proportional representation of non-state HEIs must be ensured in
the Council.
62.    Credit system. The Amendment provides the legal framework for the establishment of a unified
credit system to stabilize the structure of four-level training. The Amendment mandates the creation of
the National Credit Council, whose coordination is delegated under the Secretariat of the FTT. The Credit
Council's task is to work out a national credit system and implement it in 1997. It is the FTT's
responsibility to prepare a new decree to adapt broader definitions of academic requirements by
discipline. The work on defining minimum requirements for several disciplines is already under way.
63.   Integration of institutions into multi-purpose universities. The Amendment also creates the legal
framework for the integration of institutions, detailing the regulation of organizational structure, operation
and finance of so-called higher educational associations which can function as the main step towards full
integration. The Law states that higher education associations are transitional organizations to full merger
into single multi-faculty universities approved by the Parliament within two years of the founding charter.
The basic conditions of establishing such associations are demonstrating the feasibility of cooperation in
terms of (a) distance, (b) complementary activities, (c) elimination of organizational parallelisms of
educational, research and other activities, and (d) establishment of mutual economic and managerial
leadership. The rights and responsibilities of associations are exercised by the senate and the full-time
president of the association with full responsibility for finances. Further requirements of forming
associations are to be specified by a Government Decree.
64.    To date, real institutional integration has not taken place on a large scale; rather, loose
partnerships have developed mostly in order to lobby for grants. These loose cooperation schemes have
not brought sufficient results in joint administration, curricula, interdisciplinary research, or in
eliminating redundancies among staff and facilities.
65.    Salary increase for selected full-time teachers. The Act creates a competitive scholarship system
for the best teachers with Ph.Ds. This "Sz6chenyi Professorial Scholarship" is awarded to 500 teachers
each year, and may be won for a period of four years; its value equals five times the current minimum
wage. The scholarship is awarded by an advisory board assembled by the Minister of Culture and
Education. The restructuring of staff is still problematic, since full-time instructors are civil servants with
highly secure employment conditions (with centrally determined salary scales and career paths).
According to the law, a substantial and age-sensitive compensation has to be paid to dismissed academics,
which makes rationalizing very expensive for HEls. The lack of a merit pay system and meaningless
student evaluations makes financial differentiation of teaching staff difficult.



Annex 1
Page 17
11. ISSUES IN HUNGARIAN HIGHER EDUCATION
A.    Issue 1: Lack of Relevance to the Needs of a Market Economy
Introduction
66.   Labor market and HE in the planned economy. Labor market needs under the command economy
were planned in great detail and far in advance. The political system sought to predict the required skills
and jobs for the whole economy, which had critical consequences for the higher education system. The
"production" of the required labor force was assigned to higher education institutions, based on very
specific directives and prescribed numbers for each institution. As a result, HEIs were structured to
provide narrowly specialized programs from start to finish, and were unable to respond flexibly to other
social needs (e , student needs). Upon graduation, HE graduates were centrally placed into jobs, not
taking into consideration individual preferences in location or type of workplace.
67.   Moving towards a market economy. Since the 1989 turnover in Hungary's political system, not
only the country's social but also its economic needs have changed drastically. Since the 1 990s, about 1,4
million jobs ceased to exist, a third of those who lost their jobs became unemployed, and two thirds
became economically inactive Moving towards a market economy, as well as towards European
integration, presents the higher education system with new and challenging tasks. Higher education
policy-making should seek to transform the higher education system in such a way that it will be able to
satisfy newly emerging needs of society. Such needs include graduates with less specialized skills and
knowledge, making them more adaptable to quick changes in the work environment. Teaching broader
basic skills and preparation for life-long learning would result in more responsiveness to labor market
demands from the part of the students, who, in this way, could better update or modify their skills
according to specific job requirements. It not only means introducing of new fields of study, but also
modifying or restructuring existing ones in a way that they provide less specialized skill so early, and
more opportunities for corrections or specialization after the point of entry into the labor market.
Problem 1: Rigid structure
68.   Structural problems. Higher education inherited a structure in which about 50 percent of students
went to universities and 50 percent to colleges. More than half (55%) of full-time students are still
enrolled in university programs, despite several developmental strategies in the last six years to develop
short-term education and thus boost the role of colleges. Between 1990 and 1995 a similar increase in
enrollment at universities and colleges occurred. A very high percentage of students spend 5 to 6 years
studying for their first diplomas, which are equivalent to master's degrees. These lengthy programs
specialize studies from the very beginning, thus forcing students to specialize too early (even before entry
into the system). Change in specialization is only possible by starting over the entire program, given the
practical impossibility of transferring. The low proportion of short-term educational programs in the
higher education system also contributes to the problem in changing fields of study in response to changes
in labor market demand.
69.   Bottle-neck phenomenon. The so called "bottle-neck" phenomenon is present from the fifth grade
(age 10), when students may enroll in eight-year gymnasia. At age 14, pupils face three choices with
different consequences regarding their access to and direction within higher education. From the early
1950s, a great number of lower vocational schools with an apprenticeship feature (szakmunkaskepzo)
were founded in order to fulfill the rapidly growing needs of industry. This kind of school represents the
lowest level of post-primary education and does not prepare students for entering the tertiary level. In
fact, graduates of these schools, lacking a high school diploma, are not allowed to take entrance exams at
HEIs. At the next level, still within secondary education, there are vocational secondary schools
(szakkozdpiskola), which provide vocational training and a high school diploma. Since heavy
concentration on learning vocational skills lowers the level of general knowledge of students in this type



Annex 1
Page 18
of schkool, graduates mostly tend to be able to go into lower quality HEIs within their specialized
vocation. (At best, a graduate of a technical vocational secondary school would be able to go into a small
technical college). Graduates of these vocational schools cannot compete well with students coming from
the third, academic type of high schools (gimnaizium) where the main purpose is to prepare for higher
education. Thus, basically at age 14 children (or rather their families) are to decide not only about
chances to but also specialization within higher education.
70.    Compartmentalization owing to faculty and departmental structure. Rigid departmental and
faculty structures within HEIs hinder the possibilities for interdisciplinary studies and for courses with the
cooperation of several departments. Among HEIs, cooperation is even more difficult, and incentives for
cross-collaboration are virtually non-existent in the present system. In the typical course of study at the
universities and colleges, students take single or double majors. During their studies, they have very little
opportunity to take courses in different disciplines and can take very few elective courses or choose
among various specializations. Due to the lack of a national credit system, individual case-based
authorizations apply when students wish to take courses at institutions other than their own. The fact that
there are some 350-400 majors at Hungarian HEIs shows that the degree of over-specialization is very
high. Often sub-specialties run as separate programs, or the difference between two programs is minimal.
71.    Small, specialized institutions. Another serious obstacle to broadening the content of education is
the existence of small and narrowly specialized higher education institutions which cannot offer the
prograrn variety required in a changing market environment. These small institutions operate
independently from each other, and thus capacities cannot be "pooled together" with the cooperation of
other institutions. Limitations in terms of teaching staff and budgetary resources prevent these institutions
from being competitive and sought-after by students, as well as from being cost-effective and being able
to satisfy students' individual interests. For example, in the case of a non-Budapest based teacher training
college, it is hard to recruit highly qualified, flexible teaching faculty who would be able to teach courses
taking into consideration actual student demand, such as the .latest computer applications in the
classroom). Fragmented teaching resources make the education process not only expensive but also lower
quality than required. Further consequences include rigid curricula, low mobility of students, and low use
of infrastructural capacity.
72.    Lack of articulation among levels. Although the 1996 Amendment of the Law on Higher
Education provides the appropriate legal framework for the establishment of a unified, national credit
system to stabilize the four-level training, at the moment, there is still no clear articulation among the
levels. Lack of a transparent transfer system results in lack of flexibility and permeability within the
system. Students cannot now transfer to a different program without practically starting it from the
beginning, and furthermore, the vague relationship between degrees and diplomas cf. above in section on
historical background part) prevents students from being able to move between levels. For example, from
a college program, there is no way to transfer to a university program and transfer the credits acquired
thus far. Entering a doctoral program is similarly only possible for university graduates, but not for
college graduates. The implementation of the 1996 Law will increase transfer among the levels of
accredited higher vocational, college, university and postgraduate education.



Annex 1
Page 19
Problem 2: Lack of Demand Responsiveness
73.   Besides structural rigidities, lack of responsiveness is also a crucially important problem of the
higher education system. Lack of significant changes in enrollment reflects the inability of the system to
correlate student and market demands. This concerns not only the low level of overall student numbers,
but also the traditional distribution of enrollments among fields and institutions. To a large degree,
disproportional and/or dysfunctional enrollments in certain disciplines still exist despite labor market
projections or heavy demand by applicants to the contrary.
74.    Fields having the strongest and weakest labor market demand. Labor market projections for the
next decade predict that about 40% of higher education graduates will need university, about a third
college, and a quarter higher vocational type of training. According to the figures in the following two
tables, however, the university and the college sectors have expanded to almost the same degree in the last
five years, by 52% and 51%, respectively. The 1996 integration of accredited, higher vocational programs
into the HE system is an important step towards more realistic provision of such needs.
75.   Labor projections predict that based on today's enrollment figures, in fifteen years, the biggest
deficiencies are likely to occur in economics, business, management, law and public administration,
whereas training surpluses would occur in the agricultural sector and in the teaching profession. For the
last ten years, decreasing demand is observable in teacher training, technical and agricultural programs
Even in recent years, though, outdated or under-demanded programs are rarely closed down voluntarily,
instead, they are only terminated when HEIs can no longer sustain them. Since state money comes according
to enrollment numbers, and students with weak results at entrance exams might still want to apply to
unpopular, and therefore more easily accessible programs, many outdated programs survive.
76.   Enrollment figures (Ministry statistics) at universities for the last five years show the following
picture:
Table 10. Percentage increase in enrollments, by field of study at the university level, Hungary,
1990/1995
l 1990/91     1991/92     1992/93     1993/94      1994/95
humanities                         100          126        168         218           265
religious studies                  100          110        200         193           224
economics                          100          105        120         154           163
natural sciences                   100          103        131          140          158
state admin. & law                 100          111        119         129           143
art and physical education         100          107        112          124          131
technical                          100          108        115          117          127
agriculture   &    veterinary      100          103        113         112           120
medicine
medicine & pharmacy                100          119        116          114          113
total university enrollment        100          111        126          138          152
Source: Statistical Bulletin. Higher Education, 1990-1996
77.    These figures indicate growth of more than 50% at the university level with respect to enrollment
in the humanities, in religious studies, in economics and in the natural sciences. In today's post-
Communist Hungarian society, evolving towards a market economy, the latter group of study fields is
obviously in high demand. The first group, humanities, includes traditionally high-prestige fields, which
either provide useful and flexible knowledge profitable in a changing labor market (such as foreign
languages), or provide education in traditionally highly respected fields g, in history, philosophy, etc.,).



Annex 1
Page 20
Despite high demand, however, the increase of enrollment in law and state administration was below
50%. And surprisingly, despite the strong need for decreased enrollment in agriculture and the technical
fields, enrollment increased by 20%.
78.   Table 11 indicates that the picture is even more contradictory to desired trends:
Table 11. Percentage increase in enrollments, by field of study at the college level, Hungary, 1990/1995
1990/91    1991/92    1992/93     1993/94      1994/95
agriculture                       100         103        125          222         263
technical                         100         111        126          151         189
health care                       100         117        134          155         168
businesss                         100         108        125          124         163
primary school teaching           100         108        113          126         133
secondary school teaching         100         102        101          122         127
military & police                 100          79         88          102         125
state administration            100           109        1 08         111 119
r,ursery_                  100         101         97          III         118
total college enrollment          100      105           113          132         151
Source: MKM
79.   In colleges, the highest increase in enrollment (163%) took place in the field of agricultural
studies, clearly the field most in need of downsizing. A 89% increase can be observed in technical
studies, a field which should similarly be reduced. College training in business grew, but only by 63%,
while state administration training increased only by 19%. In general, instead of targeted enrollment
growth, all fields have expanded, even those which are not marketable. These examples show that despite
the obvious need for contraction or elimination of programs, there is a "self-sustaining" characteristic in
the system which does not allow reduction of capacities (and therefore keeps alive unnecessary programs
at the expense of the public).
80.   It has to be taken into consideration that despite enrollment increases over the last several years, a
large measure of demand remains unsatisfied. Thus, over-demand also occurs because the inherited
higher education system has not been opened up to the desired degree yet. (For example, according to
OECD data, 11% of the 18-21 age groups was enrolled in tertiary education in Hungary in 1993,
compared to the OECD country mean of 21.5%. The shortfall was due in part to the absence of "non-
university" tertiary educational opportunities in Hungary). Individual demand can be followed in Table
12, which presents percentages of over-applications by type of institution:



Annex 1
Page 21
Table 12. Percentage of applications received above the admittance quotas,
by type of institution in 1992, 1995 & 1996, Hungary
Type of Institution         1992            1995             1996
humanities                             304              346             260
teacher training                       209              230             143
economics                              353              247             251
natural sciences                       685              229             168
state admin. & law                     507             369              426
art                                    810              765             601
technical                              156              139             124
agriculture                            223              193             186
health care                            255              227             255
military                               280              276             217
total                                  246              237             202
Source: Polonyi (1996)
81.   The figures indicate that student demand corresponds to labor demands, with the most popular
fields in law, humanities, economics, and the least demanded technical, agricultural and teacher training.
According to Ministry data, from the academic years of 1989/90 to 1995/96, the proportion of admitted
students and applicants to higher education only increased from 43% to 48%.
82.   The main reasons for the lack of demand responsiveness can be characterized by the following:
83.   Over-centralized control of enrollments. Despite increases in student numbers in higher education
in the last five years, enrollment structure has not changed significantly, which has resulted in the
preservation of the old, outdated allocation system. The FTT has been the agency monopolizing
enrollment allocations to specific HEIs, and several sources claim2 that it does not have the sufficient
capacities for this task mainly because of its particular representational composition. This and the lack of
a transparent strategy on educational development seem to indicate that higher education development
policy is determined by the political power of individual institutions instead of objective demands.
84.   Demand responsiveness is also slowed down by the quite bureaucratic and cumbersome process
of approval of new programs and institutions. The two main agencies responsible are the MAB and the
FTT, and the reasons behind their slowness include overwork, backlog and in the case of the FTT,
powerful representatives of the established academia who prevent or slow down approvals of competing
institutions or programs. The MAB reported a serious lack of financial capacities, which makes it very
difficult to make use of the appropriate Hungarian and foreign experts. (Outside experts are paid a
symbolic amount, and thus it is hard to find the experts who are able or willing to work for so little.)
Despite the measures of the 96/1995. (VIII. 24) government decree which says that the accreditation
committee must reach a decision within 120 days of the submission of the request, significant delays
occur.
2 For example, Timar (1996) cites that both in the case of 1996 and 1997 HE enrollment numbers, The FTT
accepted the proposed numbers from the colleges and universities, because " The FTT did not have any
background studies based on which it could propose different numbers than the ones sponteneously formulated."



Annex 1
Page 22
85.   Lack of student choice in financial allocations. At the institutional level, year-to-year enrollment
figures are set according to the institution's momentary will and perceived capacities which do not reflect
adequately student choice and the needs of the economy at the national level. The proposed numbers by
BEIs are accepted at the higher levels (first by the FTT and then in the Ministry) without making
significant changes, since the FTT is composed of powerful representatives of HEIs. Thus, "usefulness"
of the activities of HEIs is not a factor in determining state support. Nation-wide guidelines on state-
supported enrollment by broad fields would be a more responsive way to allocate money.
86.   Based on MKM data on application and admittance figures in higher education for 1996, student
over-application to available places was highest in art (600%), law and state administration (426%),
humanities (260%), health care (255%) and economics (251%). The fewest applications (proportionally
to admittance quotas) were received in the fields of technology (124%), teacher training (143%), natural
sciences (168%) and agriculture (186%).
87.    Monopoly of the public sector. Private, non-religious education tends to be more responsive to
labor market signals. Foundation colleges offer training in highly marketable fields, such as computer
science, business management, and foreign languages. However, non-religious private education
accounts for only 5% of total enrollment. Despite the remarkable speed of enrollment growth in the non-
state higher education sphere, by the 1996/97 academic year, student enrollment was still about 10 percent
of total higher education enrollment. Among non-state HEIs, the fastest growth can be found in the five
private foundation colleges which enroll as many students as the 30 church-owned universities and
colleges together. Significant competition among the state and non-state sector is missing for several
reasons: (1) church-run HEIs dominantly focus on religious and theological training; (2) traditional
churches have a relatively strong political power to get substantial state allocations from the government;
and (3) so far only the private foundation colleges charge "real" tuition fees ranging from HUF 60,000 to
75,000 per semester (about 200 percent of the monthly average salary), which in theory puts them in a
disadvantageous situation as far as state tuition is still HUF 2,000 per month. Since foundation colleges
offer training in highly marketable fields, they equip their graduates with profitable and flexible skills
which will result in high salary returns on the changing labor market3. Significant increase of state tuition
would create a more competitive system in which the level of responsiveness to demand would be
significantly raised. A slow but gradual development of the private sector in relevant fields is reflected in
the fact that according to the Ministry, 18% of the total number of students admitted to economics courses in
1995 were admitted to private colleges, and 25% of all business courses are offered by private schools
today.
88.    Constraints imposed by the state on development of private education. There are several
constraints on the development of private higher education. These include: (a) The procedure of state
recognition is quite long and bureaucratic; (b) decreasing age cohorts create a situation in which state
HEIs look upon non-state HEIs as competitors for students, and this interest can be well represented
through the FTT; (c) the lack of a non-profit law; and (d)the lack of tax incentives which would stimulate
private investment into the private education system. One example is the case of a private business
college whose curriculum was approved by the MAB early 1995 but the FTT refused to approve the
institution. Following an appeal to the Minister and a second application procedure, the FTT finally
reversed its opinion and the college received official approval in the summer of 1996.
89.   Lack of teaching staff in heavily demanded fields. Recent cuts in the number of teachers, as well
as the introduction of new programs, have resulted in shortages in some fields of study where the teaching
load can be as high as 16-18 hours a week. Such fields where the heaviest demand occurs are economics,
management and law. Because of serious problems at the structural level of the system (e.g., very little
3 One exception is the Peto Institute and College of Physiotherapy, which despite being a private foundation
college, still charges the amount of state tuition, and receives more than half of its budget from the state in return
the unique services and treatment it provides for motor-disabled children and adults.



Annex 1
Page 23
change in enrollment according to market needs, continuation of training in fields not in demand),
shortages of appropriate faculty occur in the demanded fields. In other words, the pool from which future
faculty can be selected does not reflect the real demand of the education market.
90.    Priority needs and changes required to achieve more responsiveness to labor market and student
demands.
Structural changes needed:
*  increase enrollment in fields highly demanded in a market economy: economics, business, law &
public administration, social/health services;
*  decrease enrollment in fields producing over-supply: medicine, teacher training, technical and
agricultural areas;
*  introduce new fields of study, interdisciplinary studies, more elective courses, and independent study;
* decrease the level of specialization at the level of programs, faculty and institutions as well;
*  increase the ratio of short-term, non-university and non-degree programs;
*  create transparent articulation among levels of training to assure permeability within the levels (full
credit system);
*  lessen monopoly of the public sector.
Needs to be met in order to boost demand responsiveness:
* assign more importance to student choice and demand;
*  decrease the over-centralized control of enrollments;
*  increase the role of student choice in financial allocations;
*  ease constraints imposed by the state on development of private education.
Issue 2: Low Efficiency in Use of Resources
Background.
91.   High public expenditure per student rate. Recent increases in enrollment figures and budget cuts
in 1995 have achieved a substantial reduction in unit recurrent costs, but these levels are still high in
comparison with other OECD countries and countries of Eastern Europe. In Table 13, OECD and MKM
indicators from 1995 show that in an international comparison, Hungarian participation in HE is about
half of that in other OECD countries, although, at very similar rates in terms of GDP and budget.



Annex 1
Page 24
Tabile 13. HE expenditures per student in selected OECD countries and in Hungary, 1995
Countries    Expenses relative    HE students in   HE public         HE public
to GDP         the 18-21 age    expenditures per   expenditures per
(%)             group           student       student, per capita
(%)            in USD           GDP (%)
USA                   2.5              38.8            11,800             52.0
Finland               1.9              15.4            8,650              59.7
Holland               1.4              20.1            8,720              51.5
Ireland               1.4                              7,270              56.9
Dennark               1.3              9.2             6,710              38.1
France                1.0              29.0            6,020              32.5
Ge=many               1.0              9.7             6,550              32.2
Spain                 0.9              22.8            3,770              29.4
UK                    0.8              18.0            15,060             95.2
Hun -arv              1.6              10.0            9,690              140.8
Hungary               1.1       I      11.0            5,189              86.4
Source: Education at Glance, OECD Indicators, Paris, 1995 and The Reform of the Central Budget in
Hungary, MOF, September 1995, OECD 1996 (p. 61-62, 71-72, 127)
92.   Consequently, the per student central budget rate or the GDP rate is two or three times higher than
in countries of highly developed economies. As indicated in Table 13, in Hungary HE public
expenditures per student in 1992 add up to 140% in terms of per capita GDP, whereas this figure ranges
from 30 to 60% (with the exception of the UK where it is as high as 95%). Although Hungary's public
expenditures on tertiary education per student relative to per capita GDP decreased from 140.8% in 1992
to 86.4% in 1993, the 1993 level is still substantially higher than that of other OECD countries. (In the
remaining 25 OECD countries with data for 1993, the level of public expenditures ranged from 27.1% to
75.40%, with a mean of 46.5%.)
93.   Variations in unit costs. The heritage of incremental financing is large variations among unit
costs for very similar training at different institutions. HEIs sought additional funding sources which
could built in to their recurring budgets. In addition, the political influence of institutions working in the
same field of study could vary to a great length. For example, in 1992, cost per student in law was very
different at various universities: 146 units at ELTE in Budapest, 73 at JPTE in Pecs, 80 at JATE in Szeged
and 89 at ME in Miskolc. Often it is the case that universities and colleges in Budapest have much higher
training costs than those located elsewhere in the country. (Budapest institutions tend to have greater
access to central authorities and thus support. Consequently the extent of over-staffing is more present in
Budapest. )
94.   The most important reasons for low cost efficiency in the system could be described as follows:
Problem 1: Legacy of the Past.
95.   Small average size of institutions. The fragmented institutional network consisting of small
average-size institutions is a significant part of the system's inheritance. Today there are 90 HEIs, 57
state and 33 non-state. HEIs are scattered all around the country (at 31 settlements); however, 15 of them
enroll only 7% of all students.
96.   The present distribution of students among higher education institutions is shown in Table 14:



Annex 1
Page 25
Table 14. Number of students and institutions in BE, Hungary, 1995
Number of students               Number of institutions
less than 300 *                        24
500-600                              13
1000-1500                             9
1500-2000                            11
2000-3000                             6
3000-4000                             8
over 4000                             2
over 5000                             2
over 8000                             2
over 12,000                            1
* Several institutions have less than 30 students.
Source: MKM
97.   Twenty-four institutions enroll fewer than 300, and only one university over 12,000 students.
More than half of HEIs (46) have fewer than 1,500 students. The average number of students per
university is still around 2600, and per college around 1600. It has to be noted that non-state, small-size
institutions also lower the average figures somewhat, i.e., state universities have 3000 students on average,
while non-state (church-run) universities only 630. In the case of colleges, the averages are 2600 and 510,
respectively. The rapid growth in non-state enrollment works against this tendency of small HEI size,
especially since it is not the number of non-state institutions which is growing so rapidly, but rather the
capacities of the existing, successful ones.
98.   Poor condition of buildings. As mentioned previously, buildings of HEIs had not been properly
maintained, and very little money was spent on them. By now this lack of investment in buildings has
severely exacerbated maintenance costs. Substantial amounts of money are needed to make facilities
adequate for teaching purposes, as well as to keep them running (i.e., huge energy bills, or repair costs).
Problem 2: Academic Organization and Teaching Programs.
99.   Fragmented institutional structures. Fragmentation is also present at lower faculty and
departmental levels. Atomized inner institutional structures result in redundant educational and structural
units, as well as in underutilized capacities and facilities. Inter-faculty cooperation in teaching and
research is rare, disregarding the possibility of significant savings in spending without loss in quality.
100.  Low-teacher-student ratio. Despite some improvement in the 1990s, the inherited, low teacher-
student ratios are still a big burden on the entire system. Table 15 provides data over time, in Hungary as
well as in some other Eastern European countries:



Annex 1
Page 26
Table 15. Number of students per instructor in some Eastern European countries,
1975-1988
-   Country             1975          1980            1985             1988
Hun=arv           7.16           5.82            5.34            5.37
Czechoslovakia        7.28          8.77           7.07             7.36
Poland            9.31          7.95            6.27            6.47
-   Bulgaria            9.67          6.92            7.24             7.43
Romania           11.70          13.21          12.33             -
Source: T. Melega, E. Sandor Kriszt, A magyar felsooktatas nemzetkozi o sszehasonlitasa (The Hungarian
Higher Education System from an International Perspective), in Magyar Felsooktatas (Hungarian Higher
Education), 1992/1.
101.  The ratio of instructors and students in the year proceeding the 1989 changes was 1:5, which was
about one-half to one-third that of Western European countries at the time. Estimates show that, in
theory, the present number of teachers in Hungaiy could teach 50-100% more students. The ratio for 1995
in an international comparison is shown in table 16 below:
Table 16. Full-time students per instructor
in some OECD countries and in Hungary, 1995
Countries          Full-time students per
instructor
USA                      15.8
| Holland                 13.9
Ireland                  15.0
Denmark                   29.3
France                   17.8
Germany                   10.7
Spain                    22.6
UK                      14.0
Hungary                   6.9*
Source: Education at Glance, OECD Indicators, Paris, 1995, the data for Hungary is from "Az
allamhaztartasi reform" (The Reform of the Central Budget), Hungarian Ministry of Finance, Budapest,
1995.
*This number in 1995 is 7. 2 according to the Central Statistical Office, see their publication "Public
Education and Higher Education," 1995/96, Budapest 1996.
102.  The ratio for 1996 is estimated at 8:1 (Ministry statistics, see Polonyi, A Review of the Economic
Parameters of Higher Education in Hungary) which is still very low, roughly half the number found in
OECD countries. According to estimates, the expansion of the education system while retaining old
staffing levels and class sizes by itself would imply a doubling of the cost of higher education.
103.  Staff management. Except in the case of professors, HEIs do not need any external approval to
appoint staff, provided the total budget for staff costs does not exceed the approved level. All HEI staff
are pubilic servants, and their legal status is based on the 1992 Law on Public Employees. This law makes
it very difficult to dismiss staff because severance costs are high, and because the terms and conditions of
employment do not clearly specify duties, there is no system for fonnal and systematic appraisal. In 1995,



Annex 1
Page 27
approximately 6000 staff members were dismissed throughout the higher education sector, as part of a
restrictive measure issued by MOF. These positions were, however, canceled by either not filling vacant
posts, or by retirements of those who were at retirement age already. Thus, staff redundancies were not
adequately targeted.
104.  Teaching patterns. Labor intensive teaching practices which require a high number of contact
hours are still typical of the system at the present, and contribute greatly to the high costs. Traditionally,
since teaching salaries were low, the number of teachers was increased to a degree which considerably
contributed to high unit costs. Such teaching practices are: high proportion of small group sessions,
seminars and oral examinations and high number of class hours per week. Table 17 below indicates the
high proportion of small group sessions and seminars, by type of HEIs:
Table 17. Average number of classes, number of lectures, seminars and small group sessions a week by
type of institution, Hungary, 1995
Type of institution   Average No. of    Lectures    Seminars   Small group sessions
classes per week    per week    per week      per week
Medical University             31.6            9.2        16.0             6.3
Agricultural Univ.             23.3           17.1         6.2             0.0
Technical Univ.                28.5            9.6        19.0             0.0
Univ. of Economics             20.5           14.1         6.4             0.0
Faculty of Law                 23.6           13.7         9.9             0.0
Faculty of Arts                16.7            6.7         6.6             3.5
Faculty of Sciences            25.3           11.7        10.7             3.0
Agricultural College           27.6           11.3        16.3             0.0
Technical College              27.6           11.3        16.3             0.0
College of Economics           21.2            8.3         9.8             3.1
Teacher Tr. College            42.9           13.0        25.5             4.4
Kinderg. & 1-4th grade         29.2            7.0        16.8             5.4
Teacher Tr. College                       I           I_I_I
Medical College                44.4           10.4        25.2             8.8
Seminar class (35 students), small group (8 students)
Source: MKM
105.  Early specialization. As mentioned above, the proportion of short-term programs is low, limiting
opportunities for students to change their course of studies, and forcing them to enroll in lengthy,
specialized programs early. The lack of basic, non-specialized courses prevents students from completing
some basic subjects before declaring a major course of study, which also forces students to select an area
of study earlier than is necessary and encourages excessive specialization. This early specialization can
often result in the need for correction in the direction of studies, or just the need for tailoring course work
to special interests, which can be made only with great difficulties or not at all (iLe., many students finish
their long program even though they know that they would rather study something else, thus wasting
resources and capacities both at the institutional and individual level). The dominance of long, degree
programs in the system is still present, and the longer university programs have a higher percentage of
classes than shorter college programs. Also, until a unified, national-level credit system is introduced,
flexibility in choices concerning courses, disciplines and institutions remains limited.
Problem 3: Administration: Lack of financial discipline
106.  Public money allocation is not based on performance indicators or requirements. Financial
support for higher education used to be allocated among institutions and faculties based on "historical
costs" (always based on last year's support) and political negotiations by rectors and program directors



Annex 1
Page 28
(which was heavily influenced by political connections, power relations and negotiating skills of
institutional leaders). Thus, national priorities or objective needs did not play a significant enough role in
the allocation system, making finances separate from performance or measurable indicators.
107.  Leadership of HEIs is academic-rather than management-oriented. One of the most important
issues in the transformation of higher education is institutional governance and administration. Higher
education management -- leaders and members of institutional councils -- is dominated by people of
academic and scientific merits, who tend to draw on their academic perspectives rather than economic
ones. Managerial abilities and knowledge (including human resources and financial management,
decision making) do not carry high importance in the selection process. Managers of HEIs who are
elected by their direct subordinates tend not to undertake rationalizing labor measures which might harm
their re-election chances.
108.  Management practices are often poor at the institutional level. This is true not only in terms of
bureaucratic procedures but also in terms of market consciousness. Student demand and satisfaction is not
monitored scrupulously; some evaluation is conducted but it does not have a serious role in faculty
evaluation. Professional PR and fundraising have not been developed yet.
109.  Teaching performance is unrelated to financial rewards. There is no central regulation or
definition of teaching hours per week for staff, and thus it is difficult to be fair in organizing teaching
schedules on the one hand, and to hold staff responsible according to defined categories on the other.
Laws (governing professional or public employees) do not define a unified system of requirements for
teachers, nor is there is any quality assurance system. Thus salaries and other financial rewards are not
related to performance (in terms of quality and quantity), which allows faculties to be rather
heterogeneous quality-wise. The public employee law sets salaries based on age, time in employment,
foreign language proficiency, etc.
110.  In Table 18, the numbers of compulsory hours per week to be taught by teachers varies
considerably among institutions:



Annex 1
Page 29
Table 18. Hours per week taught by teachers at various types of HEIs in Hungary, 1995
Type of Institution           class/teacher/hour/    full-time student/
week             full-time teacher
training at Medical School                              3.9                     3.1
training at Agricultural University                     3.2                     6.0
training at Technical University                        4.0                     6.3
training at University of Economics                     2.2                     9.4
training at Faculty of Law                              7.7                    17.3
training at Faculty of Arts                             8.9                     9.4
training at Faculty of Sciences                         7.8                     7.3
training at Agricultural College                        6.8                    10.3
training at Technical College                           8.4                    12.5
training at College of Economics                        9.5                     9.8
training at Teacher Training College (5-8th            12.3                     9.5
grade)
training  at  Kindergarten  &   Teacher                12.3                    10.2
Training College (1-4thgrade)
training at Medical College                            16.1                    11.0
Average                                                 6.9                     7.8
Source: MKM data
111.  The figures in Table 18 indicate that the lowest number of hours per week (under or equaling 4) is
taught at Universities of Economics, Agricultural Universities, Technical Universities and Medical
Schools.
112.  The new normative financing model includes some norms for teaching loads in its calculation of
funding, ranging from 8 to 10 hours a week at universities and 10 to 12 hours at colleges, according to
seniority.
113.  Surplus of non-teaching staff. The internal governance system of HEIs is usually very similar to
that of 10-20 years ago, not adjusted to the developing educational market environment. Administrative
and financial staff mostly execute tasks instead of formulating independent decisions based on financial
considerations. Administrative offices, such as the so-called "Educational" or "Finance Offices," employ
extra people from the previous era when full employment (over-employment in reality) was a goal, and
thus many jobs were artificially created. This, in the long-term, naturally increased bureaucracy and
inefficiency, not only in the educational system but also in society in general. For example, comparisons
with Western European non-teaching staff (relative to teaching staff) patterns today show a ratio
approximately double in Hungarian HEIs.
114.  Lack of control by HEIs over their own resources. Various factors undermine the efficiency and
effectiveness with which institutions manage their financial resources. First, state money comes
according to six (too many) budget headings, between which institutions may not transfer funds without
prior approval from MKM. Second, income from tuition fees may only be used to support certain types of
expenditure, mainly development and refurbishment. HEI running costs cannot be covered by monies
coming from tuition sources. Third, some types of income of HEIs are heavily taxed by the government,
which creates disincentives for the institutions to produce them (mainly revenues from non-core
activities). Fourth, until the beginning of the 1996 financial year, HEIs were able to carry forward



Annex 1
Page 30
unspent balances into the next financial year, and thus were able to build up reserves4. At the end of
1995, however, these reserves were taken away by the MOF to reduce the overall budget deficit. This
obviously concemed HEIs, and even though they can carry forvvard end-of-year surpluses in theory, they
do not see guarantees that these surpluses will not be taken away again. Therefore, this year HEIs plan to
spend all their funds in-year, which might lead to less than optimal spending decisions on their part.
115.  Inadequate level of accountability. The main office carrying out the external audit of HEIs is the
eight-member Audit Office within the MKM, responsible for reviewing (a) the adequacy of financial
systems and controls, (b) the compliance with government rules and regulations, (c) asset inventory, and
(d) non-core activities. Audits of individual HEIs are conducted on a long, two to three year rolling cycle,
and currently, even this regular cycle is slowed because of the Office's present priority (which is
investigating the causes of large deficits in many HEIs). The procedure of audits is the following: the
Office's audit report is followed by an action plan from the HEI in which it resolves any weaknesses
identified in the audit report. At the next audit visit, the given institution must account for the
implementation of its action plan. Annual audits would raise the level of institutional accountability, as
well as the introduction of sanctions for institutions which consistently incur deficits.
116.  Priority needs and changes required to increase efficiency in use of resources:
-  increase the size of institutions by integrating, reorganizing or if necessary closing HEIs;
*  unify unit costs across training fields;
 reduce the number of expensive, oversupplying programs;
*  increase teacher-student ratio;
* standardize academic requirements across institutions;
* lessen labor intensive teaching practices;
* decrease the number of weekly class periods;
- delay the time of specialization;
* increase the role of performance indicators and requirements in financial allocation;
- provide more management-oriented leadership;
  increase control by HEIs over their own resources; and
- increase accountability.
Issue 3: Low Non-Public Resource Mobilization
Background.
117.   The government's scope of responsibility is tenuous with respect to higher education financing.
The cost of public funds is very high; a large shadow economy is untouchable by taxes, and therefore
activities in the formal economy must be taxed at high marginal rates in order to yield in adequate
government revenues. In recent years, higher education has received about 6-7% of all central budget
expenditures in Hungary. Low cost efficiency, no accountability and dominant public financing make the
systemri very expensive to taxpayers, an untenable trend for the country in the light of its economic
growth5. HEIs are able to cover only a decreasing part of their institutional expenditures from their own
revenues (about 40%). Furthermore, nearly 40% of overall HEI revenues come from social security fees
paid to them in return for their providing health care services. Estimates show a decline in institutional
revenues; from the start of the 1990s, the proportion of institutional revenues minus the social security fee
which compensated medical universities for providing health-care services, has dropped from one fourth
4 Though surpluses from one year to the next were possible to carry over, often it took six months in the new year
for the spending to be authorized.
5 Hungary's GDP in 1996 is at the same level as it was in 1980. Between 1980 and 1990 the GDP grew on average
by 1.1% each year, declined by 5.4% per year between 1990-1993, and started to grow again from 1993 by 1.9%
annually.



Annex 1
Page 31
to not quite one-fifth by the mid 1990s. Significant factors contributing to this process are the low-level
of tuition fees, and of cost recovery from other sources, lack of a loan system for students, privatization of
certain institutional services and ventures (into companies, foundations) and various constraints on the
development of private higher education. It would be essential to mobilize more non-public resources not
only into the state but also into the non-state sector of higher education.
Problem 1: Lack of private resource mobilization at public institutions
118.   Low state tuition fees. Tuition fees at public HEJs were introduced in 1995 in Hungary at a
monthly rate of HUF 2000 (about USD 13 at today's exchange rate) over ten months. It had been planned
as a flexible amount between HUF 2,000 and 10,000, to be determined autonomously by each HEI, but
considerable political pressure (mostly from student organizations) forced legislation to set a low, unified
amount instead.
119.   Government Decree 83/1995 (VI. 6) mandated that this tuition amount must be paid by those who
are in their first, full-time program in college or university, either in undergraduate or in doctoral training.
Those studying part-time in undergraduate programs (i.e., correspondence or night classes) can be
charged an additional supplementary fee (max. HIUF 8000/month). Other programs (post-secondary
training; part-time, specialized advanced training, second diploma training; part-time doctoral training and
other programs and advanced training) have no tuition restrictions. The decree allows one fifth of
students in each institution to have full or partial tuition waivers (only from the basic fee), on the basis of
academic performance or financial need. The Government Decree also states that HEIs can only charge
fees besides tuition fees if those services are not related to program requirements and to the fulfillment of
academic obligations.
120.   Tuition does not generate significant revenues. It is estimated that the revenue from basic tuition
is about HUF 4 Billion, and including the additional revenues from other restriction-free programs, totals
about HUF 7 Billion (which is equal to about 20% of the non-state revenues of HEIs and covers about
7.5% of their expenses). Thus, this amount is not able to generate significant revenues for the sector,
especially since subsistence grants to students remained almost unchanged. Subsistence grants to students
are a much bigger budget expenditure item than total revenue from tuition fees: the average per-student
grant is about four times higher than the tuition fee6.
121.   Recent legal regulation of tuition. The 1996 Amendment to the Law does not define the amount
of tuition, which will have to be regulated by further government decrees. Section 31 of the Law states
that tuition and other fees must be set (1) "by the Regulations of the institution within the framework of a
Government Decree in the case of a state higher education institution and state financed higher education
conducted in a non-state higher education institution," and (2) "by the Regulations of the higher education
institution in a non-state higher education institution." Thus, private institutions providing state-funded
training on the basis of government commission can only charge tuition from funded students equaling the
tuition charged for similar training in public HEIs.
122.   Recently, a Government Decree 144/1996 (IX. 17) introduced a differentiated tuition scheme to
take effect in September 1998. The decree allows HEIs to differentiate the level of tuition state-supported
students pay within a range, the minimum being 3% of the normative support per student (at least HUF
2000/month), and the maximum being 10% of the normative support (This normative is HUF 65,000 at
6 From 1990, subsistence grants are fmanced according to a normative system, the per capita amount is being
determined each year in the annual state budget. Based on enrollment numbers, institutions receive an amount
only to be used to cover cash benefits to students. This amount then can be distributed according to the institution's
individual policy, thus, it is possible to differentiate between students.



Annex 1
Page 32
present). The decree stipulates that HEIs must raise at least 30% of that amount on average, and the
institutions can differentiate the amounts individuals pay. The basis of differentiation is academic
performance and financial need. In the case of evening, correspondence or part-time programs, second
diploma or other specialized forms of training, HEIs can charge a supplementary tuition fee (on top of the
basic tuition described above) not more than 12% of the normative support.
123.  Low fee for and unequal access to dormitories. Dormitory places for students coming to HElIs
from other places than where they enroll is also a cost-related issue to be solved. There are several factors
which create a difficult situation around this question: (a) the number of available dorms is not enough,
and ithus equal access to this service cannot be ensured; (b) considering the high level of rents in Hungary,
unequal access to dormitory places also means that those living in dorms are financially at a significant
advantage compared to those who live outside of dorms; (c) maintaining dorms is very expensive for the
state considering the current, low level of dormitory fee required from students. According to the latest
regu]lation, Government Decree 144/1996 (IX. 17), dormitory fees are to be set annually by the individual
HEIs, but cannot exceed 5% of the current normative support.
124.  Budgetary constraints do not allow the establishment of more dormitories, and even maintenance
of the existing ones is a high burden on the system. Table 19 indicates that increasing student numbers at
the present in HE makes the number of dormitory places even smaller proportionally:
Table 19. Percentage of full-time students living in dormitories, 1990-1996
E   1990/91       l  1992/93   I   1993/94   l   1994/95    l    1995/96
46.8%           41.5%         39.8%           36.7%           33.5%
Source: Public Education and Higher Education, 1995/96, Central Statistical Office, Budapest 1996.
125.  In the last five years, the percentage of full-time students receiving dormitory accommodation has
decreased by 13. 3%, which creates more inequalities and consequently possible conflicts among
students.
126.  The following possible solutions have been considered so far: (a) a unified, monetary "rent"
allocation provided for students in need, which would help those who do not get into dorms as well; (b)
raising dorm fees; (c) extending available places by HEIs renting additional facilities; (d) reorganizing
dormitories into non-profit units contracted by HEIs.
127.  High subsidy for students. Overall, financial aid for students was 13-15% of the total public
expenditures for higher education last year, and if we add subsidies on the maintenance of dormitories and
on textbooks then it totals up to 20% of the total subsidy for higher education. A 1996 TEMPUS survey
on the welfare of 1500 students revealed that among all respondents, only 8 percent thought that the
present tuition fee was a high burden on their budget. Students were also asked what amount of additional
tuition fee they would consider reasonable, and the average tuition fee proposed by them was 130% of the
present amount (about HUF 2,700).
128.  Cost recovery from other sources is relatively small. HEIs' income can come from (a) grants
from central government budget, (b) other state grants from subsystems belonging to the general
government budget, (c) tuition, cost payment and other fees, (d) own revenues from basic and business
activities, (e) monetary donations and grants from foundations, and (f) real estates and tangible assets
donated. Up to the present financial year, if a HEI earned more than the budgeted amount (through items
c, d, e and f), it could only keep 50% of the excess revenue, while the other half had to be paid to the
MOF. This procedure can discourage institutions from seeking revenue generating opportunities.



Annex 1
Page 33
129.   Student loans have not been an option. The 1993 Law on Higher Education called for the
introduction of tuition fees, as well as a national, state-guaranteed student loan system. The former
became reality in 1995, but the latter has not been realized yet. Reasons for this lack of a loan system
include:
(a)    Double digit inflation figures make long-termn debts prohibitively expensive.
(b)    Financial experts advising the government believe that the central budget cannot be burdened
further by the introduction of a student loan system (interest guarantees). They also argue that
since the present, decentralized system of student aid is in the hands of student councils, the re-
organization of the system would meet significant resistance from students.
(c)    Students are considered as high-risk borrowers from the perspective of bank.
(d)    Some analysts doubt the capacities of the present banking system to handle such a complicated
financial scheme (i.e. problems in terms of liquidity, nation-wide branch system, expertise in the
banking sphere as well as at the ministerial level).
Problem 2: The private sector is underdeveloped and receives substantial public financing.
130.   Types of HEIs in the private sector. The Hungarian private higher education sector consists of
two types / of HEIs: church-run or foundation-run institutions. These two types have, at the moment,
significantly different profiles and political influence. As a result, they also follow different
organizational, academic and financial strategies.
(I) Church-owned institutions dominantly focus on religious and theological training and have only
scattered initiatives to continue humanities, teacher training or social worker programs. These institutions
continuously seek state-support either through direct lobbying or through state-church negotiations. Their
general strategy is to gain support equaling that of state higher education institutions.
(2) Private foundation institutions, however, which are supported through foundations and by
municipalities, try to fulfill regional and community development functions and their training programs
have a strong focus on present and future professional labor market needs: computer skills, managerial and
business skills, foreign language skills and education of the physically challenged. Training in these fields
also brings higher than average starting salaries, which is not an unimportant factor in the new economic
order where the relative equity of salaries is long gone. The transformation process from centrally planned
to market economy created a new social demand for training in up-to-date, modern fields which help
Hungary to catch up and keep up with European development. The leadership of the newest foundation
college explicitly expressed that one of the most important goals of their school is to train experts for the
European integration process. The fact that the next candidate for gaining state recognized foundation
college status (from the Fall 1997) is also a business school--called International Business College--, also
supports the labor market conscious and responsive argument.
131.   Size of the private sector. In 1996, in addition to the 25 state universities and 34 state colleges, 33
non-state higher education institutions are registered in Hungary. Among the 33 non-state higher
education institutions, there are 5 universities and 23 colleges owned by the church, and 5 colleges were
established through private foundations. Although other forms of private education institutions are also
permitted by the law, so far none of those were established.
7 A third group of HEIs consists of schools not recognized or accredited by the Hungarian state, but by some other
country's university or college. Thus, their degrees are granted at foreign institutions. Such is the Central European
University (CEU) founded by the Hungarian-born philanthropist George Soros, or the International Management
Center (IMC) which is the oldest western-style graduate management school of post-Communist Central and Eastern
Europe.



Annex 1
Page 34
Table 20. Number of students in higher education in Hungary, 1995/96 and 1996/97
1995/96                         1996/97
all students* (full-time students)   full-time8 students
State HEIs                         162,465 (117,992 full-time)         127,334 (90%**)
Church HEIs                          9,055 (6,302 full-time)              7,502 (5%)
Foundation HEIs                      9,049 (5,247 full-time)              6,722 (5%)
Non-state HEIs                      18,104 (11,549 full-time)            14,224 (10%)
All HEIs:                          180,569 (129,541 full-time)          141,558 (100%)
**Percentages were the same in both years
Source: Statistical Bulletin. Higher Education, 1995/96
132.   As Table 20 indicates, in the 1995/96 academic year, student enrollment in non-state higher
education (18,104) took up 10 percent of total higher education enrollment (180,569). The four
foundation colleges enrolled about as many students (9,049) as the thirty, church-owned universities and
colleges together (9,055). In the present academic year, the proportional distribution of full-time students
has remained the same, although enrollment in private and church-owned institutions has increased
significantly during the last three to four years. The feasibility and popularity of these institutions indicate
their importance in the higher education system. The existence and growth of privately owned higher
educational institutions testify about the willingness of users, social and economic partners to invest in
higher education.
133.  Growth of the private sector. Figure 1 below illustrates that the speed of enrollment growth was
highest in foundation colleges among all non-state higher education institutions:
134.  Low administrative staff ratio in private colleges. The ratio of students and administrative staff is
lower in private colleges than in state institutions, which is partly due to the fact that private schools did
not inherit the often inefficient and over-sized bureaucratic structures of state institutions. Foundation
colleges all make conscious efforts to hire as few administrative staff as possible, compensating quantity
with high quality and multi-skilled employees. Maintenance staff is also selected carefully, preferring
employees with multiple skills. In foundation schools, administrative staff in the Educational Offices and
Finance Offices are generally as low as 3-6 people per college, wvhich is an important differentiating
feature of non-state institutions where it can reach levels four-five times higher.
135.  Legal regulations. In order to be able to issue a state-recognized diploma, non-state higher
education institutions are required to gain state recognition and the approval of the Parliament. Besides all
the requirements state HEIs need to fulfill, non-state institutions are also required to show the existence of
appropriate personnel, material and financial capacities. Concerning accreditation, non-state HEIs fall
under the same requirement as state institutions, that is, they must be accredited regularly (at least once in
every eight years), and the first accreditation evaluation must be done by June 30th, 2000. For non-state
HEIs, gaining state recognition is based on the recommendations of the Hungarian Accreditation
Committee and the Higher Education and Science Council (FTT).
' For the present academic year, national statistics are only available on full-time students (except in the case of
foundation schools which were asked personally to provide data on all of their students this year).



Annex 1
Page 35
Legal constraints on private higher education
136.   State recognition. The procedure for gaining state recognition is quite long and bureaucratic.
Even in the case of just starting an additional major, paper work takes approximately a year and a half.
One of the private colleges reported that their application for an additional major (technical manager
training) has not been responded to for almost two years. (According to a 96/1995. (VIII. 24)
government decree, the accreditation committee must reach a decision within 120 days of the submission
of the request. )
137.   State HEIs protecting their own institutional interests against non-state HEIs. Between 1990 and
1993 (when the Law on Higher Education was enacted), several actors, state institutions and members of
the academic community had vested interest in allowing the emergence of private institutions. This
interest partly stemmed from the fact that faculty members were underpaid, and had financial incentives in
taking additional, part-time teaching jobs. Following the 1993 Law, however, existing state institutions
have acted and lobbied to protect their own institutional interests against emerging competition in the
academic market. This happened through influence in the MAB and the FTT. State institutions are
usually concerned about private institutions as competitors for scarce resources and in the long-term,
decreasing student cohorts.
138.  The 1995 Parliamentary Resolution on the Development of Higher Education defined a somewhat
contradictory set of objectives concerning the institutional structure of higher education. On the one hand,
the Resolution called for sector neutrality, freedom of founding institutions and running training
programs. The resolution also urged an increase in the role of the state in stimulating competition and in
the development of the academic marketplace. Furthermore, the resolution argued for transparency in the
process of providing state recognition and permission for institutions. On the other hand, however, the
Resolution calls for overall institutional restructuring, where priorities are being given to larger, more
integrated institutions. Therefore, this strategy may -- even if indirectly -- be biased against the
establishment of new, possibly small and specialized institutions.
139.   Bias of public authorities. Leaders of the existing private colleges claim that both Ministry
officials and advisory bodies define their priorities in view of the interest of the existing large institutions,
rather than according to the principle of supporting the emergence of competitive capacities. As a result,
since 1993, only one new institution (College of Management) has been given state recognition.
140.  Although the clauses of the modification regulating internal organization do not often distinguish
between public and private institutions, leaders of private institutions do not feel particularly impeded by
them. They claim they have their own authority and competence in defining their internal structure,
governance, administration, admission procedures or other organizational issues. A study on private
education (D. Nagy, 1996) reported that private institutions feel themselves de facto freer to pursue their
strategies and to initiate changes in their organizations, and furthermore, that they were allowed as well as
pressured to be more entrepreneurial than state institutions.
141.   Financial constraints on private higher education. The 1996 Amendment to the Higher Education
Law distinguishes between state-funded and user fee-based training within all higher education
institutions. This means that not all admitted students of accredited programs will be sponsored by the
state. In the meantime, according to the law, non-state higher education institutions will need to apply for
state support, for which the application process is as yet undefined. This program is expected to bring
about a new system of sector neutrality: neither state-owned nor private institutions will have guaranteed
support for all admitted students; in principle they will be equal competitors and decisions on grants will
be decided based on the recommendations of the FTT. This is why foundation colleges would prefer to
have appropriate influence and representation in the FTT which is dominated by state-university interests.
The Amendment's intent is to finance higher education based on the state's needs, regardless of the status



Annex 1
Page 36
(state or non-state) of the institution's maintainer. Transformation to normative financing requires more
preparation, and thus a further government decree will regulate the details of the financing process.
142.  According to the Amendment, state higher education institutions receive state funds in the forms
of (a) student allocation, (b) training allocation, (c) facilities maintenance allocation, (d) program
allocation and (e) research allocation. Institutions may decide independently how they prefer to use their
incomes which are not connected directly to their state determined and financed basic activities. These
incomes include fund contributions, donations, and gifts. These latter are exempt of duty or tax. Non-
state higher education institutions may receive state funding for their training. However, this support
should be solicited through a special procedure through which the state effectively maintains the right to
issue special authorization for state supported training activities. Based on a contract between the
government and the institutions, the latter will have the same right as state institutions to receive state
allocations, based on the number of students defined in the authorization each year: (a) student allocation
and (b) training allocation. Furthermore, non-state institutions may also receive facilities maintenance
allocation (c) which is equivalent to fifty percent of the training allocation. They can also receive program
financing allocation (d) and research allocation (e) on the basis of special competition. The Law states
that the use of state support by non-state higher education institutions may be supervised by the state.
143.   However, private institutions fear that the new system will not favor their programs as they will be
pressured to comply with more state-determined requirements. As we mentioned earlier, they also feel
that private institutions do not have appropriate representation in the key intermediary organizations which
define financing priorities and bring crucial decisions. Neither the foundation schools nor the church-
owned schools would have been able to begin their activities without significant initial support from a
majoi sponsor. In fact, foundation schools received buildings free of charge from municipalities. For
example, one college received two large, run-down, ex-Russian army barracks, and had to make
substEmtial investment into their reconstruction. Operational costs are generally partly covered through
the foundations, tuition fees and state support.
144.  Decreasing municipal support. Municipalities, which were especially active at the time of the
foundation of institutions, have run out of resources, and their participation in supporting and influencing
private institutions is decreasing substantially. This is a significant problem in cities where these
institutions are the only schools at the higher education level. In lack of municipal support, further
investbments and improvement of these institutions may be halted. Similarly, there are no clear incentives
for local business actors to sponsor these schools, as they can only deduct a limited amount based on their
sponsorship of higher education.
145.  Finances at church schools are less transparent as support from the state comes partly through
direct funds, partly through the Churches who receive allocation from the state on their own right. As
mentioned earlier, three of the church-owned teacher training colleges receive full state subsidies through
the incremental budgeting system.
146.  Tuition. A substantial part of foundation school budgets comes from tuition fees (for example,
37. 5 percent at one of the business colleges). The amount of tuition fee per semester is autonomously
determined by each school, with the highest reaching about 200 percent of the monthly average salary.
Except in one case, tuition fees have almost doubled since the first year of operation.
147.   Tax deduction is limited. According to the 1996 Personal Income Tax Code, students (or if
relatives paid the tuition, parents, grandparents, spouses or siblings are also eligible) may deduct 30
percent of the amount paid to state institutions as tuition8 from their taxable income, irrespective of
whether tuition is paid in private or public schools. What it means at the moment is that 30 percent of
91t applies only to the student's first higher education training.



Annex 1
Page 37
only the monthly HUF 2000 "state tuition" can be deducted. Thus, this deduction is seriously limited
because it is maximized at the level that state institutions charge. Private colleges do not pay taxes on
tuition, but do on other entrepreneurial revenues.
148.  In general, private institutions enjoy more independence and freedom in their finances and
entrepreneurial activities (such as room-renting, special courses or training). However, this freedom may
change once the new law is in force and state support may be based on recommendations by the FTT.
Then, financial decisions will be based on rather subjective perceptions of the schools' overall strategy,
and hefty tuition fees may not be helpful in gaining sympathy from experts sitting in the FTT or on its
Financial Subcommittee. These types of fears were clearly expressed by leaders of private institutions.
149.  State-financed students for 1997. Preliminary numbers by the MKM (only planned at this time)
for state-financed, first-year students in full-time programs for 1997 show that an overall 6% decrease is
expected in the number of state-financed places. This 6% decrease, however, is a result of an uneven
proportional distribution of cuts among the different types of educational institutions: 2.5% in state, 6% in
church and 46% in foundation higher education institutions. This distribution may be another indicator of
the political influence church-owned institutions have via their owner, this time at the expense of the
foundation institutions.
150.  At present, public resources are limited given the overall fiscal deficit; fiscal conditions are tight.
Thus, public institutions feel themselves underfunded, and there is a politically tense arena in which one
may not expect substantial financial concessions to be given to private higher education. In fact, the
public expectation is that the emergence of the private sector in higher education could relieve some of the
burdens of the state budget. In this political situation, only minor financial incentives may be envisioned
in the medium-term, including (a) a more transparent state recognition system which allows the
establishment and growth of private programs and (b) some tax incentives which stimulate private
investment into the system. In the long-term, however, appreciation of private investment in higher
education needs further reinforcement by political actors and government officials.
Priority needs and changes required to increase non-public resource mobilization:
*  very high social cost of public revenues;
*  increase state tuition fees (including a more equal dormitory fee system);
*  increase cost recovery from other sources to lessen dependence on public finance and direction
(including incentives for reporting);
*  investigate the feasibility of a student loan system;
*  ease legal constraints on the development of private higher education, such as less bureaucratic and
more transparent state recognition,
*  ease financial constraints on the development of private higher education, such as tax incentives
stimulating private investment in HE, a coherent non-profit law.



Annex 1
Page 38
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Az Orszaggyuiles hatarozata a felsooktatas fejlesztesenek iranyelveirol (Resolution of the Parliament on
the development of higher education). 107/1995 (XI. 4.) Resolution of the Hungarian Parliament,
approved on October 24th, 1995.
Felsooktatasi Felveteli Tajekoztat6 1996. (Higher Education Admission Bulletin). Ministry of Culture
and Education. 1995.
A Felsooktatasi Torveny. A felsooktatasr6l sz616 1993 evi LXXX. torveny, egys6ges szerkezetben az
Orszaggyiiles 1996. julius 3-ai ulesnapjan elfogadott t6rveny rendelkezeseivel. (The Higher Education
Law 1993/LXXX, with the Amendment approved by the Parliament on the 3rd of 1996). Fels6oktatasi
Koordinaci6s Iroda, Budapest, 1996.
Handbook on the 1996 Personal Income Tax Code, Budapest: Verzal Books. 1996.
The Higher Education Law 1993. Budapest: Ministry of Culture and Education. 1994.
Kissne Papp Margit."Nehany informaci6 az egyhazi felsooktatAsi int6zmenyekr6l," (Some information on
church higher education institutions), Manuscript. Ministry of Culture and Education. 1996.
K61ts6gvet6si beszamol6 (Budget Report). Budapest: Ministry of Culture and Education. 1991-1995.
Kormanyrendelet a fels6oktatAsi intezm6nyek leteset6senek es megszfintet6senek eljarasi rendjerol.
(Government Decree on the establishment and abolition of higher education institutions), Muivelodesi
Kozlony (Cultural Bulletin) Vol. XXXIX. No. 26. September 18 1995.
LadAnyi, A., Mennyisegi fejlodes es strukt(iralis valtozasok: a felsooktatas utja a felszabadulas utAn
(Quantitative growth and structural changes: higher education after the liberation of Hungary), Budapest:
Tankonyvkiad6-OktatAskutat6 Int6zet, 1989.
Laporte, Bruno and Ringold, Dena. Trends in Education Access and Financing During the Transition in
Central and Eastern Europe. World Bank, Technical Paper No. 361, 1997.
A magyar fels6oktatas fejleszt6se 2000-ig. (The Development of Higher Education in Hungary until the
Year 2000). Budapest: Fels6oktatasfejlesztesi Tarcakozi Bizottsag (Higher Education Development Inter-
Ministry Working Committee). 1992 July.
Polonyi, I., "A review of the economic parameters of higher education in Hungary," Manuscript, 1996.
Reviews of national policies for education. Hungary. OECD report. Paris: 1995.
Draft of the revision of and supplement to the 1993 Law on Higher Education, Ministry of Culture and
Education, April 15, 1996.
Setenyi, J. and Drahos, P. "MaganfelsooktatAs 6s privatizaci6" (Private higher education and
privatization), Education, 1992 Winter, p.283-300.
Schweitzer, Julian. "A maganoktatas eselyei Magyarorszagon," (Chances of private education in
Hungary), Education, 1992 Winter, p.263-267.



Annex 1
Page 39
Statisztikai Taj6koztat6. Felsooktatas. (Statistical Bulletin. Higher Education), Budapest: MKM.
1990/1991-1995196.
Timar, J. "Munkaero-kereslet es kinalat, 1995-2010," (Labor supply and demand 1995-2010), Manuscript.
November 1996.



I



ANNEX 2
Page 1
Mr James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Dear Mr President,
We write in support of the application of the Republic of Hungary for a loan from the World
Bank to assist in the implementation of Hungary's higher education refonn program. In what
follows we describe the background, principles, objectives and, finally, the strategy of the
program.
Letter of Sector Developmcnt Policy on Higher Edducation
A. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
i.    Hungary has experienced a significant transformation over the last few years: the basic
ihstitutions of democracy has bccn established and a free inarket-based economy has started to
emerge as a result of privatizationi, flourishing financial markets and, among other tlhings, a
convertible currency. Thcse developments have, however, been accompanied by numerous
conflicts and a deep econiomic-fiscal problems. Hungary may be considered a fairly developed
country, but its per capita GDP is still less than a third of similar indicators in Westem countries.
In the meantime, in the early 1 990s, the output of higher education was considcrable: rouglhly
10% of the age group gained a college or university diploma, and almost all those admittcd
finished their education successfully. Likc other state-financed sectors, higher education is faced
with the many cballenges of restructuring, as required by the economic situation and changing
social demands. These deemands arc also becoming ever more specific, urging an increase in
practically-oriented training programs.
2.    Since 1990, IIungarian higher education has made significant progrcss towards becoming
more responsivc and adeptive system, One of the main driving forecs of change was the rudical
I



.,  ..                                                                                        ANNEX  2
Page 2
increase in the number of students admitted. However, this process took place spontaneously,
principally taking into account what the higher education sector could offer much less attention
paidl to social and cconomic needs. This higher education policy letter outlincs the meaqurcs
needed to solve the problems of the next stage of developmnent.
The goal is to extendI adaptability and responsiveiness from  N stnrctural and quantitative
perspectivc and at the same time increase efficiency, cstahlish the conditions of quanititative and
qualitative improvements and insurc the financial sustainability of t.hc system. Our currcnt plans
for rnecting these broad objectivcs are further specificd in the attached Institutional and Policy
Matrix, it being understood that some details of the specific measures and timeframes foreseen
therein, especially in later years, may changc on the basis of cxperiencc gained as refonn in the
sector is implemented.
B. OVERALL PRINCIPLE:S AND OBJECTIVES
3.    Structural chanacs. The transformation of higher cducation must be accomodated to the
demainds of a modem frec market-based society and economy if it is to facilitate Hlulngary's
effort to join the European Union and satisfy the demand for a highly qualified work-force
bearing in mind professional capacity and economic limitations. The aim  of tlhc structur-al
changes is to establish a multi-level, flexible sysem which enlables students to transfer from one
level to the next. In this system  the various levels (post-secondary vocational, college,
unive:rsity, and Ph.D. programs) and modes (fill-time and part-time courses) will be
coordinated. A future national credit system and, based on its principles, the subsequenit
institutional credit systems will mnakc it increasingly possible to guarantee Transfer between the
different levels and modes. 'Thc national credit system must also take into consideration the
requircments of Furopeani integration. Tlhese structural changes will not imply a growtlh in the
number of programs. On the contrary, hased on existinlg programs we arc going to dcfine
broader fields of study- and narrow specialization will only begin at the postgraduate level. This
reform  will include the introduction of unified teacher training, as well as gencral anid
compulsory in-service training for teachers. The role of pairt-time and distance Icarning will
increasge, as will that of the role of extra-mural programs. These structural chaingcs play a key
role il the success of higher cducation reforms, because integrated institutions with a wide
variety of programs will be able more flexibly to respond to the changes of the labor market.
2



ANNEX 2
Page  3
They can also help to an incrcasc in mobility and their institutional management is likely to be
more cfficient and professional.
4.    Efficient use of resources, multi-source  ilE revenues. Duc to the unavoidable state
budget refonm associated with socio-economic tranisformation, the state-financed proportion of
higher education and research will not kccp pace with the growiing number of students. It will be
necessary to incrcase the ratio of non-state institutional revenues and to decrease state support
for non-state higher education institutions. As the student loan program is implemenited, we
cxpcct the share of opcrating costs financed by the beneficiaries to be about 20% by 2005. At the
same timc, a more effective use of public resources will bc critical if public cost per student
(related to per capita GDP, of which it is currently at 62%) is to decrease and approachl thc
average OECD level of 50% (but no lower) by 2005. Thei normative financing system of highier
education institutions must be completed and during this process thc norms comprising training
and maintenance expenses must be introduced with incremental corrections. Institutions must
enjoy a greater financial autonomy, which needs to go hand-in-haind with their growth of thcir
non-public revenucs. For professional and economic reasons, the financial managernenit of
institutions must improve significantly. In harmony with the principles of market economy, the
state must play a role in guaranteeing neutrality, promote competition, and stimulate the market
for education, takinig into account the economic and social needs. IThese, then, are the mlcans, by
wvhich the state can regulate the allocation of state-funded student places. In order to instigatc
more efficient operation of the higher education system, the present forms of management and
maintenanice need to be renewed and employers must also be provided an opportuniity to assert
their priorities. Changes will be introduced with appropriate guaranitees on the part of thc HETs
(no further increase in per capita support, rcduction in funding). HEIs are expectcd to take on
increasing rcsponsibility for their financial management together with their increased financial
autonomny, including the responsibility for raising a larger share of inistitutional revenues from   l
non-budget sources.
S.    Incrcasina enrollment. equal access to higher.. Qducation. The swift transformationi of
society has resulted in an increase in social inequalities, thereby further diminishing equal access
to education for underprivileged groups. The differentiation of the fonnierly unified system of
primary and secondary education and the decentralization of education policy has further
increased the differences in the opportunities for educational participation of between elite and
disadvantaged groups. The goal here is greater participation for lower socio-economic groups in
3



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Ihiglier education, and a morc open and transparent system of student support. One of the main
goals of the higher education reform is to increase the intake significantly, but in proportion with
social and labor market needs, The ratio of college students has to reach the same level as that of
developed countries, which is on averagc not lower than 30% of the 18-19 age group. Significanit
growth is especially justificd for shorter programs, broacer stLudy fields and non-state funded
part time programs. To increasc the entrance of less well-off students illto higher cducation and
lesseni the dependence of remaining in education on social background, a diffcrentiated student
support system needs to bc established. At the same time inore emphasis must be placed on the
selection of students o_ the basis of their excellence.
6.    Setting standards for academic and intellectual excelIence, In the midst of economnic
problems and  chaniging expectations, higher education  faces increasing  challenges in
maintaining quality and international recognition and in setting standards of academic, research
and educational excellcnce, The continuing transformation of the higher education system
should overcome these challenges, providc adequate funting for the sustcnance of a higher    
education system geared to long range social and economic: interests, recogilizc the professional
autonomy of institutions, stimulate academic conmnunitics and individuals to produce output at
an international level, recognize and set standards of excellence and improvc the quality of
training and research. To ensure excellence, the role and significance of individual studcnt work
must increase, which entails reducinig the number of compulsory classes. All this necessitates a
new approach fiom faculty as well as the expedient development of background cducational
services and infrastructure on the part of the lils (e.g. exparnding and modernizing libraries and
other student facilities). As a means of ensuring quality in autonomous institutions, wc wishi to
promote quality control within the institutions andl introduce clear standards and transparent
practice in accreditation proccdures, which will also take cmployer's interests into account and
which can be supervised and accounted for by the state. In research, higher education mnust make
an increased effort to join the capacity of research institutes , 1to sttengthen co-opcrationi betweeni
institutions in the areas of research and cducation and to emphasize applied research anid
development. We place great importance on the expansion of international relations in the field
of science and on participation in international research. FutLrc generations of rescarchers are
essentially recruited froni the student population of HFIls, and a legal and finlancial infrastructure
necds to be established that supports tlhis. Finally, we must tackle onc of the hardest felt
problems of higher education - the disgracefully low salaries of teachers and researchcrs - by
revising the present system of remuneration, introducing more flexible nonms of employment as
4



ANNEX 2
Page 5
well as a new system of requirements that induces enhanced performance by incrcasing class
sizes and teaching requireinents (average weekly teaching periods).
C. CHANGES IN LEGAL REGULATION AND FINANCING TO DATE
7.    Since 1990, the year iimnediately following the collapsc of thc old regime, the reform of
liungarian higher education has made significant achicvements in several areas. The Higher
Education Act of 1993 guaranteed frecdom for education, scicntific research and the arts. It
established the autonomy of higher education, regulated the legal conditions of employment of
teaching staff, ma(de the system of competitivc contracts compulsory, and extended the levels of
training to include the Ph.D. degree. It prescribed that students in higher education Imiust pay
tuition and other fees, while regulating for the possibility of a full or partial tuition waivcr to
promote equal access to higher education. The Act also establislied the Higher Education and
Sciencc Council (in Hungarian FTT) and thc National Accreditation Committee (MA13). The
FTT's role is to explore options for the solution of strategic problems in higher education, and to
propose, debate and help implement policies which address these various problemls. rhe MA13 is
rcesponsible for monitoring the quality of research and education nationwide.
8.    Before the refonns, the financing of highler education was based on historical
prerogativcs and institutional lobbying, and - as in other major publicly funded sectors -       I
instilutions were not required to plan their incomes and expenditures in a responsible and
rational way. Lack of flexibility in budget line transfers and expropriationis of savings creatcd a
situation where scarcity and excess went hand in hand. The new financing system, rewarding
institutional performance, has its principles codified in law. The foundation of the system is
normative financing, where nonns are calculated on the basis of the averagc per student training
costs of the individual programs (defined by broad groups) snd bouilding maintenance expcnses.
The level of funding each institution receives will depend on enrollmetnt figures and the actual
nom atives. The norms reflect the approved costs of training, building maintenance, and rcsearch
expenses as sanctioned yearly by the state budget, and their use, inter alia, will also contribute to
lower unit costs. Another method of perfonnance-related financing is through a competitive
grant system for research and for special programs (e.g. textbooks), a system which must be
sustainable in the long-term..
S



ANNEX 2
Page  6
9.    In 1996, an Amendment to thc Act on 1Higher E:ducation was adopted by the Hungarian
Parliament to provide the legal framework for the cstablishment of a more monodern structure and
institutional operation for higher education, as well as to provide the means for realizing
development plans at institutionial as well as govcrrnmental lcvcl. The Amendment creates the
legal framework for the establishment and support of integrated institutions. Among the possible
fonms of integration, thc Amcndmcnt details the organization, opcration and financing of the so-
cal]lcd higher- edujcation associations, wlichl can be created for a temporary period of two years; it
also supports all forms of instituitional modernization in terms ol both internal rationalization
and external integration. The transformation of the institutional structure will be based on a
continuously rcfincd institutional network plan, created by those involved in higher education.
D. GOVERNMENTAL STRAI'EGY
10.   in planning the higher edtucation modemnization project we aim to:
(a) incorporate a higler proportioni of the age group in higher education,
(b) in programis that arc flexible anid relevant to the changing economic and social needs,
(c) rationalize the systen and make it more efficient,
(d) have beneficiaries assume a greater share of the costs, while ensuring equitable
access,
while, without permitting the deterioration of the quality of the Hungarian higher
education system.
I1. lR es qtjjijipng thci system of hiher education. In orde- to foster a more flexible adjustmnent to
labor market needs and easier transfer between institutions, short-cycle courses will be
introdiuced. A multi-level system will be established, with several kinds of outputs. In the near 
fulture, short-cycle courses will be integrated into the framework of the four-tier system, pending  I
qualily-based sclection (witlh enhanced internal achievement standards), and state-finided
priorities will bc shifted toward slhort-cycle training courses, together with an increase in state-
funded places in this sector.
YZ.. ..i~ansion. of_.enroll.Qntls: The objectivc is to maintain the present level of first year
admissions and withini this to allow further state-financed expansion, mainly in short cycle
programs. In the last few  decades higher education has used highly selective entrancel
6



ANNEX 2
Page 7
requirements to keep admissions at an artificially low level ( less than 10%/ of the respective agc
groups).
Since 1991 the dccreasing selcctivity of admissions and thle increasing variety of programs has
resulted in this proportion rising to 17%. The objective is to fuirther increase fliWl-time state-
financed student numbers to at least 25% by the turn of thc contuiy and at least 30% by thc year
2005. (At the same time, Hlungaiy will expericnce a demographic decline of the collcge agc
cohort: in 1990 there were 142,000 in the 18-year-old age group, in 1994 there was a peak of
190,000, while in 2000 the figure will be 139,000 and after 2005 it will remain at an alImost
constant level of J 20.000-125.000). 'These goals can be achieved by maintaining the number of
new entrants at the 1996 level (42,000).
13. Principles goveniiig the allocation _f state-financd student places, including lhe role of
student choice. The objectives are twofold: transparency and coherence of the allocation of state-
fiunded places in accordance witli state objectives. The preferences of the governnlent arc labor-
inarket rcsponsiveness and greater student mobility. The ultimate goal is to reducc the
intervention of the state in the allocation of student places amonig institutions and training
programs. The objective is to allow institutions to competc for stidents, to allow students to
choose institutions on the basis of their qualifications and interests, and to pay institutionis
according to the number and type of studenits enrolled.
In the futture, the FTT will make annual recommendations for the allocation of places according
to clear and explicit govesnment priorities, for which both state- and nozi-state-funded
institutions would then bid. The basic priorities of the state-financed enrollments will mainly be
set according to studenits' interests and partly be set according to some forecasts (using
assessments of labor market needls ajnd intemationial comparisons) of tdle distribution of
graduates in different disciplines. As the labor market and the education market develop further,
the weight attached to labor market needs will find an expression in studenit demand.
14.   IMnrovemenls and changes_in the nonnati.v  financing model : The oljective is to
develop a system which is simpler, more transparent and, thanks to continuous refinemcnt, morc
able to fulfill its roles (to generate efficicncy, productivity and flexibility). The next steps are:
- the extension of nonrative financing to include ovcrhead costs;
- the consolidation of the number of allocation units to seven;
7



ANNEX 2
Page 8
- the reduction of the differentiation in program  financing between colleges and
universities;
- the integration of post-secondary vocational training into the normative finanicing.
15.   Plans for the credit systen: The objective is to set up a more flexible and penncable
training system allowing students to enter the system whilc a program  is already running or
leave it before the program  is complete. The credit systetn will also be usecl to help thc
integration of short cycle courses into the multi-level system. A Credit Council will be
established, whose mandate is to elaborate a national crcdit system. The legal framework of the
credit system will be created in 1998. In the same period, a credit systcm will be detemiined for
the various part-time programs that is bascd on and is compatible with the credit scheme for full-
time programs..
16.   Redefinition of academic requirenments. The objective is to revise the academic
requiremenits cxpected of student, starting with the establishment of a unified and credit-based
system of minimum requirements. The main purpose will be to reduce the number of contact
hours to ensure more time for independent work. To facilitate this process, a new decree is
imminent, which will introducc a new system of broader (lefinitions of ncademic requiremctits
by discipline. Here introductory core courses will be defined and based on these the inumber of
electivcs must increase.
17.   Strengthening the strategic.Qlpof MOE. The objective is for thc Ministry of Culture and
Education (MOE) gradually to decrcase its role in thc supervision of day-to-day opcrations at the
institutional level and to strcngthen its palt in policy development, and the dcfinition,
implementation and( supeivision of strategy at govemmental level. For this purpose, a new sub-
section responsible for these tasks will bc cstablished by restructuring MOE's higlier cducation
division ancl by redistributing tasks. Wc will organize appropriate training for those performing
these new tasks.
I8    Intermediary orzanizations The objective is for these organizations to increase their
professional coordination and preparation functions at the expense of their representation and
lobbying roles. The 1993 Act on 1J-ighcr Education created a number of umbrella organizalions,
notably the FTT and the 1Hungarian Accreditation Committce (MA13), to advise on policy-
making and make recommenidations to the Govemnment concerning development, funding and
quality control for higher educationi. In the light of the experiences of the intervening years, the
8



ANNEX 7
Page 9
modifications of 1996 called for the rcstructuring of these bodics. New decrees issued this year
have redefined the composition of both bodies and their sub-committees, as well as that of the
Higher Education Development Fund (FEFA). The policy priorities for these and other newly
created committees will be coordinated in accordance with the governnent's higher education
policy to ensure harmonization of their various mandates.
The restruCtured MAB will facilitate thc modernization and diversification of academic
programns by speedinig up the accreditationi process, and will also propose mcasures that allow
faculties and institutions greater freedom in starting new programs. The FTT is expected to make
recommendations on the conditions for the allocation of state support, on performance
indicators, models and objectives. The FIT has beeni set up in such a way that decisions or
recommendations sbould represent unbiased and professional considerations rather than the
intcrests of particular groups.
19.   The role of sEILs The objective is significaltly to increasc both profcssional autonomy
and financial authority and to augincnt management capacities and responsibilities in order to
cope with growing demands. At the institutional level, govcrnmental regulations will need to
endorse  institutions with  greater financial responsibility  over their own  resources.
Correspondingly, this year's modification to the budget law removes all restrictions on the use of
tuition fees, and the same law reduces the surtax on outside earned income from 13% to 5%. The
three pilot institutions taking part in the first phase of the higher education investment programn
will receive funding in less restricted special block grants. The pilot institutions will also be
allowcd to carry ovcr excess funds at the end of the year without special permission. Satnctions
will be imposed on those inistituttions which do not keep to their annual budget. If our
experiences witl the greater financial autonomy given to the three pilot institutions is positive,
and on the basis of the evaluation of those experiences, greater financial autonomy would be
expected to be extended to all other institutions participating in the integration program.
At the university and college level, the process of strategic planning will be institutionalized,
using the detailed Institutional Development Plans developed under the preparation phase of the
investment program as models. The Ministry of F-ducation is to oversee the development and
introduction of management infornation systems and to coordinate the nascent initiatives in this
area, with the goal of full developmcnt and installation of management information systemns in
Hungary by the end of 1998. On the management training side, a document has been prepared
9



ANNEX2
Page 1ff
detailing the terms of refercnce for the establishment of a lprofessional managcmcnt training
program.
20.   Institutional inteeration. The objectivc is to establish instittutions of an appropriate size
and profile, whose flexibility allows tlhem to provide enhanced innovation and competition, as
well as more efficient operation, a higlher level of achievemncnt, and a wider rangc of programs
and courses for sttdents to choosc fron. Integrationi is essential if wc want to achieve the main
objectives formulated in Section B. The amendment to the law states that wherevcr possible anld
rational, llBIs should transform themnselves into multi-faculty universities by the end of 1998.
After this date Parliament can decidc whether institutions which have not fulfilled the
integration requirements should be integrated, restructured or handed over to a new owner. Ilche
ultimate goal is to have 10-12 larger integrated universities and some smaller regionial higher
education centers. A development fund has been created to support the initegration of both
professional and economic activities and infrastructtire and to help establish the conditions
necessary for their opcration. L.ast year's distribution of 1.5 billion IIUE was targeted solely at
institutions in the process of integration, and in the next few ycars (levelopincnt support funds
will mahnly be distributed among those applicants whose integration plans promisc well-founded
'inancial and professional advanitages and are in harmony with institutional network plans.
Several institutions have alrcady started the process of strategic planning for integration lias. In
the long run all applications for state funds must have a strategic plan. As well as FTTr, a wide
range of employers will need to be involved in the evaluation of the strategic plans. Based on the
1996 amendment to the Law on Higher Education, a govermunicrt decrce has been issued
containing the detailed rules of institutional integration so as to promote the transition to multi-
faculty universities within the next two years.
21.   Finance an d management: 'rhe main objectives are incrcasedi cost-effectiveness, mixed
state and non-state financing, atnd in the area of operating costs a rise in uiscr fees combined witl
a sensitivity to social background. Absolute state support for higher education will increase -
reflecting the growth in the system - but public support will decrease on a per student basis.
Private support per student will increase, both from beneficiaries and through private higher
education. This increased efficiency in the use of state funds will be the rcsult of the above
outlined priorities of development and must be accompanied by high quality.                         |
To increase their ability to make firm  plans, higher education institutions need to havc
confidence in budget projections and they need to be guLaranutced that there will no lonser be
10



ANNEX 2
Page 11
fluctuations in state support of HEIs. Thc three pilot institutions participating in the investment
program have bcen assured that no changes will be made to their budgets during the fiscal year
once budget figurcs are rclcased, with the exception of Parliamentary or Govemmental
directives. However, sanctions will be imposed on those institutions which do not keep to thcir
legally binding annual budget described in the law on the Treasuiy System.
Uniform investnment criteria must bc detcrmined for the whole higher education system. For the
sclcction and evaluation of prospective candidates we intend to subject all capital investnieint
projects in the scctor to the same efficiency criteria and procedures introduced through the
higher cducation refonm and investrncnt program. This means that a single and rigorous set of
rules will be applied to the public funding of all investment cxpcnditures.
22.   Tuition fees and the system  of student nrants. Tuition fces were first introdLiced in
lwungary in the academic year 1995-96. The amendment to the law permitted an increase in
tuition fees, and a Government decree issued in September 1996 introduced a differentiated
tuition fee schemne to take effect in 1998. In the new system tliere are only two limitations set by
a Government decree: the maximtum fcc at the individual level anid the minimum total of fec
incomc at the institutionial level. Within this limit, the instituition is fi-ee to determine how much
individual students should pay and to differentiate the level of tuition fees accordinig to
scholastic perfommance. Tuition fees will increase in tandem with the introduction of a studeint
loan scheme to reach about 20% of training costs by 2005. Thc student loan system mnust enable
the needy students to finance their education. All die above applies to statc financed students,
but the same amendment to the law introduced a new category, that of self-financed students.
The tuition of self-financed students is determined by the institutions, on the basis of training
costs and market demand. We munst makc it possible for stujdents to transfer between the two
categories.
It is vital to ensure equal access to higher education for all, regardless of socio-economic
background. To that end, the system of student stipend allocation will be modified to target
students who perforn adequately, particularly those that are needy.
23.   Prjivate highir education: The development of the private, that is non-state and non-
church sector of higher education is an integral and necessary conmponent of the govenmnent's
higher education reformn program. First, development of private Ihigher education can bolster
almost all the goals of the reform program, including responsiveness to changing social and
11 ,



ANNEX 2
Page 12
economic needs, more efficienlt use of resources, and increased non-public rcsource
mobilization. Second, the sector duality would allow it to contribute to a healthy dynamism,
partly by injecting some useful inter-sector competition, but mostly by making distinctivc
con01tributions within a system  in which each sector could focus on its own comparative
advantage. Third, the private higher education sector would allow for expanded enxrollmcnts
without concomitant increases in public expenditure. Non-state enrollments now account for
about 5 % o. the national total. Wc intend to pursue the followiiig policies:
- ensuring that public higher education does not crowd out private education. In this
regard, we will increase tuition fees in the public sector as soon as the student loan
program is in placc.
- ensuring that the accreditation process is transparent, timely and fair for private
institUtionS.
- deregulating the prcscnt legal controls on private higher education,
- ensuring that private education is increasingly privately financed. We intend to recluce
public subsidics, at the same time making it casicr for the sector to gain access to
other sources of income. Suclh mcasures inclucle a guaranteed loan for studcnts in
private higher edutcation and the passage of a non-profit law to boost incomeic from
private contributions.
We believc that the strategic steps outlined here con2stitute a firm  foundation for the
comprehensive reform of higher education in Hungary.
Dr. Magyar BAlint                                    Dr. Medgyessy PNter
Minis,ter for Culture an   n                         Minister for Finance
Fobruary2, 1998
12



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Minisiry of Firianeo
Ropublic ot Hune,ery
PnIltiaal So9'..r'trwy ct Sdte
Roger Grawe                                          14 Jlnmaiy, 1998
C ountq Diret*owr for DulEar
)tV'r Mr. Grawrz
As you may know. n^7,otiations for tho propossed Hig,h&: Fduuaion Relo1m
ProjLct were hcld in Washington D.C., from D)ccember 15 to 1 , 1997, be.ntern
the delgatiens of the Witnld Bank and the iovernmeni nf Ihe Rcpublic of
14ingaiy. On this occasion the delegation-, tigiced on thc draf. LoIan Agrcement,
the two side letters thereui anid the onthor technical documcms of the Trojcct.
Towever, the negotiations in respect of the Finaucial Covenants ((Article IV)
of the Loan Agrement, renmined mconclusivo. J he nain reHuso  of the
1unpgarisn ckI)gations objoction was that tle niw Yersion of Artcle IV,
re-fleting fndamental change.s in iIic finanval management system of thb
Project, was prewaiwd to th liungwian delegation fnr ilic first timc during the
ncgotiations. Consequently the delegiiiion lad no authority to accept the. new
linancial and repnrTitg arrangcments. Both delegations, thwserore, aged to
refc Ibis ma&T to tho nmaagement mi nrdcz to rcsolve the issue satisfactorilv as
soon as possible. The aim of this lett  is to inform ynu uf the fIungarisn
position uoncrning ite aibresaid issue nd no miiake our proposal th*reon.
The new version of Article IV would bind the Borrower, intomalla, tD have the.
financial manaement system for dte lProject evaluated by an appropriatc
auditing body by Jwuc 30, 1998, tiunish to the Bank a report on such evaluation
by July 31, 1998, review it with die fB mk and thoreaftcr alke all nruasures
necessary to ensiur the Ieficint flow of funds foyr thie Projcet taking into
considwation the Bank's views oTn (he mattor. I hesc additional iiew
reqwrents, in oIr npiuion, seem to be unwaranted, espccially considerinS
the fact dtt you institution is familiar with the lHungarian Treasury %ysLtm
which was indeed developed in cooperation with youw  cxperts, To our
wA,g



ANNEX 2
Page 14
I
knowledge the World Bank hm, heen highly satisfied for mor than a doca41
with the aooount keoping and auditiag syastcm of the Nantiusul Bwi3k utfllugazy.
I     nrdmg a new, not preciaaly nrmsncuibed, financmg ranagenent systa
may postpone or even cadlanger th putting ilnQo cffut ,r ifhis quitc importan.
Project And will surely add extra costs to thc project implomentationi.
Rssj iipnn the foresornis, may we make the 1olIowing proposal. On tho
Hungnrian sidc wC would be roady to submit to thG Croveuzitcut fi(l aceiptance
the new version Of Article IV as negotiated dunng the discussions in
Washington D.C. At the samu fimcwe suggesm thali this lonter and ynmir response
consdtute supplements to the Minutes o1 Negotiations dated Dcember 19,
1997. This exchange of lettcrs would oumirrn Ilhat uporn thei ctrrent kriowlege
sad  informarlon  of your institution, the prownt  F7ungwi  financial
managcmnnt system for World B3asA luaus has beun deemed to be "ti Rfamtorv
to the Bank, We would seBk your assurance that tho proposed audit of the
financial management system vill not alTfc aniy udicr l3aTnk lnan tn Himy.ary
and will not lead to changes in curront Hungarian legislation.
I do hope that our proposal is satisfactory to you wnd  w would highly apprrciatc
your acutlwicte nr any nommenfr-s cn this matier.
Your sincerely,
LAszle6 Akar



Ino vvoric  anK                                       tanK v.enter, wranite lower  Tel: ([3-
WTERNAllONAL RANK FOR RECONSTRUCTbON AND O-8VELOPMENT  Szabadsag ter 5-7. 5th floor  Fax: (36   A
INTERNATuONAL DEVELOPcMENT ASSOCIATION                 H-1944 Budapest. Hungary              NNEX2
Page 15
January 15, 1998
Laszl6 Akar
State Secretary
Ministry of Finance
1052 Budapest
J6zsef nador ter 2-4.
Dear Mvfr. Akar:
Thank you for your letter of Januarv 14, 1998. 1 appreciate the circumstances
under which the Hungarian negotiating team for the proposed Higher Education Reform
project wished to refer the new Financial Covenants (Article IV) of the draft Loan
Agreement to its authorities in Hungary.  I am  of course pleased that respective
Ministries have taken the decision to submit to the Government the draft Loan
Agreement including the new Article IV.
With respect to the concems raised in your letter, I can confirm that the present
Hungarian financial management system for World Bank assisted projects has been
deemed satisfactory to the Bank. Based on our current knowledge and information, we
do not anticipate that the proposed audit of the financial management system under the
proposed Higher Education Reform project will affect other Bank assisted projects in
Hungarv, except insofar as you see fit to make changes in that svstem yourselves to
improve its management and functioning. Of course the new Financial Covenants will
apply to all future Bank assisted investment projects but the implementation of future
reviews would incorporate and build on the findings of the proposed audit to avoid
expensive and unnecessary duplication. We would also not anticipate that the proposed
review would lead to changes in current Hungarian legislation.
As we discussed in the context of the World Bank Country Assistance Strate.,
we propose to work with your colleagues in Government to improve the implementation
of intemationally accepted accounting, auditing, and procurement practices in Hungary
so as to simplify wherever possible the procedures associated with World Bank loans. I
expect that the proposed audit would be undertaken in the context of and in the spirit of
this joint exercise. I look forward to initiating this broader activity in the months ahead.
Finally, I confirm that our exchange of letters be considered as a supplement to
the agreed Minutes of Negotiations for the Higher Education Reform project dated
December 19, 1997.
With best re-ards.
Sincerely yours.
;    Roger Grawe
Countrv Director for Hungarv
RCA :a. L2'Nul e41445 i: F.AX; t02J:O 7 7.S!



IIIU UUtJI*U w dI&ju  gaaiIs                                ~    ~-041-I QCj ULse lne Ia. .z- IVX
NTERAT(ONAL CANK FOR RECONSTRuCTION ANO OEVELOPMENT    Szabadsag ter 5-7. 5th floor  Fax: (36-1) 302
INT!RNAI1ONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                   H-1944 Budapest, Hungary                 ANNEX2
Page 16
January 15, 1998
Ldszl6 Akar
State Secretary
Ministry of Finance
1052 Budapest
J6zsef nador ter 24.
Dear Mr. Akar:
Thank you for your letter of Januarv 14, 1998. 1 appreciate the circumstances
under which the Hungarian negotiating team for the proposed Higher Education Reform
project wished to refer the new Financial Covenants (Article IN) of the draft Loan
Ageement to its authorities in Hungary.  I am  of course pleased that respective
Mlinistries have taken the decision  to submit to the Government the draft Loan
Agreement including the new Article IV.
With respect to the concerns raised in your letter, I can confirm that the present
Hungarian financial management system for World Bank assisted projects has beer
deemed satisfactorv to the Bank. Based on our current knowledge and inforrnation, we
do not anticipate that the proposed audit of the financial management system under the
proposed Higher Education Reform project will affect other Bank assisted projects in
Hungary, except insofar as you see fit to make changes in that system yourselves to
improve its management and functioning. Of course the new Financial Covenants will
apply to all future Bank assisted investnent projects but the implementation of future
reviews would incorporate and build on the findings of the proposed audit to avoid
expensive and unnecessary duplication. We would also not anticipate that the proposed
review would lead to changes in current Hungarian legislation.
As we discussed in the context of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy,
we propose to work with your colleagues in Goverrnment to improve the implementation
of internationally accepted accounting, auditing, and procurement practices in Hungary
so as to simplify wherever possible the procedures associated with World Bank loans. I
expect that the proposed audit would be undertaken in the context of and in the spirit of
this joint exercise. I look forward to initiating this broader activity in the months ahead.
Finally, I confirm that our exchange of letters be considered as a supplement to
the agreed Minutes of Negotiations for the Higher Education Reform project dated
December 19, 1997.
WVith best regards.
Sincerely yours.
,~ Rover Grawe
Countrv Director for Hungarv
RCA :4:1.. (NUI '34'1 ( XU .Z0( 477-6d91



Annex 3
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HUNGARIAN HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL MATRIX
OBJECTIVE I: INCREASE HIGHER EDUCATION'S RESPONSIVENESS TO CHANGING SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC NEEDS
SUB-OBJECTIVE          MEANS                                        ACTION  'tAKXN                       ACTION REMAINING             Responsi-   By
bY      when
1. Raise enrollment    1.1 Increase percentage of applicants admitted to Percentage admitted has increased  Increase percentage gradually         9/04
rates to at least 25 % of  some form of tertiary education          from _  to _ between 1990 and        to reach target.
the age group 18-22                                                 1996
years.                                                                                                     .
1.2 Diversify HEI offerings to attract and serve  --a. Expand short cycle to other  HEls                                   ongoing
diverse interests and abilities              a. Act LXI.' recognizes and         HEls
encourages development [7-(9)]
b. Short cycle courses have been
introduced in order to increase access
(7/96)
c. Private HE institutions accounted
------------------------------------for 10% of enrollment - (1996).                   ..
1.3 Reduce unit costs of education at HEls. (See  --a. Implement first 3 IDPs                                  HEls        starting
also Objective II.)                          a. Included in first 3 IDPs. (3/97)  b. Develop second group of               9/97
IDPs with explicit cost      HEIs         6/98
reduction objectives
c. Develop third group of IDPs
with explicit cost reduction  HEls        6/99
objectives
1.4 Increase recovery of costs from students             -a. Complete planning                                 PM/MKM/ 9/97
who can afford to pay. (See also Objective III.)  a. Tuition fees introduced (95/96)  b. Monitor actions of HEls
b. Differentiated policy adopted
w/higher tuition permissible. ( 9 /96)
Governmental Decree (1/97) delegated
tuition fee-setting to HEIs within
---- ---- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --           overall national norms.                        .
1.5 Remove cost of education as a barrier to             -a. Ratify planned implement    MKM/FM    7/97
needy students through scholarships and loans.   a. Call for pre-savings plan by
(See also Objective 111.                     government (9/96)                   b. Finalize plan and implement MKM/FM    12/97
_  b. Loan program being designed
ltindertlie 7/93 -ligiher lEducation Lau (Act LXXX or 1993) as amedlidcd uln Jull 3. 1996 (Act LXI  ol 1996) - hercinafltc rekcried to as "Act IXI



Annex 3
Page 2
SUB-OBJECTIVE   MMEANS                                                      ACTION TAKEN                            ACTION REMAINING                 Responsi- By when
2 A1lnta!e enrvollm ...... en.t.s  2.1 Allow s-udent demand to be the dominant  a. LXI [Section 9B]2 a. Discontinue central efforts    MKM                         9/97
and financial support to  factor determining enrollment by field and        b. New interim plan drafted and         to pre-allocate state-funded
HEIs based on student   institution                                         agreed by FTT (3/97) for 1998 school  places to HEls by single
demand.                                                                     year                                    specializations
c. Alternative medium term model        b. Implement new model           MKM          9/97
developed featuring student application  c. Develop national secondary
for state funded places based on        school-leaving examination       MKM          9/99
national examination (6/97)             d. Fully implement new model
MKM          1/03
2.2 Implement a norms-based system for                        -a. Reduce number of                                         PM/MKM    9/97
allocating central funds to HEs.                  a. Normative funding adopted as basis  categories from  14 to 7;
for FY97 teaching budgets. (1996)      integrate operating costs with
b. Phase 2 refinements drafted (2/97)   teaching norms
c. Endorsed by PM/MKM                   b. Raise student:staff ratio to    PM/MKM    9/99
10.5:1 and start reducing
disparities between providers
for the same degree
c. Reduce categories to 4;       PM/MKM    9/01
increase student:staff ratio to
12:1; eliminate disparities by
provider for the same degree
2.3 Require institutional mechanisms for internal       --a. Include in 2nd group of                                       HEIs          6/98
allocation of funds to programs in demand.        a. Reallocation described in some       IDPs                             HEls          Ongoing
institutional plans (3/97)              b. Implement
b. Stated MKM agreement with
objective
In the re ised 7/9'3 Higiher Education Law 172-1 j. [he (imerrinient shall... dcterm ne the an anal lnoIi huer  i Stalte Iina)1Ced stdei t  Is n\  hc adIi tIed, ad LI lic Mi islet, o f CIul tor    I: dItcation shal I...
decide on the basis of tile standpoinit of the HI ighler 1 ducation and Research Coliliei the nbilelrbc of State III i lined stud(enits w%ho maI  he adnll ittedl to Irst !ear in %ariouis Ie els oI dcication (and), i ii istrihttion
aimong institUltiOns.....



Annex 3
Page 3
SUB-OBJECTIVE          MEANS                                       ACTION TAKEN                        ACTION REMAINING              Responsi-  By when
bility
3. Restructure        3.1 Strengthen students' capacity for critical  a. Goals for reduction in student class  a. Implement at first set of  HEls  Ongoing
educational objectives,  thinking and independent study by reducing  hours established in first three IDPs    IDPs
structure, and content so  student hours in class together with increased  (6/97)                      b. Include reduced student    HEls        6/98
as to respond more     independent work.                                                               hours in second set of IDPs
flexibly to changes in -
labor market demands.  3.2 Establish a flexible structure of course  a. Act LXI recognizes/encourages  a. Appoint NCC and establish   MKM        1/98
requirement that permits student mobility within  development [7-(9)]           NCCO
and among programs.                         b. Some institutions have adopted a  b. Prepare implementation plan  MKM/Pilot 2/98
credit system                                                    HEIs
c. MKM has committed to system.     c.Start introducing credit   MKM         4/98
d. Framework for the credit system  system
outlined (2/97)                     d. Issue new guidelines for  MKM         4/98
qualifications requirements
3.3 Increase the flexibility and responsiveness of  a. Act LXI recognizes and encourages  a. Provide technical assistance   OMB  10/97
course offerings within Hungarian HEls; in  development [7/A]                   to OMB
particular, increase the breadth of degree  b. HEls designed new certificate and    b. Approval of new programs   OMB     11/97
programs, reduce the number of majors and   diploma programs                    [see 1-4(a)]
increase proportion of courses that are elective    c. Short cycle courses have been  c. Introduce in first 3 IDPs  Pilot HEls  9/98
introduced                         institutions
d. Expand to subsequent IDP    HEls      9/99 and
institutions                             thereafter
4. Develop more       4.1 Reconstitute central advisory bodies,    a. Act LXI created framework for    a. Amend FEFA and             MKM         9/97
responsive governance,  including FTT and its subcommittees, OMB, and  reconstituting [76ff]           Integration Decrees to clarify
advisory, and          FEFA.                                       b. Act LXI: created 50% outside     roles of FTT, FEFA
management functions.                                              representation on FTT [77]          b. Provide technical assistance   MKM     10/97
c. New bodies have met (6/97)       for building capacity
4.2 Incorporate outside views -- especially of  a. New regulations published in new    a. Establish Local Quality  HEls   ongoing
employers - in the direction of higher education.  decrees (4/97)               Control Committees or
Supervisory Bodies w/50%
outside representation
b.New bodies meet                        10/97



Annex 3
Page 4
OBRJECTIVE !!: USE RESOU'RCES MORE EFFiCIENTLY
SUB-OBJECTIVE         MEANS                                       ACTION TAKEN                      ACTION REMAINING             Responsi-  By
____________  _ _     _______________                          bility      when
1. Provide means and    1.1 Provide greater financial authority to selected  a. Comprehenisve financial agreement  a. Implement pilot programs at MKM/PM/  1/1/98
incentives for HEls to    HEIs.                                  signed by MKM/PM and pilot sites.    3 pilot HEls and expand to  pilots     &
control expenses.                                                (6/97)                             subsequent HEls with approved            ongoing
IDPs.
1.2 Move progressively toward hard budget  a. Comprehensive financial agreement  a. Implement pilot programs at MKM/PM/  1/1/98
constraints and cease state funding of budget  signed by MKM/PM and pilot sites.    3 pilot HEls           pilots
overruns.                                  (6/97)                             b. Issue Ministerial Decree on   MKM/PM    12/97
b. Act LXI: sanctions (including  sanction for budget overruns
r.structuring) for HEls that exceed  c. Enforce strictly provisions of MKM/PM    ongoing
budgets [I OB]                    the Decree.
1.3 Permit HEls to retain those resources  a. Comprehensive financial agreement  a. Implementation of pilot  MKM/PM/  6/1/97
mobilized outside the state budget, and to  signed by MKM/PM and pilot sites.    programs                  pilots
maintain bank accounts and use interest earned.  (6/97)                       b. Expand to HEIs with
approved IDPs.              MKM/FTT  ongoing
1.4 Transfer ownership and maintenance of to   a. Act LXI: permitted HEIs to hold and  a. Implement law and pilot  MKM/PM/ ongoingI
physical facilities to HEls.               sell property [9/G(2)]             programs                    pilots



Annex 3
Page 5
SUB-OBJECTIVE          MEANS                                       ACTION TAKEN                        ACTION REMAINING              Responsi-   By
bility      when
2. Adopt a business-like  2.1 Plan and control systematically within HEls  a. IDP procedures introduced at pilot  a. Provide technical assistance   MKM  10/97
approach to           including: (a) strategic planning            institutions (96/7)                 to HEls
management.           (b) IDPs as a basis for state allocation of  b. Included in first set of 3 IDPs (4/97). b. Refine IDP processes  HEls      ongoing
development and investment funds                                                c. Involve more institutions in   MKM     12/97
(c) business planning, including three year                                     process
projection of revenues and expenditures
(d) implementation of financial controls
2.2 Ensure accountability to external stakeholders                              a. Draft performance indicators MKM       9/97
b. Finalize key performance    PM        12/97
indicators for monitoring and
acceptable format for
consolidated annual reports.
c. Initiate variance reporting by  HEls/PM  1/98
HEIs on reduced set of
performance indicators.
d. Submit consolidated annual  pilot HEls  12/98
financial reports to MKM/PM.
2.3 Create the infrastructure to support planning,  a. Committee established for  a. Implement systems        HEls        9/97
management, and control.                    Information Strategy in Higher      development at HEls
Education (2 /97)                   b. Complete systems on       FEFA        12/97
b. FEFA/MATE contract for systems   schedule
development (/96)                   c. Design overall MIS strategy  MKM      6/98
c. National Office for Informatics  d. Undertake business process  at one pilot  12/98
Development created and full-time   redesign based on requirements HEI
Ministry level officer appointed    analysis
d. Overall implementation plan      e. Develop student registration  MKM     6/99
developed (4/97)                   system
f. Develop physical facilities    MKM    6/00
management system
2.4 Implement systematic training programs for  a. Proposal for short-term training  a. Engage technical assistance   MKM  10/97
management staff on the new and expanded    program drafted (2/97)              to design training programs
functions of HEls.                                                              b. Implement new training     MKM         1/98
programs
2.5 Provide technical assistance to HEls in  a. Agreed by MKM                   a. Allocate resposibilities to  MKM       9/97
planning and management.                    b. Detailed TOR completed (6/97).   PMU
b. limplemilent              MKM         olngoinig



Annex 3
-PaBge 6
SUB-OBJECTIVE          MEANS                                       fACTION TAKEN                       j ACTION REMAINING           1 Responsi- 1 By
I                l                                   |                            I b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ility  Iwhen I
3. Economize on        3.1 Adopt a unified approach for allocation of  a. Economic functions of FEFA and    a. Regularize process and  MKM/PM   9/97
investment and        state funds through various funding agencies, FPI  FPI merged into FPT (3/97)     coordinate resources
development            secretariats.                                                                    b. Reconstitute FEFA and     MKM/PM   9/97
expenditures.                                                                                           MKM/PM policies
3.2 Establish and use standards, including least-   a. Agreed by MKM             a. Complete analysis by      MKM/FEFA  12/97
cost criteria, for the design and selection of  b. Criteria drafted (4/97)       Standards Committee
projects.                                    c. Standards Committee established    b. Adopt design standards  MKM/FEFA  12/97
(6/97)                             c. Apply in all new investment  FEFA     1/98
projects
4. Reduce administrative 4.1 Consolidate administrative functions between  a. Act LXI provided for federations    a. Revise integration decree    MKM  9/97
expenditures per student and within institutions                    [12 and 59A-F]                      b. Launch operation as       Szeged      9/97
b. "Higher Education Federation of    integrated institution    institutions
Szeged" created                    c. Complete planning for full            9/99
c. Plans for administrative        mergers at 3 sites
consolidation included in first set of 3  d. Identify other candidates for MKM/  3/98
IDPs (6/97)                        merger                       institutions
d. Decree on integration issued (4/97)  e.Include and implement in  3 HEls  9/98
subsequent IDPs
5. Reduce teaching     5.1 Establish policy for teaching loads for faculty.  a. None                    a. Include in final IDPs     Pilot HEls  9/97
costs per student                                                                                       b include and implement in   lEts        9/98
subsequent IDPs
5.2 Shift enrollments towards low cost subjects    a. Included in 3 IDPs.        a. Implement first 3 IDPs.   Pilot HEIs  9/97
b. Include and implement in    HEls     9/98
subsequent IDPs
5.3 Increase overall average number of students   -a. Included in 3 IDPs.        -a. Implement first 3 IDPs.  Pilot HEls  9/97
taught per teacher by reducing student class hours                               b. Include and implement in    HEIs      9/98
increasing class sizes increasing teaching loads.                               subsequent IDPs
5.4 Target funding to post-secondary part-time,    a. Included in 3 IDPs.        a. Implement first 3 IDPs.   Pilot HEls  9/97
distance, and college instruction.           b. Govt. policy targets growth at   b. Include and implement in    HEIs      9/98
college level.                     subsequent IDPs



Annex 3
Page 7
SUB-OBJECTIVE          MEANS                                        1 ACTION TAKEN                        ACTION REMAINING             Responsi-  By
bilitv      when
6. Manage expenditures  6.1 Introduce professional management of student a. Included in 3 IDPs.           a. Implement first 3 IDPs.   Pilot HEIs  9/97
on student services.   services                                                                           b.Include and implement in   HEls        9/98
more efficiently                                                                                         subsequent IDPs.
6.2 Increase cost recovery for student services.    a. Included in 3 IDPs.        a. Implement first 3 IDPs.    Pilot HEls  9/97
b. Include and implement in    HEIs      9/98
subsequent IDPs.



Annex 3
Page 8
OBJECTIVE III: MOBILIZE NON-STATE RESOURCES AND CREATE A MORE EQUITABLE SYSTEM FOR FINANCING HIGHER EDUCATION
SUB-OBJECTIVE         MEANS                                        ACTION TAKEN                       ACTION REMAINING             Responsi-  By
_____________________                                                                                  __________________________   bility      w hen
I .Mobilize additional    1. I Increase cost contribution from students  a. Tuition fees introduced at nominal   a. HEls-MKM agree  MKM        9/97
private resources within  through tuition fees                    levels (95)                         b. Tuition fees ceiling raised    PM/MKM   6/99
public HEIs                                                        b. Government decree delegated setting further when access to student
of tuition fees to HEIs within national  loans becomes available
guidelines (12/96)
c. Tentative agreement of MKM/PM
d. Differentiated policy adopted w/
higher tuition permissible (9/96)
1.2 Broaden the base for financing of HEls  a. Increased institutional fund-raising   a. Provide TA to strengthen  PMU  2/98
included in first set of 3 IDPs (4/97)    fund-raising in 3 HENs
b. Hungarian/American Higher       b. Include in second set of IDPs
Education Fund created (4/97)                                   HEls        6/98
2. Increase the       2.1 Reduce monopoly and unfair competitive   a. Act LXI permits private HEls to  a. Increase tuition fees in public MKM/HEIs 6/99
contribution of private   base of the public sector                complete for discretionary funds   institutions as soon as student
higher education as a                                              distributed centrally [9H]         loan scheme is introduced
share of national higher                                           b. Policy options prepared (6/97)  b. Constrain public expansion
education expenditure                                                                                 in areas readily served by   MKM         6/00
Hungarian private sector
c. Increase fairness for private
HEls in accreditation process   FTT/OMB   6/98
2.2 Make private education more independent    a. Act LXI de-links accreditation from   a. Increase legal autonomy of   MKM  6/00
state support (7/96)               non-state HEls through
b. Policy options prepared (6/97)  deregulation
b. Revise law                Parliament  6/00
2.3 Reduce public financing of private higher    a. Policy options prepared (6/97)  a. Decrease state subsidies  MKM    6/99
education                                                                      b. Make students in private  MKM         6/99
schools eligible for guaranteed
student loans
c. Establish guarantee programn  MKM/PM    6/99
for borrowing by private HEls
(capital accounlt)
d. Pass non piofit law%      Parliament  6/98



Annex 3
Page 9
SUB-OBJECTIVE          MEANS                                        ACTION TAKEN                         ACTION REMAINING              Responsi-   By
bility      when
3. Provide selective state 3.1 Focus state subsidies on those with financial  a. Discussion and tentative agreement   a. Government and Student  MKM/ SU   9/97
support of students on    need and promise                          (6/97)                               Union commit in principle.
the basis of finance need                                                                                b. Evaluate of alternative
procedures for establishing
need.                         MKM/SU    9/98
c.Launch pilot to test       MKM          9/98
procedures
d. Evaluate, service and extend  MKM      9/99
application   -
--                 -     -      -     --             -      -     -      --            -      -----
3.2 Establish government-subsidized, nation-  a. Approved Governmental Decree     a. Decide and implement       MKM/PM    12/97
wide student loan program                    calls for creation of "compensatory  b. Ratify and implement       MKM/PM    12/97
measures" with tuition. (9/96)      c. Develop pilot program      MKM         ongoing
b. Govt. calls for Pre-savings plan
(7/96)
c. Principle of student loan system
accepted (6/97)
Acronyms:                                                                             OMB             Hungarian Accreditation Association
FEFA           Higher Education Development Office                                    HEI             higher education institution
FPI            Higher Education Grants Office                                         IDP             institutional development plan
FTT            Higher Education and Scientific Council                                MKM             Ministry of Culture and Education
SU             Student Union                                                          PM              Ministry of Finance
Note: figure in brackets. I1. refer to the Higher Education Law of 1996. Figures in parantheses. (. refer to dates



I



Annex 4
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
DESIGN OF THE LENDING OPERATION
1. The lending instrument and project design have been chosen to achieve strategic objectives
for reform of Hungary's higher education system. The choice of interventions has been
determined both by technical and economic considerations (see Annex 16), and by strategic
concerns. In developing the operation, seven major issues have been examined. The following
paragraphs discuss those issues and outline the conclusions that have been reached.
2. Timing of Reforms. Whether to require completion of reforms as a preconditioni for Bank
support or to pursue these reforms during the implementation of the project has been an
important strategic choice. Among the reforms that might have been required as preconditions
for the loan were (a) complete merger of institutions (both legally and organizationally); (b)
introduction of a credit and credit transfer system; (c) substantial reduction of required hours in
class; (d) merger of academic departments; and (e) implementation of modern administrative and
budget systems. The use of loan funds to finance facilities and in other areas might have been
delayed until such basic reforms were substantially planned or even in place. This strategy was
rejected and the alternative of gradual or staged change was adopted for four reasons:
3. First, an important objective of the project is to change the culture that has dominated
Hungarian higher education for over 40 years. Requiring structural reforms before financilg
improvements in the system poses two risks: (a) rejection of the loan because of the onerousness
of such changes compared with the relatively comfortable ways of the past; and (b) certain legal
and structural changes might be made de jure but the de facto operation of institutions might not
change substantially.
4. Second, Hungary generally has followed a more measured and gradual approach to chalnge
which reflects the politics, culture and history of the country. This pattern contrasts sharply witl
that in many other Central and Eastern European countries
5. Third, the structure of a phased project would provide the Hungarian government and the
Bank with continuing leverage to monitor and ensure achievements and reforms.
6. Fourth. requiring these and related capacities as preconditions could be self-defeating. An
important part of the change strategy in Hungarian higher education is building the capacity of
the system. Loan funds are needed to build this capacity, viz., technical assistance, management
training, new administrative computing and management information systems, etc.
7. Implementation of a Student Loan Program. The development of student-financed highler
education is constrained by households' very limited of financial assets, and by underdeveloped
and incomplete financial markets. Focusing the project on the development of a student loan
system would have allowed increasing ceilings on tuition and would have yielded greater cost
recovery from beneficiaries and consequently less reliance on the public sector for finance.
However, a study of the feasibility of developing a student loan program revealed that this option
has very limited potential. The commercial banking system is relatively underdeveloped and has
little experience in the production of consumer loans. Developing the institutions and procedures
for efficiently originating and servicing loans that are relatively small, poorly secured and long



Annex 4
Page 2
term will take several years. In addition, the demand for student loans may be very limited in the
short tern. High inflation has forced lenders to charge very highi nominal interest rates. These
rates make servicing student loans very costly, especially during the initial years. Innovative
lending instruments would have to be developed to make student loans an attractive option.
Otherwise one would have to await the restoration of macro economic stability and lower interest
rates. The project will support the development of innovative lendinlg instruments and the
creation of a loan guarantee scheme to encourage private lending to students. However, the
dlemand for student loans is not likely to exceed a quarter of the costs of instruction; other sources
of funding -- primarily public revenues -- must continiue to play a major role in the finanicinig of
higher education in the near future.
8. Project Focus. The project has been designed to address the issues in highier education
comprehensively, rather than through a narrow project focused oln one or two elements of the
system. The piecemeal approach was rejected because there really is a "system" of higher
edJucation, withi most major parts interrelated. To focus on only one or two aspects would have
failed to provide adequate incentive to the organization being changed; and thus limited the
likelihood of success even in the more limited area of attention. An alternative would have been
to focus efforts on selected fields of higher education. Selective targeting of fields was rejected
because restructuring is needed in all fields and the HEI must be dealt with as a whole
organization.
9. Support for All HEIs vs. Concentrated Assistance. In order to achieve sufficient leverage for
the multiple reforms sought at HEIs, and to address a reasonable share of the requirements, it was
decided to provide a minimum critical mass of assistance for each institution. About eight
integrating HEls are expected to receive an average of $25 million each rather than the funds
being disbursed more evenly across all institutions. In the past all institutions were eligible for
support through Government finance or World Bank programs. However, this option was
rejected for the proposed project in the interest of providing sufficient minimum size of
assistance, since capital investment requirements are huge at most HEls. It was also considered
that some of the natural resistance to reforms within the academic community could be more
readily overcome if the improvements in the physical environment were great enough. An
estimated 6-10 integrating institutions are expected to participate in the project. If an average of
4 institutions are included in each integrating institution, 24-40 of the current 85 or roughly half
of public HEls would benefit directly from project investments.
10. Choice of Lending Instrument. The lending instrument adopted for preparation was a sector
investment project with strong attention to defining and monitoring sector policy and promoting
institutional change. Direct investments in reforming HEls would be conditioned oni completion
of acceptable institution development plans. An adjustment operation would permit quick
disbursements to the central financial authorities for achievements in policy change and
implementation. However, this alternative provides no direct financial incentive for many
institutions making the difficult reforms. Moreover, the government has access to other larger
adjustment operations and currently has no balance of payments need for a quick disbursiig
operation. A specific investment operation would have provided specific investments for HEls,
but would not have facilitated monitoring of policy implementation. The conclusion was that the
project required both an adjustment component and an investment component. A hybrid was
considered, but the investment requirements were so sizable that the balance remaining for an
adjustment component would not have been sufficient to be of interest to the government.



Annex 4
Page 3
11. Single Large Operation vs. Series of Smaller Operations. At the start of project development,
a single, relatively small operation, was planned with the possibility of a second and third phase
project. The disadvantages of this approach are the lack of incentive for changes implicit in the
small project amount (it was difficult for some HEls to take the project seriously at $50 million).
the uncertainty of realization of additional phases, and the high administrative cost of developing
and processing three distinct projects. During pre-appraisal, however, the Government requested
a single large project with three distinct phases. This was considered more suitable because the
reforms will take a decade or more to implement fully, the larger project demonstrated a long
term Government commitment to the reform, it provided greater incentive for HEIs to participate
in competition for project funds, it economized on processing costs and still permitted
checkpoints of progress before drawing on funds for a subsequent phase.
12. Top down vs. bottom-up approach. Exclusive reliance on either a top-down or bottom-up
approach would not achieve project objectives. Overall policy measures can only be
implemented at the level of the HEI. Assistance to HEIs exclusively would have meant
inefficiency in implementation of several reform measures, which are best applied across the
board. Therefore the project has both elements, including reforms of various policies at central
level , and major policy and operational initiatives at each integrating HE].



I



Annex 5
Allocation of State-Funded Student Places
Basic Principles
Students
* Starting in school year 2000 potential students qualify for state funded places
through a unified national examination' for entrance to higher education.'
* Qualified students apply for fields of study and institutions of their choice.
Central Authorities
* The state determines the total number of statefinanced places it will support
by level.
* During a transition period of four years the state allocates the total number of
new state-financed places according to broad fields based primarily on student
demand and broad labor market trends with existing capacity taken into
account as a limiting factor on the pace of changes. Student choice would
assume an increasing role in the allocation with labor market projections
playing less important role in the allocations over time. The number of fields
would be about 25 in academic year 2000, declining to about 5-6 by academic
year 2003.
- Ultimately, the state ceases to pre-set state-funded admissions by field, with
the following exceptions. The state reserves the authority to establish quotas
for:
* a small number of fields in which it is the main employer, or are very
high cost -- based on broad labor market trends.
* the total number of state supported places HEIs in the Budapest area.
* The state uses positive incentives to attract students into fields deemed in the
public interest, e.g. fine arts.
* The state collects, analyzes and reports regularly information on labor market
trends to help inform student choices of fields of study, including tracer
studies of recent graduates.
* The state sets no limits on the number of non-state supported students that
institutions can admit.
HEIs
* institutions compete for admission of state-funded students
* Institutions continue to decide on own admissions procedures, criteria and
standards based on the results of the unified national examination. Allocation
of state-financed places through the national examination means that
institutions cannot continue current practices of filling available places with
state-funded students by lowering standards.
This could be the same as the planned baccalaureate examination; it need not be a separate examination.
2 The equity implications of the national examination need tobe studied in parallel with the design of the
examination. Means to mitigate inequitable consequences, e.g. to certain regions or income groups,
would also need to be studied and adopted. For example, regional quotas might be established.






Annex 6
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Private Higher Education Policy Statement
The government herein states its commitment to devise and implement public policies
aimed at the growth of a private sector in higher education. The establishment of
such a sector is an integral component of the overall higher education reform we are
undertaking. This statement sets forth why we support such growth and how we
intend to achieve it.
I.    Background and progress to date
The Hungarian higher education system has since 1990 developed the noni-
state funded sector in higher education, which by now accounts for about 10% of the
student numbers. There is, however, a split between the church and private sectors. In
June 1997 an agreement was signed between the Hungarian Government and the
Vatican guaranteeing for catholic students the same financing as state-funded
students. This agreement is extended to all religious higher education institutiolns, but
at the same time subjects them to many of the same controls. This statement deals
exclusively with the latter group, the secular private HEls.
Alongside invigorated church-run higher education, the establishment of secular
private higher education institutions ("foundation colleges") in the 1990s indicates a
supportive government role. Supportive measures included promulgating the
legislation that allowed pioneering institutions to be launched and protecting these
institutions from discriminative regulations. We have provided foundation institutions
(including church institutions) essential material support during their infanicy.
Currently, 5% of Hungary's students study in these 5 private institutions.
2.     Rationale
We realize that a well-functioning private sector in higher education provides
a number of benefits to the system and to society. These are the following:
*  first, and most broadly, the development of a truly private
sector helps achieve the government's general goals (e.g.,
more efficient use of resources; lower unit costs; state budget
reform);
*  second, a vibrant private sector will allow for expanded
higher education enrollments without increased public
expenditures.
* third, by setting an example of flexibility, whiclh creates
competition for the generally less adaptable state sector
* fourth, a truly private sector serves as a link between
employers and the higher education system, and thus each
party can spur the other to enhanced performance.



Annex 6
Page 2
3.      Policy objectives
The government therefore sets the following primary objectives:
*  to increase the HEIs responsiveness to the labor market,
*  to reduce the public cost of higher education  through
increased enrollments and enhanced private education.
These two objectives are achieved by increased enrollments, particularly in less
expensive college-level education, at the vocational level, and in professional in-
service training, that is, on programs that are responsive to the job market and do not
require vast capital or othier investment.
The long-term goal is to increase the share of the prival:e sector from the present S %
to 20 % of student numbers.
4.     Policy measures
There are three elements to the government's strategy to achieve the above
objectives:
1. Easing regulations:
*  that is, reducing government interference with the
private sector, e.g. nominations for administration
and staff.
2. to promote sector neutrality, expressed as:
*  equal, that  is,  noni-discriminating  treatment  in
accreditation processes;
*  enabling  the  private  sector  to  compete  for
development and research funds on an equal footing;
e  enabling  he private sector to compete for state
supported students;
*  equal access to student loanls by private sector
students.
3. providing financial incentives:
* the policy of the government is gradually to decrease
public subsidies for the private higher education
sector;
*  at the same time providing incentives for greater
outside financing;
*  provide support for initial establishrnent, but not for
ongoing operations;
*  allowing private higher education to charge higher
tuition fees than the legal maximum for state
supported institutions;
*  extension of the student loan scheme to private higher
education students;
*  non-profit regulations stipulate the tax deductibility
of private support for these institutions;
*  there  will  be  an  opportunity  to  support the
privatization of certain public institutions.



Annex 6
Page 3
5.     The private higher education sector and the Reform Program.
Part of the program's sources related to the strategy of higher education is
earmarked for the reform of the entire system, thus directly or indirectly it affects tile
private sector too. If private institutions decide to integrate, funds for this purpose
may be available for them. They may also participate in the Management Trailinig
and the Management Information System sub-components of the project, and the
government is ready to negotiate with interested institutions and work out the details.
(For greater specificity on means and projected impact, an Action Plan is included as
an addendum.)






Annex 7
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS
SZEGED UNIVERSITY
A. Assessment of Problems and Opportunities
1.    Szeged institutions reflect the following problems characteristic of all Hungarian colleges
and universities: (a) highly specialized and lengthy academic programs; (b) limited student
mobility across both programs and institutions; (c) large numbers of required classroom hours
(25 to 35 hours per week); (d) low student to faculty ratios (7.7:1 in all Szeged institutions and
9.4:1 in JATE--the largest university); (e) very low academic salaries which induces both a brain
drain and remaining faculty to work multiple jobs; (f) a tradition of tight government restrictions
on finances, a lack of incentives to raise private funds and lack of transparency in newly
emerging enrollment-driven formula financing; (g) a lack of national and local strategic
planning; and (h) an absence of good planning and cost data.
2.    Component institutions of the proposed Szeged University have positioned themselves as
leaders nationally in addressing these problems. Szeged is thinking competitively and trying to
position itself as an integrated institution (with programs ranging from two-year post secondary
vocational to postgraduate Ph.D.) that will design and implement programs to fit Hungary's
developing and changing labor market.
B. Mission Statement
3.    Five institutions constitute the proposed Szeged University (SZU): (a) Josef Attila
University or JATE (5,750 students); (b) Albert Szent-Gyorgyi Medical University or SZOTE
(1,950 students); (c) KEE College for Agriculture and Food Industry or SZEF (630 students); (d)
Liszt Ferenc Conservatoire or LFZF (162 music students); and (e) Juhasz Gyula Teacher's
Training College or JGYTF (2,600 students). The mission of the integrated SZU is to deliver
postgraduate, graduate and short-term training programs in the liberal arts, science, medicine,
agriculture and food engineering, and teacher training. SZU is primarily a regional institution for
the majority of its programs and a national institution in many of its advanced level programs.
C. Objectives of the Institutional Development Plan (IDP)
4.    The objectives of SZU's IDP are to: (a) detail the problems and opportunities for SZU;
(b) outline a plan for academic and administrative integration: and (c) document the highest
investment priorities. The IDP lays out a two-phase organizational integration plan which



Annex 7
Page 2
culminates in 1999 with institution (Szeged University) with 13 faculties, and elimination of
individual rectors and establishment of a single senate.
D. Means and Distinguishing Features
SZU's IDP sets forth a strategy for increasing the flexibility of the academic degree
structure by (a) increasing the number and proportion of short-term degree programs; (b) shifting
resources from low demand to emerging new programs (e.g., from medical doctors to newly
emerging, interdisciplinary programs like medical physics); (c) implementing a credit and
transfer system within SZU institutions; (d) reducing required classroom hours 15 to 20%
(depending upon the discipline) and correspondingly increasing individualized study; (e)
implementing an academic reform strategy that is driven by enrollment performance of the
various units, a 5% decline in academic staff over the next 5 years with a corresponding 20%
increase in student numbers; (f) effecting a 25% decrease in administrative staff through
institutional consolidation; (g) creating an on-going structural mechanism for strategic planning
headed by the new integrated SZU president and a strategic committee of the senate; (h)
introducing a budget reallocation mechanism driven by strategy directions and an internal
allocation formula based on enrollment; and (i) defining organizational responsibility for both
planning and reallocation below the central administration at the faculty and departmental group
levels--which will become the basic cost centers.
5.    Particularly distinguishing characteristics of the Szeged IDP are as follows. First, a very
explicit internal budget reallocation formula (enrollment-driven) that has been widely shared
within the institution and endorsed by the senate. Second, a funding mechanism that sets aside
10 percent of new funds coming to the institution under national normative funding as a pool to
buffer the rigidities of an enrollment-driven formula and to serve as an investment pool for
strategic directions. Third, the use of space utilization data and standards as the analytic basis for
justifying the need for additional classroom space. The utilization standards used (35 weekly
hours for lecture rooms and 25 weekly hours for laboratories) are on the high side of U.S. space
standards but are achievable.
E. Investment Proposals
6.    SZU's IDP includes a three-page investment plan table with cost estimates and funding
sources identified. While many projects are self-funded, top priority projects from which
Hungarian government (FEFA) and World Bank loan funds are identified as follows:
(a) Structural reform of academic system
(i) Computing systems and infrastructure to implement credit and transfer
system: $500,000 requested from FEFA
(ii) Construction of a new Study and Information Center to seat 1,000 students
and as an electronic substitute for current class/oral transmission of



Annex 7
Page 3
information:$15,000,000 requested from World Bank, Town of Szeged
and SZU
(b) Efficiency improvements:
(i) Construction of fiber optic lines between centers: $400,000 requested from
FEFA
(ii) Construction of Student Service Center for centralized student services,
larger classrooms and other centralized administrative functions:
$7,000,000 from World Bank, Town of Szeged, and SZU
(c) Administrative systems:
(i) Purchase of hardware and software for personnel, financial and student
systems: $796,000 from FEFA
F. Strengths
7.    SZU's IDP reflects an unusually high level of commitment to institutional integration and
resource reallocation within the institution. It is also more explicit than other institutions'
planning efforts to consolidate and change its academic program structure. The level of
specificity has improved greatly over several drafts. The primary strength of the SZU IDP.
therefore, is that it represents the leading edge of higher education reform in Hungary. The
primary ingredients for significant change are present at SZU: recognition that change is
necessary; a high level of commitment by member institutions; motivation based on a sense of a
competitive advantage in leading out with change; and data systems in various stages of
development that will provide the informational infrastructure to manage change. Cost
simulations with limited data, proposed organizational changes and a very specific budget
reallocation mechanism are presented. SZU has communicated its intent to integrate widely
among member HEIs. Two versions of the draft IDP in its entirety were distributed to all senior
faculty; a newsletter summarizing integration plans was more widely distributed; about 50
faculty are currently involved in working committees in different areas implementing IDP
planning; and SZU leadership conducts regular briefings to the senates of all member HEI
senates on the status of IDP plans.
G. Issues
8.    Enrollment growth. The SZU plan is based on the assumption that enrollment will grow
by 20%. This growth is expected to be driven by two factors: (a) the current and projected
excess demand of qualified applicants to admission places; and (b) the attraction of proposed
new programs, most of which are shorter college and post secondary. SZU's financial
assumption on enrollment is that support for students admitted to new government funded
programs will be financed by reallocation of currently authorized places. Any additional
enrollment growth is assumed to be self-financed. The plan should document its basis for
assuming that growth can be finance with user charges. It should estimate the amount likely to
be charged and report its reasons for expecting students to be willing and able to pay these rates.



Annex 7
Page 4
9.    Degree structure. The proposed new academic programs are planned to have a broader,
more flexible curriculum base particularly in the beginning years. This would ensure greater
inter-program mobility and also allow larger average class size. However, many of the proposed
degree programs appear to maintain a tradition of narrowly defined, specialized fields. The plan
should indicate the measures that are being taken to produce a more flexible curriculum and
report the expected effect on enrollments and mobility among programs of study.
10.   Academic planning. While the goals of cooperation and consolidation have been set
forth, the plan for academic consolidation is much more gradual than other components of the
IDP. The planned mechanism to achieve academic restructuring is the budget reallocation
method adopted coupled with projected enrollment growth patterns. The two combined will
provide the direction and leverage for change. More planning needs to take place, however,
between parallel university and college level faculties and departments.
11.   Branch HEIs. Some legal issues with respect to the rights of branches of other HEls to
join SZU and ownership of land (sports fields and military barracks) need clarification and
resolution.



Annex 7
Page 5
KECSKEMET COLLEGE
A. Assessment of Problems and Opportunities
1.    Kecskemet institutions reflect problems characteristic of all Hungarian colleges and
universities as summarized in the Szeged University IDP summary. Kecskemet is particularly
challenged by a physical development plan that must reconcile split site development and
planning around changes in the structure and requirements for teachers. Kecskemet institutions
see themselves in an area of potential growth (close to Budapest) and are willing to launch
relatively radical academic forms to give them a position of strength in training for a changing
labor market in Hungary. They see their willingness to make these changes as a competitive
strength.
B. Mission Statement
2.    Three founding colleges, joined more recently by a fourth, and the primary associated
institution constitute the proposed Kecskemet College: (a) Kecskemet College of Education or
KETIF (790 full-time students); (b) Kecskemet College of Mechanical Engineering and
Automation or GAMF (1,430 full-time students); (c) College of Horticulture or KEEKFK (383
full-time students); and (d) the International Ceramics Studio. Kecskemet College is a regional
college committed to expanded educational opportunities for the region at the pre-university,
post secondary vocational, and college level of training in diploma and short-term programs in
teaching training (kindergarten and primary levels), horticultural, engineering and automation,
management, ceramics and postgraduate teaching training through an affiliated Pedagogy
Institute.
C. Objectives of the Institutional Development Plan (IDP)
3.    The Kecskemet IDP outlines 11 strategic goals over a five year period and sets forth
plans to achieve them. These goals cluster around the following areas: (a) full administrative and
academic integration including a commitment to better planning and centralized management;
(b) enhancing student success through centralized, comprehensive student support services; (c)
establishment of a new Common College responsible for initial, general education across
faculties; and (d) strategic expansion of academic programs into informatics and business.
D. Means and Distinguishing Features
4.    Clearly the most innovative and distinctive means of achieving both academic integration
and greater flexibility for students in training programs is the proposed "Common College" or
"Common Training Institutes" where all matriculated students would receive their common or
general education classes from faculty assigned to this college. "Institutes" or quasi-departments



Annex 7
Page 6
withirL the Common College include: Foreign Language and Communication Center; Institute of
Social Sciences; Institute of Creative Arts; Institute of Human Development; Institute of
European Studies; Institute of Management and Business Studies; Institute of Further Education;
Cultural and Technology Transfer Center; Institute of Information Technology; and Institute of
Physical Education, Recreation and Sports. These Institutes are being formed from duplicative,
and unique units in the three constituent colleges as well as newly proposed units (e.g., the
Institutes of European Studies, and of Management and Business Studies).
5.    Administrative consolidation and efficiencies are outlined through identification of
overlapping functional units with staffing levels identified. Planned nonacademic staffing levels
in the 'three colleges are projected to decline by about 13% (242 to 212) over the next four years
which would bring non academic to academic staff ratios down from the current 1.39:1 to 0.9:1
by 20Ci 1. This reduction, however, is driven in large measure by increasing academic staff
without correspondingly increasing in non academic staff.
6.    Academic consolidation plans are reasonably detailed for the stage of planning at
Kecskemet. An overall redundancy chart as well as appendices for each institute describe
consol'idated organizational structures for these faculties. Overall student to faculty ratios are
shown moving from the current 15:1 to 20:1 by 2001. The means of achieving both higher S/F
ratios and diversifying training to meet emerging labor market needs is an aggressive enrollment
growth strategy in the range of 60% over the next four years with 26% increase in academic
staff.
E. Investment Proposals
7.    The connection between and justification for the investment plan and the academic
strategy outlined in the IDP needs to be strengthened. The investment plan outlined in the body
of the IDP is very general in the body of the report and in the Annexes. In addition, financial
plan summary tables, while containing both capital and operating budget figures, do not
adequately draw the connections between academic and investment plans. In terms of capital
expenditures, it appears from Annex IV (page 27) that the highest priorities are for development
of student hostels at the Homokbanya Barracks (HUF 160,000,000 in 1997 and HUF
269,000,000 in 1998). Reconstruction of others buildings and infrastructure in these former
Russian Army barracks for academic purposes is also planned beginning in 1998 but how the
academic plan is driving these renovations is not yet entirely.
F. Strengths
8.    The principal strengths of the Kecskemet College strategy are (a) its innovative
"Common College" restructuring to integrate duplicative programs in the three colleges that
allow greater student flexibility in preparing for a choice of and transferability among more
specialized training programs; and (b) that academic planning has evidently occurred at the
faculty/departmental level which bodes well for successful implementation.



Annex 7
Page 7
G. Issues
9.Linking the IDP and investment priorities. The investment priorities that have been outlined
need to be linked to the IDP and the rationale for setting priorities needs to be made more
explicit.
10. Enrollment growth. Projected full-time student growth in teacher training needs to be re-
examined in light of labor market projections and studies conducted by the FTT's work on
projected growth by field of study. With the number of state-financed, first-year admissions
holding constant at 42,000 for next year and with the overall reduction in places for teacher
training, Kecskemet planning must either assume that projected substantial increases in this field
will be self-funded or reduce the projections. While reduction of the projections would not
impact substantially the justification for facility needs, it will mean reassessing efficiency targets.
Similarly, the projections of rapid growth in enrollments in public health, medical technology,
and distance education in agriculture need to be defended more thoroughly.
1 I.Branch HEI. The College of Horticulture's status as a branch of the Horticulture University in
Budapest presently limits its participation to a federation member only rather than full
integration. As is the case in Szeged, the legal status of branches needs to be clarified and
resolved to allow the Horticulture College to proceed with full integration planning.
12.Regional center and distance education. Kecskemet College's role in the region and its
cooperation with other smaller institutions offers an interesting model for further development.
The Technical College has develop centers east and northeast of Kecskemet with technical
secondary schools. Building and extending programs to smaller institutions in the country is an
area of planning that should be pursued further.
13. Degree structure. While there is expressed interest and intent to broaden degree structures,
most of the new programs proposed in the IDP reflect quite narrow fields of specialization. An
important issue here, and at all HEIs, is the perception that the labor market requires such
specialization. Are there other obstacles to reform in this area and what needs to be done to
overcome them, if there are?



Annex 7
Page 8
DEBRECEN UNIVERSITY
A. Assessment of Problems and Opportunities
1.    Debrecen institutions reflect the same basic problems characteristic of all Hungarian
colleges and universities and listed in the Szeged IDP summary. Although Debrecen University
(DU) was once an single university complex and even though the constituent institutions have
developed several cooperative programs in recent years, the institutions have been more of a
federation, in terms of the state of their planning, than the other sites. Federation thinking and
politics have forestalled much detailed planning on both academic and administrative
consolidation. Physical dispersion of member institutions also poses more of a challenge than it
does ait some other sites.
2.    DU serves a large geographical region and has an important economic development, as
well as educational role. Its history and its breadth of offerings are both a strength and potential
weakness. While the strengths are obvious, the weakness may be in the difficulty of developing
focus and integrated, selective priorities. Federations tend to produce plans that distribute
benefits broadly rather than selectively. A very encouraging sign in the IDP is the programmatic
focus on molecular life sciences. Another opportunity explored to some extent in the IDP is the
increased use of distant teaching and branches in the region.
B. Mission Statement
3.    Five institutions constitute the proposed Debrecen Urniversity: (a) Debrecen University of
Agriculture or DATE (955 students); (b) University Medical School of Debrecen or DOTE
(2,520 students); (c) Debrecen University of Reformed Theology (243 students); (d) Kossuth
Lajos University or KLTE (9,902 students); and (e) Debrecen Section of the Ferenc Liszt
Musical Academy (241 students). The Nuclear Research Insititute of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences is an associate member. The mission of the integrated DU is to deliver a broad range
of postgraduate, graduate and short-term training programs in the liberal arts and science,
medicine, agriculture and teacher training. DU serves as the educational and research center of
the large eastern region of Hungary and beyond for the majority of its programs and national
institution in many of its advanced level programs.
C. Objectives of the Institutional Develolpment Plan (IDP)
4.    DU's IDP outlines a plan to: (a) integrate the Debrecen institutions; (b) make the
structure of DU's academic programs more flexible and responsive to the labor market; (c)
develop an consolidated and more efficient management system; (d) increase non-state resources;
and (e) use existing resource more efficiently.



Annex 7
Page 9
D. Means and Distinguishing Features
5.    Substantial progress has been made in recent months in integrative thinking and planning
both academically and administratively in what will be the third largest university in Hungary.
DU's strategies to achieve their objectives are as follows:
6.    Reorganize academic programs by: (a) shifting from emphasis on M.S. to B.S. and to
shorter-term post secondary certificate programs, allowing students shorter options and more
flexibility at beginning year to decide and to transfer; (b) adding new programs attractive to
developing labor market; (c) reducing or phase out older programs with low student demand by
means of a newly created Academic Program Committee of the Senate; (d) increasing use of
distance education; and (e) creating an investment fund for new programs.
7.    Expand credit system and normalize teaching loads. Expansion of the current unit or
credit system in some programs will allow greater transferability, definition of teaching loads and
further reduction in required class hours. Required classroom hours have been reduced 15 to
30% in different areas and a goal has been set for a further 10% reduction. A teaching load
policy has been defined as 11 class hours per week for teaching assistants and assistant
professors and 6 hours per week for associate and full professors.
8.    Quality improvements. Emphasis here is placed on improving libraries and on
developing a research strategy and plan.
9.    Efficiency (or cost reduction) improvement have been proposed by (a) enrollment growth
with lower than proportional growth in staff; (b) academic program consolidation via three
models-- (i) interinstitutional programs, (ii) formation of institutes, and (iii) mergers of
departmental libraries into the planned new library; (c) administrative consolidation estimated to
save approximately MHUF 36 through 20% reductions in financial services, buildings
maintenance and services personnel; (d) increasing S/F ratios; and (e) building new
administrative computing systems.
10.   Non-state resources increased principally through tuition-based program expansion and
through partnerships with the developing private sector.
11.   Some of the distinguishing features of DU's IDP are its emphasis on building on
strengths through a developmental focus on molecular life sciences; its considerable attention
and analysis of labor market needs; its detailed projections of enrollment, staff and finances; and
the advanced stages of physical planning and consolidation through its acquisition of the Kassai
Street Campus property.



Annex 7
Page 10
E. Investment Proposals
12.   DU's top investment priorities:
(a) The construction of a Life Science Building ancl Library
Estimated total cost: MHUF 3000; non-state portion MHUF 123
(b) Introduction of new programs/facilities at Kassai Street Campus (classrooms, healtl
science education center and faculty of law)
Estimated total cost: MHUF 910; non-state portion MHUF 190
(c) Development of a Regional Center (Rural/landscape Development and Distance
Education). Estimated total cost: MHUF 400; non-state portion MHUF 60
(d) Development Program of now(Environmental Studies, Music Center, etc.)
Estimated total cost: MHUF 1043; non-state portion: MHUF 100
(e) Construction of ports Facilities: cost: MHUF 50; non-state portion: MHUF 53
F. Strengths
13.   The IDP reflects considerable progress in Debrecen's thinking of itself as a loose
federation to real integration. Substantial analyses have been made with respect to labor markets
of the region and their role generally in regional development. DATE, DOTE and some faculties
at KLTE have planned and implemented credit systems. The faculty of sciences at KLTE have
limited core curricular requirements to 50 to 70% depending on major and a target of 25 to 30%
of elective classes in each curriculum has been set. Class contact hours have been reduced from
15% to 30% over the last five years; and teaching&hour policies have been adopted.
G. Issues
14.   Links between the IDP and investment priorities. The criteria used to establish
investment priorities should be made explicit and should be linked to the IDP.
15.   Enrollment. The Debrecen IDP projects different enrollment growth scenarios and makes
a strong case for strong enrollment growth. An important policy issue raised is whether pilot
integration sites should be given a preferred position in the allocation of state-funded positions.
Since many of the efficiency targets are dependent upon strong enrollment growth, continuing
monitoring of enrollment rates and modification of plans is important. Projected growth in
DATE], for example, runs counter to decisions being made on reductions in the field of
agriculture at least for state funds.
16.   Degree structures. As in the case of other sites, the proposed new degree programs reflect
a high degree of specialization. DATE, for example, had one degree program (agricultural
engineer) with 16 specializations until 1995 when additional degree programs began to be
introduced, each with specializations. The principal issue here is whether, in the intermediate



Annex 7
Page I I
and long run, the labor market will require less specialization and more broadly-based, flexible
training.
17.   Budget reallocation. The reallocation model developed by KLTE needs be more fully
discussed, modified and prepared for implementation.
18.   Academic planning. The Academic Program Committee and the new system proposed
and planned for implementation later this year represents a good, operating level strategy to
begin the difficult task of consolidations. The plan, however, needs a much broader discussion
and understanding among faculties.






Annex 8
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
Assessment of the situation
1.    General agreement exists concerning the need of Hungary's Higher Education
Institutions (HEIs) for four types of computerized administrative support systems, namely -
in order of priority - (i) financing, (ii) student registration, (iii) research registry, and (iv)
premises management. Currently, HEIs employ individual computer systems for financing
and student registry, but the systems are generally considered aged and rather makeshift.
The prospects for upgrading these systems to a level that would be adequate to meet the
increasing and rapidly changing needs of aggregate data management are very limited.
2.    The Government has tried to address the need for new management information
systems (MISs) at HEIs through several FEFA initiatives. Under the major one of these
FEFA projects, server and network hardware and software totaling about $1 million were
procured for six universities under the World Bank's Human Resources loan, and a locally.
i.e., FEFA, funded effort under the acronym KEFIR' was initiated to develop packaged
software for a financial management and a student registration system. However, the
FEFA funding proved inadequate, even for a full-scope financial management system, the
development of which, therefore, had to be broken into two phases. To date, only the first
phase has been implemented. No resources were left to procure the development of the
student registration system. As a consequence, the six universities covered by this earlier
project were not able to use the hardware procured from the loan in 1995 for running
KEFIR as the investment had intended, though they obviously did not let the equipment sit
idle.2 The development of phase 1 of the financial management portion of KEFIR
commenced in June 1996 and currently continues. Through another FEFA-funded
initiative, development of a research registry system for HEIs has been contracted and is
said to be near completion. This is a system that would allow an HEI to record the
disciplines it researches and the areas of specialization of the academic staff, as well as
provide an overview of the research carried out under grants. In addition, FEFA funds
efforts toward acquiring the specific computer equipment for MIS and other informatics
requirements of HEIs.
3.    Both the phase I financial management and the research registry system
developments were carried out--after a tendering process -- by MATE Rt. (Hungarian
Telematics Co.), a company managed, owned and staffed at least partly by academic staff
KEFIR stands for Korszeru Elektronikus Felsooktatasi Informatikai Rendszer, or Modem Electronic
Information System for Higher Education Institutions.
2  For example, the Budapest University of Economics integrated the server they received into the
country-wide student admission system which the University operates on behalf of the Government.



Annex 8
Page 2
of the Technical University of Budapest, the same HEI which was designated as the first
host site for the financial management system.3 While project management and product
acceptance are under the purview of committees that include other HEls, the closeness of
thie contractor to the principal of the procurement has given rise to concerns by outsiders
about conflicts of interest, and this is in addition to the operational problems faced by the
developers due to the unresolved situation with phase 24 and other contractual issues related
to making the product operational in HEIs. However, it appears that the Ministry of
Culture and Education (MOE) together with FEFA and MATE are currently in the process
of finding a solution to all open issues, including (a) completion of the financial system's
development, (b) establishment of the framework and resolution of the resource needs for
adapting the system to individual HEls, including installation, (c) achievement of a similar
solution for the research registry software, and (d) initiating the development of the student
registration system, a point that is entirely separate from the issues with MATE. This
overall solution may in future include the creation by MOE of a public (non-profit)
company that would subsequently distribute, adapt, and further develop the various
standard MIS packages for Hungarian HEIs including KEFIR.
4.     During the KEFIR procurement with its attendant delays, pressure naturally built up
at HEIs to consider alternatives in view of their unsatisfactory existing MIS systems.
However, as of now, the national level (MOE, FEFA, Informatics Association for
Hungarian Higher Education) seems to have reconfirmed the original concept of single
"home-grown" solutions, i.e., in this case, the software developments by MATE. Recent
considerations, backed up by a detailed audit of the financial system development under
K]EFIR, appear to have alleviated concerns about the suitability and flexibility of this
software, the commercial viability of the project, MATE itself, and the software platform
used (ORACLE). MATE would reportedly provide for alternative data base management
system products, a fact which would ensure that competitive purchasing of equipment and
system software would be feasible for the HEIs. In contrast, the trial of a commercial
software package for financial management carried out by the Budapest University of
Economics ended without success. At present, the MATE software not only looks
attractive in terms of cost, but it could also ensure a single solution for the HEIs with
corresponding economies of scale and the potential for a much-facilitated national level
interface for the individual HEI systems. Conversely, commercial or other alternatives
currently appear prohibitively expensive or time-consumiing. This World Bank project,
therefore, assumes that the participating HEIs would implement the financial and research
3   The second designated institution to receive the financial system, i.e., the so-called reference site, is the
Kossuth Lajos University in Debrecen. For the student registration system, the host site would have
been the Janus Pannonius University in Pecs, while the J6zsef Attila University in Szeged was
designated as the reference site. These four "pilot" sites for KEFIR received somewhat larger sums
from the $1 million loan funds than the two remaining sites which were the E6tvbs L6rand University
and the University of Economics, both in Budapest.
4   The problems here seem to be that the system would not be complete and useful without the
functionality to be developed in phase 2, and that resolution of the phase 2 contract was envisaged as
part of the phase I contract negotiations in early 1996 (but remained pending at the time of the appraisal
mission in May/June 1977).



Annex 8
Page 3
registry software packages developed by MATE, and that a single solution would be
procured or otherwise acquired under the aegis of FEFA for the student registry and
premises management components as well. The project strategy includes two checkpoints
in the form of two studies within the first 18 months, which would allow verification of the
single package approach, or, if necessary, modify the course of the MIS component.
Objectives and issues to be addressed
5.     The need for a strategy. Initiatives such as the KEFIR and other FEFA projects
have benefited from the combined wisdom of the managerial and technical committees that
were consulted in their identification and realization. However, a dedicated analytical
effort was lacking to establish policies and a comprehensive strategy for information
systems in Hungarian higher education. An MIS strategy for higher education would
clarify questions such as the types of data that are needed locally versus nationally to
support management and policy development, the appropriateness of supporting single
versus multiple MIS software packages, and the scope for identifying process and structural
simplifications at HEIs through further studies. Without some strategic directions, it would
remain difficult to determine the most effective allocation of resources, and to gain a
national level perspective on the data to be collected and stored. The first major MIS task
under the project would thus be the elaboration of policies and a strategy for higher
education MISs in Hungary.
6.     Support to the integration process. The project would provide the tools for the
participating HEIs to manage themselves more efficiently and effectively by financing the
procurement of servers, network, and workstation equipment, the adaptation and
implementation of application software, and the training of technical, administrative and
management staff. One of the key elements of the integration of HEIs under the project
would be the consolidation of administrative and management functions and the resulting
efficiency gains. Modem information technology can assist through more efficient work
processes and structures. The development of user requirements for KEFIR has already led
to the identification of process improvements, but additional gains or a corroboration of the
MIS approach could be derived from an in-depth process review and development of user
requirements5 for one of the integrating HEIs by an experienced and impartial international
consulting firm.
7.     Complementing the physical renewal efforts. Civil works financed under the
project (administrative facilities, libraries and teaching facilities, such as the informatics
5   Requirement studies include a comprehensive enumeration of the business processes (whether
mandated or desired) of an organization, the identification of current organizational responsibilities for
decisions, actions or consultation, consideration of alternatives for redesigning processes for efficiency
and simplicity, and elaboration of the necessary structural changes. Typical technical outputs of a
requirements analysis are general workflow diagrams for the agreed ideal solution, a first level (i.e.,
coarse) data definition, the interactive functions which the MIS should support and the reports it should
generate, as well as the additional information technology requirements (hardware, software, staff,
training, time) for realizing the system.



Annex 8
Page 4
classrooms of the integrated HEIs) would all receive up-to-date wiring for telephones and
Local Area Networks (LANs) as part of the construction investments. A commensurate
eifort is required in upgrading network, library computing, and informatics classroom
equipment for the same buildings, and replacing that part of the existing information
technology of the integrating HEIs that is insufficient or outdated. This would also achieve
a much-needed increase in internal computer networking capacity of the participating HEIs.
8.    Capturing national level benefits. Virtual universal recognition exists in Hungarian
Higher Education of the need for, and the corresponding benefits that would come from,
national level access to certain data from HEIs. Indeed, current discussions under the lead
of MOE point to a central computer facility for higher education that would include the
aclmissions system operated by the Budapest University of Economics, that in the future
would also serve as a possible clearing house for registered students and a center for
consolidated budget and expenditure data for the total system of Higher Education. While
investments under the loan would be dedicated to the participating integrating HEIs, it
would be fully consistent with the project's MIS objectives to allocate funding towards
"central" hardware and to application software development, and to augment this funding
with some investments in networking between the center and the HEIs.
Implementation components
9.    The following list is basically chronological, although some tasks would repeat
themselves as new HEIs come into the project. In these cases, specific starting times with
any one participating HEI would be determined by the readiness of Institutional
Development Plans (IDPs) and Capital Investment Plans (CIPs). Table 7-1 presents the
overall investment estimates, while Table 7-2 distributes these estimates over the expected
six years of the loan.
A. Specialist in the Project Management Unit (PMU). This specialist would assist the
required vetting by FEFA of the investment proposals for MIS implementation by
participating HEIs. He or she would advise on procurement related to MIS and the
computer equipment for new buildings, or on combining the procurements for
several HEIs. The specialist could also assume additional functions in the PMU.
The position might be suitable for local hiring, and is contained in the estimates for
PMU operations costs.
B. Strategy Study on HEI and National MIS Needs. The result of the study would be
advice on policies regarding HEI MISs and a national level MIS. The study would
answer questions on: (a) the specific data which HEI MISs would need to
incorporate in order to support efficient management and resource use, (b) data that
would be needed on the national level for the same purposes, and for supporting the
development of more effective government policies, (c) the identification of factors
(aggregated data or correlations) that could define the efficiency of individual HEIs
and the same for the country as a whole, (d) the interface requirements between the
various systems (finance, student registration, etc.) and between an HEI and the
national level, (e) additional MIS needs of medical and other specialized faculties,



Annex 8
Page 5
(f) needs, if any, for different versions of financial software (e.g., a "light" version
for smaller HEIs), and (g) advisability of single solutions such as KEFIR versus
enabling competing solutions. The study would include an assessment of the need
for a business process redesign and requirements analysis of integrating HEIs. If
such a need were confirmed, the study would produce the terms of reference for
activity H below. The strategy study should ideally be carried out by a consulting
firm with international experience. About 3 weeks in the country and a total of 40
staffweeks out of the technical assistance category of funding are estimated, at a
total cost of $300,000. The task should be carried out in the first half of 1998.
C. Procurement of MIS Computer Equipment for HEIs. Procurement of computer
equipment for the 8 to 9 integrating HEIs would include servers, operating system
and database software, workstations, printers, and any network equipment and
software needed to combine these into a system. For each HEI, the configuration
should be sufficient to run all planned MISs, such as for finance, student
registration, research registry, and premises management. The requirements would
differ depending on the size of the institutions, but based on cost projections from
the MATE software developers the estimates assume an average of 40 workstations.
In the assumed scenario of a single solution based on the MATE package, the HEIs
that are ready and eligible to receive funding under the loan, in consultation with
the provider of the MATE software, would prepare detailed equipment lists, giving
consideration to the computer facilities they already have and would need given
their size and requirements, in consultation with the provider of the MATE
software. Previously procured equipment such as for Szeged and Debrecen might
be reused and thereby reduce overall costs somewhat, but the scope for such reuse is
considered negligible. Any procurement would be contingent upon a guarantee that
the adaptation process of the financial management system for the specific HEI
could be launched (see task D below) and that the customized software would be
ready for installation at the time of delivery of the server(s). For each participating
HEI, the estimates assume $300,000 total, comprising $100,000 for the server(s),
$100,000 for workstations and printers, $50,000 for standard software, and $50,000
for network equipment. This translates into a total estimate for 9 project HEIs of
$2.7 million funding from the loan.
D. Implementation of KEFIR Financial Software at HEIs. This task would include the
adaptation of the general user requirements of 1996 (which guided the software
development contract with MATE) to the needs of each HEI, corresponding
adaptation of the application software, installation and initial on-site support, and
training in the use of the software for technical, user and management staff of the
HEI. All these services would be provided by the entity commissioned to adapt and
distribute the financial management software to Hungarian HEIs, at this stage
presumably MATE. The estimates derive from MATE and are for average
integrated HEIs. Due to the linkage between MATE and the Technical University
of Budapest, local funding would need to be employed for this component. The
estimate is $200,000 equivalent per participating HEI, or $1.8 million total.



Annex 8
Page 6
E. Development of a Student Registration System. For this task, the specifications of
1995 would need to be updated. The revised specifications should also
accommodate future features of Hungarian Higher Education such as course credits
and student tuition fees (or appropriate linkages to the financial system). The
estimate assumes a one time amount of $600,000 for development including the
elaboration of revised specifications and user requirements, and $100,000 per
participating HEI for adaptation, implementation, initial support and user training.
The total estimate for the task thus amounts to $1.5 mnillion which can be financed
from loan funds provided the tendering addresses firms without commercial linkage
to universities or other public entities involved in the World Bank project.
F. Implementation of the Research Registry System. This task would comprise the
completion of development of the related MATE software, followed by adaptation,
implementation, initial support and training at project HEIs. For the same reasons
as given under the task for financial software, it is assumed that all funding would
be local. Since development of the software is being finished with existing funds
(pre-project), only the implementation costs per HEI apply. Estimated at $50,000
equivalent per site, the total for 9 HEIs would be $450,000.
G. Development of a Premises Management System. This would not only comprise a
property inventory for each HEI, but would also function for the scheduling of class
and conference rooms. As a contractor would need to be selected competitively,
funding could be through the loan. The task's size and nature would make it
suitable for national competitive bidding (NCB). Hungarian firms would not only
have an edge in understanding the requirements of this application system, but the
NCB approach would also foster the furthering of such in-country capability. The
estimate is $200,000 for the development effort, and $30,000 for the
implementation at each site, for a total of $470,000.
H. Requirements Analysis for an Integrated HEI. Subject to confirmation by task B, a
detailed requirements analysis and business process redesign should be carried out
for at least one of the participating integrating HEIs. This task would serve as the
second checkpoint -- the first having been taskB -- for ensuring that the KEFIR
effort would be capable of supporting the expected reorganizations and efficiencies
resulting from integration. For reasons of impartiality, the task should be carried
out by a competitively procured, internationally experienced, consulting firm. An
obvious HEI candidate to serve as the client or principal for the task would be the
Szeged federation, unless this HEI would have to install new financial software
earlier due to pressing needs. In the latter case, the federation in Debrecen could be
a candidate for the study. The estimated costs are $500,000 (60 to 70 staffweeks
plus expenses), financed from the loan's technical assistance allocation. While this
is listed only as task H, an HEI candidate for it should be secured as soon as
possible, and work could be started immediately upoIn completion of task B.
I. Verification of the Requirements Analysis. This would be a relatively
straightforward comparison of the results of taskH against the requirements of two
subsequent HEIs in the project. The findings from tasks B, H, and I, might lead to



Annex 8
Page 7
a redesign of some or all of the investment tasks of the MIS component of the loan.
Achieving this possibility is the very purpose of these tasks which would thus serve
to alleviate the risks inherent in the MIS implementation plan (i.e., the risks due to
the single solution dating from 1994/95), and strengthen the confidence for the
selected approach. This task would probably be handled as part of, or addendum to,
the contract for task H The estimated costs are $100,000 per HEI, or $200,000
total.
J. Procurement of Informatics Equipment for Teaching and Research. The
investments under the project in new and refurbished buildings including telephone
and LAN pre-wiring, would require commensurate renewal in PABX, networking.
library informatics, and computer classroom equipment. This would ensure that
information technology that is clearly obsolete or insufficient would be replaced
and upgraded. In most cases, the investments would support joint facilities of the
integrating universities. The investments would also lead to a generally improved
computer networking and workstation environment for the participating institutions,
an outcome that would in turn widen the access to the new MISs.6 Project HEIs
would have to furnish detailed capital investment plans and related justification
(e.g., obsolescence, or new services such as in the libraries) which would be
approved through the general vetting process defined for this project. Based on the
draft implementation plans already produced by the Szeged, Debrecen, and
Kecskemet federations, the non-MIS related information technology upgrade needs
are estimated to range from $700,000 to $1.2 million per project HEI. The average
allocation is assumed as $1 million per HEI, distributed roughly as 50-70% for
information infrastructure (backbone, network equipment, departmental
workstations/PCs, web servers), 10-20% for library upgrading (servers, CD
equipment, electronic libraries), and 20-30% for teaching and research equipment
(mostly workstations/PCs, e.g., computer classrooms). The total funding
requirements for 9 HEIs would thus amount to $9 million of loan funds.
K. Investment in National Level Application Systems. This task would provide
funding for modest efforts to aggregate data from HEIs at the national level. The
estimates include funding for the development of central MIS software that would
interface with the HEI's finance, student registration, research registry, and
premises management systems, and thereby provide consolidated figures supporting
national decision making. This component is estimated at $1 million. A second
component would provide up to $1 million funding to MOE or a subcontracted
institution (such as the Budapest University of Economics or a new public
company) for computer equipment to operate a national level system. Finally,
about $500,000 is estimated to effect the required improvements in wide area
6   Apart from the fact that these "infrastructural" improvements would allow a more widespread and
efficient access to the MiSs of the HEIs and that in some cases procurement could be combined, there is
no other linkage to task C. This subcomponent would simply enable an upgrading of the information
technology supporting research and teaching so that obsolete equipment can be replaced when the new
construction becomes available.



Annex 8
Page 8
networking at the center and the interconnected HEIs. Funding from the loan for
this subcomponent would thus amount to a tota]l of $2.5 million.
Table 7-1 -- MIS Component
Cost Estimates by Task and Funding Category
Cost Estimates ($'000 equiv.)  Procurmt.
Local      Loan   Loan   Method
Funding    (TA) (Equipm.)
A. PMU Specialist (incl. in PMUestimate)
B. Strategy Study on MIS for HEIs                      300            QCBS
C. Computer Equipment for MIS                                 2.700     ICB
D. Financial System Implementation          1,800                      Govt.
E. Student Registry DevelopmentlImpl.                         1.500     ICB
F. Research Registry Implementation           450                      Govt.
G. Premises Mgt. System Dev./Impl.                              470    NCB
H. Requirements Analysis for One HEI                   500            QCBS
I. Requirements Verification for 2 HEIs               200             with H
J. . Informatics Equipmt. for Teaching/Res.                   9,000     ICB
K). National Level Application Systems                        2.500  I&NCB
Totals                                  2,250    1,000   16,170
MIS Component Total                                               19,420
Legend:
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
QCBS        Quality-Cost Based Selection of Consulting Firm



Annex 9
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
Background
I .    Management of HEls in the previous political regime was concentrated at the ministry
level and was highly political in its character. Professional management capabilities at all levels
in the higher education system constitute a limitation on the development and implementation of
both administrative and academic reforms. In addition, the introduction of new intermediate
bodies between the MOE and HEIs, such as the Higher Education Scientific Council (HESC), to
perform important national-level functions requires training at both policy and staff levels. A
variety of training programs tailored to these audiences would provide the following benefits:
D raise the quality and objectivity of national-level plans and policy initiatives, as well as the
review of institutional plans and proposals;
* improve the administrative and business practices of HEIs making them more efficient,
providing services heretofore lacking, and building confidence on the part of Ministries that
will allow greater measures of financial autonomy; and
* improve the quality of administrative processes and levels of understanding both within HEls
and between HEIs, the government and the public.
Objectives and Principles
2.    The primary objective of management development programs within the project is to raise
the level of professional administrative competence in higher education. Principles to guide the
achievement of this objectives include
* tailoring programs to specific needs of different audiences;
* designing programs to meet immediate needs for producing planning and management
products or documents essential to the reforms;
* designing programs which broadly address the development management skills and expose
Hungarian administrators to leading models of reform internationally;
* building in-country training capacities; and
* coordinating the development of new programs with existing and planned programs of OECD
and other agencies of the European Union.
3.    The matrix on the following page provides an overview of both the audiences and types of
training programs outlined to meet these objectives.



Annex 9
Page 2
MANAGEMENT TRAINING
TYPE OF TRAINING
National Type Bodies       Target Groups    Reform      Continuing     Degree    Fellowships   Twinning
Size        Products    Education    Programs       Abroad        Partners
Ministry of Education
Policy level                      2       X            X                          X            x
Staff                            10       X            X                          X            X
FTT: Board                            15       X            X                                       X
Staff                                     X            X                          X            X
FEFA: Board                           15                    X                                       X
Staff                            10       X            X                          X            X
HAC: Board                            15                    X                                       X
Staff                             3       X            X                          X            X
Sub lTotal                            70
INSTITUTIONS
HEI (Integrating)                                                                                   X
Rectors/Directors                   10                    X                          X
Vice Rectors/Dir                    30       X            X                          X
Seniior Admin                       50       X            X                          X
Faculty Heads                      200       X            X
Senate members                     100       X            X                          x
Student leaders                     30       X            X
Sub Total                            420
HEI (internal integration)                                                                          X
Rectors/Directors                    5                    x                          x
Vice Rectors/Dir                    15       X            X                          X
Senior Admin                        30       X            X                          X
Faculty Heads                       50       X            X
Senate members                      30       X            X                          X
Student leaders                     15       X            X
Sub Total                            145
Private! HE]
Directors                            5                    X                          X
Senior Admin                        20                    X                          X
Dept Heads                          20                    X
Sub Tctal                             45
New Entrants to Admin
Senior staff                        20       X            X             X            X            X
Young entrants                      30       X            X             X            X            X
Sub Total                             50
Total                                730



Annex 9
Page 3
Target Groups
4.    Various national bodies, both at the board or policy level and at the professional staff
level, will benefit from various types of training opportunities. Since many of the board and staff
functions (HESC, HAC and NCC) are relatively new in Hungary, exposure in theory and practice
to these functions in other settings would be invaluable in gaining a vision of the role and
functions to be performed.
5.    Integrating sites. HEIs currently designated or which will participate in the next rounds of
integrating sites need both management training and implementation assistance. These audiences
would benefit particularly from reform-specific product training ranging from developrment and
refinement of IDPs, to curricular planning.
6.    Private HEIs. All appropriate training opportunities should be open to private HEI's as a
means of strengthening Hungary's private HEIs sector and of promoting interaction and learning
between the two sectors. In addition, special training seminars should be targeted to private HEI
in areas such as marketing and assessment.
7.    Non-integrating HEIs. Many efficiencies and better practices are achievable in non-
integrating sites. Participation along with other audiences in the variety of types of training
outlined should be open to these HEIs as well as designing special programs targeted to their
specific needs.
8.    New entrants. The human resources strategy for staffing national agencies and HEIs in
Hungary is both to train existing personnel and recruit new entrants. New entrants here are
divided between more senior level staff coming from the ranks of academic staff of HEIs and
younger persons recruited from college and university graduates or from other sectors of
employment such as government or the private sector. In the short-run, recruiting academic staff
who may wish to make a career change into administration may provide a badly needed pool
from which to select capable administrators who would need training but not necessarily
additional degrees.
9.    Other special audiences might also be targeted around important policy issues. For
example, as the Hungarian government begins to focus on the structure and policies of research in
the higher education sector and the Academy of Science, training seminars or study tours to
countries that have dealt with similar transformations would be very valuable.
Types of Management Training
10.   Reform Policies and Products. These training modules would focus on specific policies
and products that are a part of the planning and implementation of refcrms and investments in
Hungary, as follows:



Annex 9
Page 4
* Policy papers
* Strategic/mid-range development plans
* Business Plans
* Institutional Development Plans (IDPs)
* Capital Investment Plans
* Performance indicators
* Space planning and utilization studies
* Faculty workload analyses
* Academic plans
* Resource reallocation models
11.   The typical format of this type of training is to select teams from national bodies or HEIs
to receive training on, and actually develop a particular product. The team is introduced to the
concepts underlying the product and is then tutored throughl its development. Instruction sezsions
are separated by sufficient time for the team to develop further the product at their home
institution or agency, including collection and analyses of data, writing drafts, and
consu,ltationwith appropriate authorities. The length of these modules varies with the product
under development. Development of Institutional Development Plans (IDPs), for example, is
projected to occur in six training sessions over a period of about a year.
12.   Continuing education. This type of training reflects classic modes of management
training for existing practitioners, i.e., seminars or workshops on particular topics. Training
modules will range from short-term (half-day) to longer-term (three-day) and some may even be
linked to a series of increasingly advanced treatments of the topic. Topics for continuing
education include the following:
3 Role and functions of policy intermediary and policy boards
* Needs assessment methods
- Planning methods
* Financial management
* Conducting policy analyses
* Enrollment modeling and projections
* Quality assurance programs
* Administration of research and development contracts
* Team building and supervision
* Estate and facilities management
* Adult and distance education
* Analytic methods for student data bases
* Analytic methods for human resource data bases
* Private fund raising
* Technology transfer
* Building relations with the private sector
13.   For example, new HESC Board members may participate in a half-day seminar on the role
and functions of intermediary bodies overseeing higher education. Another example is a series of



Annex 9
Page 5
workshops for vice rectors or other administrative directors responsible for the acquisition and
administration of research funds in HEI.
14.   Fellowships and study tours. Experiences abroad in the form of fellowships or study tours
are valuable components of management development. These components would be designed to
give participants exposure to best practices at varying levels depending on the audience. For
example. FTT staff would visit state- and national-level higher education coordinating agencies
to learn how these organizations develop plans, review new program proposals, and conduct
policy studies. Fellowships can provide more in-depth experiences through longer-term stays
with one organization.
15.   The foci of fellowships and study tours should include the following areas:
Fellowships:
* Planning and policy development at the national level
* Management of integration at HEI
* Accreditation processes
* Policy analysis and data management at HEI
* Student loan systems
Study Tours:
* HEI facilities management
* State- and national-level planning and program reviews
* Financial management at HEI
* Performance indicators
* Distance education
* Quality assurance
16.   Twinning. Partnerships between individual colleges or universities abroad are common at
many Hungarian HEIs. The Teacher Training College at Kecskemet, for example, is partnered
with Darby in the U.K. through a three-year grant from the TEMPUS program. Darby is a U.K.
integration site and provides a very useful case of integrating. Other such twinning relationships
would be useful through visits, exchanges of personnel experienced in selected management
areas, systems work, etc.
17.   Technical assistance. The project will finance many forms of technical assistance (TA) as
part of project implementation. Much of this TA will be of great training value to those
participating in the HEI or agency receiving the assistance. While TA is not formally a part of tile
management development component of the project, some TA could be leveraged into broader
training opportunities through selectively broadening participation by persons from other HEI
and/or through workshops where Hungarians who have benefited from TA can share those
experiences with otherPriorities
18.   Priorities need to be set given the extent and complexity of audiences and types of training
experiences. Top priority should be given to the development of products and policies key to the
overall reforms and targeted toward integrating institutions and national reviewing bodies.



Annex 9
Page 6
Training of board members and policy-level personnel and staff at MOE, HESC, NCO and FEFA
is critical to the successful implementation of reforms. Equally important is the training of
administrators and key senate leaders in integrating institutions.
19.   Final priorities would be set by the Advisory Board, but the following Reform Policies
and Product training, are expected to receive high priority:
* Policy papers
* Institutional Development Plans (IDPs)
* Academic plans
* Strategic/mid-range development plans
* Capital investment plans
* Performance indicators
* Space planning and utilization studies
* Resource reallocation models
20.   Of the many continuing education modules to be scheduled, highest priority should
probably be given to the following:
* Role and functions of policy intermediary and policy boards
* Needs assessment methods
* Financial management
* Quality assurance programns
* Team building and supervision
* Estate and facilities management
* Adult and distance education
* Analytic methods for student data bases
* Analytic methods for human resource data bases
21.   There are some existing management training programs in the form of in-country
conferences/seminars, exchange and other visiting programs through various European Union
progranms such as TEMPUS, and other important international programs which provide leading
academic staff to other higher education systems. The management training programs outlined
here are designed to complement rather than duplicate these existing efforts. They should be
designed with this objective in mind.
Administration of Management Training
22.   Advisory board. To assist the PMU in setting priorities, designing appropriate training
modules and identifying resources, an Advisory Board should be appointed by the Minister of
Education and be composed of the following:



Annex 9
Page 7
Deputy State Secretary, Ministry of Culture and Education
Minister of Finance (or designee)
President, Conference of Rectors
President, Conference of Directors
Two representatives from other international training organizations, viz.,
Higher Education Support Program of the Open Society Institute
IMC (International Management Center)
Three HEI representatives (one from a university; one from a college; one
from private HEI sector)
Representative from private industry with experience in corporate training
23.   Project management unit. Overall responsibility for implementation of the management
training program rests with the PMU director on advice from the Advisory Board. The PMU
should let contracts for development of priority training programs and of continuing education
modules as soon as technical assistance funds are available (January 1998). During this same
period, requests should be issued for proposals on fellowships and study tours as one package and
for twinning either with them or separately. Details on the terms of these RFPs are contained in
terms of reference in the Project Implementation Plan.
24.   The Minister of Education should appoint members of the Advisory Board by October
1997 in order for them to become familiar with the program as outlined, offer advice for its
modification and refinement, advise on priorities and review RFPs.
25.   Cost estimates for management training subcomponents are contained in cost tables of the
project.
Staffing
26.   Requirements for staffing management training will vary depending on the type of
training. Training for specific Bank project related products should be designed and guided by a
combination of international experts and Hungarians, often in a team teaching mode. As the
curriculum is refined and as the level of Hungarian experience with these products increases, in-
country expertise should become predominant, thereby reducing costs and creating the basis of an
on-going, stable program. Teaching staff should be selected on the basis of their knowledge of
the specific policy or product to be developed, their ability to work interactively and flexibly with
working groups environments, and their capacity to assist in the production of the product
desired.



Annex 9
Page 8
Evaluation
27.   Three types of assessment of the management training component will occur: (a)
participant evaluation of each course module for the purposes of instructor performance and
structure and value of the module; (b) formative evaluations of the whole range of program
components in 1999 as a part of the general evaluation of the project at Phase II to assist in any
reshaping of program components; and (c) a combined formative and summative evaluation will
occuI- in 2001 just prior the project's general evaluation before Phase III to determine which
compionents have been most successful and ought to be continued and which should be phased
down or discontinued.



Annex- 9
Page 9
Deputy State Secretary, Ministry of Culture and Education
Minister of Finance (or designee)
President, Conference of Rectors
President, Conference of Directors
Two representatives from other international training organizations, viz.,
Higher Education Support Program of the Open Society Institute
IMC (International Management Center)
Three HEI representatives (one from a university; one from a college; one
from private HEI sector)
Representative from private industry with experience in corporate training
23.   Project management unit. Overall responsibility for implementation of the management
training program rests with the PMU director on advice from the Advisory Board. The PMU
should let contracts for development of priority training programs and of continuing education
modules as soon as technical assistance funds are available (January 1998). During this same
period, requests should be issued for proposals on fellowships and study tours as one package and
for twinning either with them or separately. Details on the terms of these RFPs are contained in
terms of reference in the Project Implementation Plan.
24.   The Minister of Education should appoint members of the Advisory Board by October
1997 in order for them to become familiar with the program as outlined, offer advice for its
modification and refinement, advise on priorities and review RFPs.
25.   Cost estimates for management training subcomponents are contained in cost tables of thle
project.
Staffing
26.   Requirements for staffing management training will vary depending on the type of
training. Training for specific Bank project related products should be designed and guided by a
combination of international experts and Hungarians, often in a team teaching mode. As the
curriculum is refined and as the level of Hungarian experience with these products increases, in-
country expertise should become predominant, thereby reducing costs and creating the basis of an
on-going, stable program. Teaching staff should be selected on the basis of their knowledge of
the specific policy or product to be developed, their ability to work interactively and flexibly with
working groups environments, and their capacity to assist in the production of the product
desired.



Annex 9
Page 10
Evaluation
27.   Three types of assessment of the management training component will occur: (a)
participant evaluation of each course module for the purposes of instructor performance and
structure and value of the module; (b) formative evaluations of the whole range of program
components in 1999 as a part of the general evaluation of the project at Phase II to assist in any
reshaping of program components; and (c) a combined formative and summative evaluation will
occur' in 2001 just prior the project's general evaluation before Phase III to determine which
components have been most successful and ought to be continued and which should be phased
down or discontinued.



Annex-10
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
STUDENT LOAN SCHEME
1.    During appraisal it was determined that a task force of high level representatives
of the groups affected by the loan program should be formed to guide the design and
implementation of the student loan program. Detailed terms of reference were submitted
to the Government for acceptance as a condition of effectiveness.
2.    Background. The Hungarian Higher Education Reform Project will finance the
development of a national student loan guarantee program. A guarantee program is
needed in order to enable households to finance some of the cost of higher education
through borrowing from commercial banks
3.    Increasing the share of costs recovered from beneficiaries is a high priority for
three reasons. First the cost of public funds is very high. The Hungarian tax system is
highly inefficient in generating revenues. Tax compliance is poor and a large part of the
economy escapes taxation. The burden of taxation falls primarily on foreign enterprises,
and formal sector workers; small businesses and employees of small firms escape a large
fraction of their tax liability. Estimates of the dead weight loss due to taxation are as high
as 70 percent of tax receipts. Therefore reducing the burden on the state budget of higher
education finance by recovering costs directly from beneficiaries is a high priority.
4.    Second, higher education institutions need to diversify their sources of funding in
order to achieve greater autonomy. At the present time higher education institutions
obtain about 85 percent of their revenues from either the ministry of education or other
tax-finance institutions. (The remaining 15 percent is obtained from the sale of goods
and services, and from the rental of real estate.)
5.    Third, financing higher education (which is largely a private good) entirely from
public funds is highly inequitable. Students in colleges and universities come from
households that are much wealthier than the average Hungarian family. A background
study prepared as part of project preparation revealed that the asset holdings of the
families of college and university students are more than three times those of the average
Hungarian family. Therefore public financing of higher education redistributes income
and wealth from the poor to the rich. Under central planning, workers were rarely paid
for having greater skills or higher productivity. However, the emergence of competitive
markets for skills has allowed larger wage differentials to appear in recent years. The
value to the individual of a higher education is certain to increase as the market for skills
spreads and deepens. Moreover, many of these households would be able to contribute
significantly to the cost of higher education without undue hardship.
6.    Design Criteria for a Student Loan Program. During preparation of this project
several tasks have been carried out in order to inform the design of a student loan



AnnexI1
Page 2
guarantee program. First, the commercial banks have been presented with the suggestion
that they originate and service education loans. Two of the largest commercial banks
have expressed an interest in doing so. However, they recognize the need to secure these
loans. A direct guarantee by government has been rejected by both the banking industry
and the Ministry of Finance. The banking industry prefers instead to have a legally
autonomous, semi-private agency provide a guarantee of repayment. The banks believe
that such an institution would provide the most credible assurance of the ultimate
recovery of such loans. The Ministry of Finance has also rejected the suggestion that the
government establish a lending institution for student loans on the ground that
government is poorly positioned to manage the allocation of consumer credit or to pursue
the routine recovery of loans.
7.    A second study has investigated the financial feasibility of student loans. This
study has focused primarily on a proposal put forth by the Hungarian federation of
Student Unions that would allow parents to save toward the cost of higher education
through special savings accounts. This proposal includes a suggestion that the earnings
on such savings should be granted preferential treatment under the personal income tax.
Thie Student Unions have also lobbied for the subsidization of the interest paid on
education savings accounts. An analysis of the savings capacity of the average household
has revealed that such a "pre-savings" plan would typically finance no more than 130
percent of the cost (including subsistence) of one year of higher education. The Ministry
of Culture and Education has proposed a pre-savings plan for implementation in 1997,
although the Ministry of Finance has opposed the feature of the proposal that makes it
attractive to families: contribution to the accounts of a state subsidy on interest. A small
student loan program has also been proposed in this study, but the requirements for its
im]plementation have not yet been worked out.
8.    A third study has examined the likely capacity of graduates to repay the loans.
Except in the cases of rapidly expanding fields -- such as translation services, accounting
and business management -- the salaries currently being offered to new graduates would
not allow them to repay a conventional, level payment loan. The inability to repay an
education loan is due primarily to the very high inflation premiums imbedded in nominal
interest rates. (The rate of inflation in recent years has exceeded 20 percent a year,
leading to nominal interest rates of more than 30 percent.) Long-term, fixed-interest rate
loans would also present enormous financial risks to students during a period of rapid
economic change and unpredictable inflation. These findings suggest the need for
innovative financial products that allow frequent adjustments in payments to reflect
actual inflation rates and to permit either graduated or income-contingent payment on the
loan. These financial products are not familiar to much of the commercial banking
systeem and therefore must be carefully marketed. The use of an income contingent
repayment scheme administered under the social insurance program or income tax is also
under discussion.
9.    Remaining Issues. Further work is needed in several areas before a student loan
scheme can be launched. First, the guarantee mechanism must be specified and a legal



Annex 10
Page 3
entity identified or established to administer it. The most appealing option is to create or
identify an existing independent agency with well defined authority to collect bad debts.
The guarantee agency would accept responsibility for collection only after the originating
bank had exercised due diligence in seeking payment. The loan guarantee might not
cover the entire outstanding balance - perhaps only 90 percent - in order provide
incentives to the commercial bank to exercise due diligence in originating loans and to
work aggressively to recover the loan. A secondary guarantee might be provided by the
government to ensure that the guarantee agency is able to meet its obligations. This
facility might assume responsibility for collection of defaulting loans after the guarantee
agency has pursued extensive remedies. The loss to the guarantee agency might be set at
a fraction of the outstanding debt, as well, in order provide it with incentives to pursue
collections aggressively. The primary guarantee might be financed from a fee imposed
on the borrower at the time a loan is originated.
10.   Second, agreements need to be reached on who should have access to guaranteed
student loans. Data from other countries with student loan programs suggests that
default rates tend to be much larger for vocational training courses and non degree study
programs. The targeting of assistance and the likelihood of repayment could be increased
by limiting access to students of colleges and universities. Limiting access would also
help to ensure that funds are distributed to those whose financial requirements are
greatest. In addition, the program might restrict access to students who have successfully
completed a year of study or who have maintained marks above a specified minimum,
since successful completion of the educational program is a positive factor in the
likelihood of repayment of the loan.
11.   Third, responsibility for screening students for eligibility and capacity to repay
needs to be assigned. Most student loan guarantee programs rely on the educational
institution to certify the student's eligibility based on standard needs assessment criteria.
The certification then provides the lender with the assurance that it has access to the
guarantee. The lender assesses capacity to repay the loan. The use of income tax returns
or parental statements of income and wealth does not appear in Hungary to be a reliable
means of establishing the family's ability to meet the cost of higher education from its
own resources. Therefore the risks that are being shouldered by lenders are greater than
in most student loan schemes.
12.   Fourth, the borrower's obligation to repay the loan needs to be developed as fully
as possible. These loans are not secured by a pledge of property but rather are character
loans. Therefore student loan programs typically rely on an elaborate application process
to identify persons who might be contacted in order to trace a borrower who has
absconded. In addition, the approval of the loan is often accompanied by a required
training in the responsible use of consumer credit and the legal measures that lenders may
employ to secure payment. Educational institutions also provide students with
information on the cost of providing the education, the subsidies that are being given, the
sources of these subsidies and the economic value of the education in order to heighten
the borrower's sense of moral obligation to repay. Some student loan programs also



Annex10
Page 4
operate courses for graduating borrowers in order to emphasize to borrowers their
obligations and to remind them of the sanctions that may be applied in the event of
default. These efforts are likely to be especially important in the Hungarian setting in
which many families have very little experience in using credit.
1]3.   Fifth, the access of the lender and the guarantor to enforcement instruments needs
to be agreed. These instruments include the authority to seize personal and real property,
attach wages and salaries, claim social insurance benefits at the source, or affect
adversely access to other forms of credit or to professional licenses. The possibility of
using either the tax withholding or social insurance contributions systems to effect
payment should also be considered.
14.   Sixth, the allowable uses of the funds and the mechanism(s) for disbursing the
loan need to be defined. Most disbursements from the loan may be made directly to the
educational institution, for example. The allowance for living expenses may be disbursed
vweekly or monthly to limit the possibility of misuse of the proceeds. The range of
allowable expenditures needs to be chosen. The proceeds of many loan programs can
only be used to pay direct educational expenses; others may be used to pay for living
expenses or to purchase assets needed to attend school or pursue a course of study. Some
programs allow students to use the proceeds of the loan to purchase a vehicle or furniture.
The acceptable uses of funds and the amounts that can be spent under each category also
need to be agreed.
Cost and Benefits of a Student Loan Guarantee
1:5.   Rough estimates of the costs and benefits of a student loan program have been
prepared. In 1996 the cost of producing a year of higher education ranged from US$5000
tc, US$9100. Tuition charges, when fully implemented, are expected to recover about a
third of these costs, or between US$1650 and US$3050 a year. Student living expenses
in 1996 at university dormitory and canteen were approximately 180,000 HUF
(US$ 1250) a year. Therefore, the total cost to a student would then have been between
US$2900 and US$4400 a year. These costs represented between 1.0 and 1.5 times the
average income of a working class family.
16.   If a working class family were to save 10 percent of its pretax income for the eight
years prior to enrollment of a child in university and these savings paid interest at the
rate of 8 percent a year, then the student would matriculate with reserves of 575,000
HUF (US$4050) -- enough to meet expenses for about one year. Savings accumulated
during four years of study (including interest earned) would add 245,000 HUF
(US$1700) to the fund. In order to meet the remaining costs of higher education, the
student would need to earn or borrow a total of about 900,000 HUF (US$6250) over an
average of four years. Therefore, if he or she does not earn any of the funds required to
meet the costs of being a student, a total debt (including accrued interest) of
approximately US$8390 would emerge at the end of four years. This debt, if repaid over
a [l 5 year period at 10 percent interest, would require an annual repayment of about



AnnexI1
Page 5
160,000 HUF (US$1120) a year. In recent years a graduate from a higher education
institution might expect to earn a salary of between 700,000 and 800,000 HUF (about
US$4400-5000) a year immediately following graduation, rising to about 1,200,000 HUF
(US$7500) by mid career. Under the assumptions used in this scenario, financing a
higher education with a student loan would have been an attractive financial proposition,
leading to a net increase in income of less than 50,000 HUF a year initially and rising to a
gain of about 500,000 HUF a year by mid career. (All of these calculations are in real
terms and reflect the structure of relative wages that prevailed between 1990 and 1995;
technological advances, economic liberalization and globalization of markets are
expected to increase the differences between incomes of secondary schools leavers and
graduates of higher education institutions in the future).
17.   Demands on the Guarantee Fund. If one assumes that a third of students enrolled
in higher education were to finance half of the private cost of attendance with a
guaranteed student loan, then about US$90 million would be required each year in loans.
If the default rate were similar to that observed in very well run programs elsewhere (IO
to 15 percent) and the average loss on a bad loan were 40 percent of the original amount
of the loan, then the annual loss would be 4 to 6 percent of the initial amount or roughly
US$3.5-5.0 million a year after the system becomes fully mature. This amount should
be offset against the reduction in public expenditures on higher education that a student
loan program would make possible. Recovery of a third of the cost of higher education
would have reduced public expenditures by about $128 million in 1996. In as much as
the cost of mobilizing public funds is estimated to produce a dead weight loss of about 70
percent of revenues, this saving is worth more than US$227 million in private
consumption. Therefore the net economic gain from the introduction of a student loan
program would be in excess of US$220 million a year. In addition, a well designed
student loan program would ensure that a significant fraction of the burden of higher
education finance would fall on beneficiaries rather than the general taxpayer. This
would result in far greater fairness in the distribution of costs and benefits.
18.   Specifically, a high level task force representing the participants in the program
(Ministry of Culture and Education, Ministry of Finance, students, lenders, higher
education institutions and a guarantor) will be formed to pursue consensus on the various
complex issues outstanding. The progress of the Task Force will be reviewed closely by
the Program Manager. Staffing will be provided by Hungarian experts on student
finance, supplemented by technical assistance from international experts. The goal is that
within 12 months of the first meeting of the Task Force the overall design of the program
and its implementation will be completed.






HUNGARY                                                                Annex 11
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
_ _ _  _ _   _ __Quantity by Year
___________                   Unit        1         2         3        4        5        6      Total   Estimated
o Development and Implementation                                       _     _Budget
]lloctionState- I Funded Enrollment Places
International Consultants                 _                  p-month         9         9                                            18        331
National Consultants       __       _                        p-month        24        24       18                                   66        307
Nomative Funding                               _____            _      _     _
Intemational Consultants                                     p-month         2         2        2                    _6                       112
Tultion Policy   I
International Consultants                                    p-montr-h                          6                  -                 6         115
National Consultants                                         p-month                  12                                            12         58
Targeting Student Support
International Consultants                                    p-month         6         6    =                      _                12        220
National Consultants                                         p-month         9         9                                            18          83
rivate Higher Education
International Consultants                                    p-month         2         2        2         _        _                 6         112
National Consultants                                         p-month         6         6        6         _                         1 8         84
ntemational Advisory Panel                                                        =__
International Consultants                                    p-month         4         4        4         4        4       4        24        1130
National Consultants                                         p-month         2         2        2         2        2       2         9          44
Subtotal                    64         64      52         8        6        6      195        2594
nstitutional Development
(Hungarian Accreditation Committee)
Intemational Consultants      _                                p-year        2         2                                             4        454
National Consultants                                           p-year        2         2                                             4         165
alional Credit Office
International Consulants                                                    I r_ _   p-month  11  9            _                    20        367
National Consultants                                           p10                    1                      ____                   20        853
TT(Higher Education & Science Council)
International Consultants                                    p-month         2                                                       8         27
National Consultants                                           p-year        2         3        3         3        3       3        28        731
Subtotal                     28         26        3        3,       3        3       66        2596
anagement Information Systems
trategyRequirement Analysis                                     sum                             *                                            1080
oftware Modules for HEIs                                        sum                                                                          4940
|  |           i               [Subtotal                                                                                       6021
anagement Development        I
DeYlopment/Delivery of 2-3 day seminars                         sum          *                                                               1290
winning Programs                                                 sum                                               *                         4623,
Subtotal   ______=___                                                                          5913
tudent Loan Program
einfition of LegaVOperational Framework       __    |_          sum          -                  -                                            1443
Project Management
|roject Managem p-years       I                                p-year         6         6        6         6       6        6       36        1883
El Federation Offices                                          p-year         2         4        61        8       a        a       36        1576.
Subtotal                       8        10       18        14      14       28       72        34591
El Archiectural Densigns &Super                                    -                                                                        13387
Total      35412
Note The PMU would conduct lending and oversee delivery of technical assistance in all areas except architectural designs w  which is to be don a directly by HEls.
Terms of referenc for TA in these areas are part of the Project Implmentation Plan.






Annex 12
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION: FUNCTIONS AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    The Ministry of Culture and Education (MOE) would be responsible for directly
implementing all project components and for ensuring the achievement of Project
Development Objectives. The Project Director would be the Deputy State Secretary for
Higher Education. To facilitate overall Project management and monitoring, a Project
Management Unit (PMU) would be established directly linked to the Office of the
Deputy State Secretary for Higher Education (see Chart I attached). The Deputy State
Secretary would officially delegate authority for Project management to the PMU
Manager and the staff of the PMU.
A. Project Management Unit (PMU)
2.    A PMU would be established and would be maintained during the six-year Project
implementation period. The PMU would be headed by a Project Manager, and staffed
with about six persons overseeing the development and implementation of policy
reforms, and of investment components. The Project Manager would be directly
accountable and report to the Deputy State Secretary. The PMU staff would work closely
with the relevant MOE departments and HEIs involved in project implementation. The
PMU's responsibilities would focus mainly on: (i) overall coordination of Project
implementation among entities within and outside the MOE, and monitoring achievement
of development objectives and physical and financial Project targets; (ii) monitoring of
policy and institutional development aspects, and tendering and supervising all technical
assistance under the Project; (iii) overseeing the IDP development process and
implementation and CIP development process; (iv) oversight and supervision of the MIS
and management development components of the Project; and (v) liaison with the World
Bank.
3.    The specific responsibilities of the PMU under each of the above areas would be:
(i) Coordination and Monitoring of Project Development and Implementation
Targets
(a) report regularly to the Deputy State Secretary on the physical and financial
progress of the project, and propose the resolution of pending issues;
(b) prepare quarterly project progress reports, highlighting issues and
recommendations for action, and reporting on actions taken; submit progress
reports to the Bank, no later than three weeks after the end of each quarter;



Annex 12
Page 2
(c) act as clearinghouse for all project issues requiring attention of top
management of the relevant ministries, intermediary organizations, and the Bank;
maintain ordered project files;
(d) maintain updated project implementation schedules (project management
software), preventing slippages and delays in achievement of targets;
(e) maintain a PMU operating budget, including local travel to ensure a close
working relationship with HEIs;
(f) conduct an initial project launch workshop with all project beneficiaries and
interest groups, and periodically keep such groups informed through reporting or
seminars; and
(g) manage, administer, and supervise the preparation activities envisaged under
the PPF loan advance, in particular, technical assistance and the tendering for the
competition for architectural designs for selected CIPs.
(ii) Oversight and Monitoring of Policy Reforms and Institutional Development
(a) oversee and monitor the implementation of the agreed policy and institutional
reforms as stated in the policy matrix, as well as achievement of the project's
development objectives according to agreed key performance indicators;
(b) oversee technical assistance to support the development of sector policy
reforms and their implementation by HEIs and the MOE;
(c) tender, lead evaluation of bids/offers, and supervise all technical assistance
contractors envisaged under the project, ensuring that all "deliverables" are
completed in a qualitative and timely fashion; and
(d) prepare reports for the scheduled assessments of Phase I (September 1999) and
Phase II (September 2001) of the Project, according to agreed targets and
milestones to be achieved respectively for each phase.
(iii) Oversight of IDP and CIP Development and Implementation
(a) in close cooperation with the MOE, draft the standard Letter of Invitation
(LOI) and terms of reference for the competition for final architectural designs;
organize the evaluation of proposals and contract avvard [note: the designs for the
first three CIPs is expected to be financed in part through the PPF advance from
the Loan]



Annex 12
Page 3
(b) actively participate in assisting HEIs in the preparation of IDPs/CIPs, and
providing and/or contracting the needed expertise to assist HEIs develop
institutional, systems, and business plans;
(c) ensure completeness and quality of the IDPs/CIPs, in accordance with agreed
criteria for content and format during the proposal preparation process; and
(d) review IDPs/CIPs for content and quality before submission by HEIs to the
FTT and FEFA Board for their approval, and oversee their timely implementation
(iv) Supervision of MIS and Management Development Components
(a) oversee the implementation of the MIS component of the Project, including
the tendering for all software-hardware and technical assistance for the specific
activities identified under this component; coordinate with FEFA the review and
approval of MIS modules for funding with Loan resources; and
(b) tender and oversee all training, fellowships, and study tour activities for the
management training component.
(v) Liaison with World Bank
(a) coordinate the inputs of entities involved in implementation of project
activities, and liaise with the World Bank; and
(b) ensure that World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants are followed,
and obtain clearances for all tenders, evaluation reports, and contract awards
according to Loan Agreement requirements;
(c) ensure that an annual audit of project expenditures is completed, and that the
National Bank of Hungary submits to the Bank the audit report no less thani six
months after the completion of each fiscal year.
4.    The PMU would be staffed with the following individual consultants: Project
Manager; Deputy Manager and higher education policy specialist; technical assistance
and management training specialist; management information systems specialist; and two
or three junior analysts. The proposed project Loan would finance the contracting of
such consultants as well as the operating costs of the PMU.
5.    Critical and essential to the success of project implementation would be a close
working relationship between the PMU and FEFA. The MOE would ensure good
cooperation among the PMU and FEFA, as well as with other departments of MOE, the
FTT, and the HEIs. To promote communications and the sharing of knowledge, the
MOE would regularly host presentations to report to stakeholders on the progress
achieved in project implementation, and would address any current issues that would



Annex 12
Page 4
benefit from participant input. The PMU Manager and FEFA Secretariat Director would
be responsible for requesting prompt resolution of any issues from the Office of the
Deputy State Secretary.
B. Higher Education and Science Council (FTT)
6.    The FTT is an advisory body that provides policy guidance and advises on
strategic decisions and sector priorities for the MOE. Under the Project, the FTT would
be responsible for reviewing IDPs submitted by the HEIs which have complied with the
legal requirements for "Integration", and would recommend their approval to the Ministry
of Education. The FTT, through its Secretariat, would assess compliance of IDP
proposals with agreed criteria on content and format of IDPs. [The FTT approval of
IDPs for HEIs is a requirement before consideration by the FEFA Board of the
corresponding CIP grant.] To facilitate the work of the FTT and develop its professional
capacity, the Project would finance staff training and short-term experts, as well as
incremental staff to be provided under the Ministry's budget.
7.    The main Project responsibilities of the FTT under the proposed project would be
to:
(a) advise on specific elements of the reform of higher education, such as
introduction of the credit system, new enrollment allocation models, normative
financing, accreditation of new programs, diversification of funding, student loan
financing, and the development of private higher education
(b) conduct analyses and studies to support its advice on reforms
(c) provide comments and suggestions for the "integration" plans of HEIs
(d) review and recommend approval of IDPs in terms of consistency with overall
strategic directions and medium term development criteria.
C. Higher Education Development Programs (FEFA)
8.    FEFA is an intermediary organization established under the first World Bank-
firnanced project in human resources development to allocate funds for equipment to HEIs
on a competitive basis. Under the proposed project FEFA would recommend grants for
inviestments for specific capital investment plans (CIPs) supporting "integrating" HEIs.
The Board of FEFA consists of 15 persons, and is chaired by the Deputy State Secretary
for Higher Education. To facilitate the work of the FEFA Board to review and approve
CIPs, the Board would appoint a Technical Subcommittee which would include civil
works experts to evaluate the CIPs according to agreed criteria, and make
recommendations on award of grants for civil works investments. The Subcommittee
would submit its recommendations to the FEFA Board for endorsement of the specific
HEI grants. Members of the Subcommittee would include representation from the



Annex 12
Page 5
Association of Hungarian Architects and from the Investment Department of the MOE,
and other expertise as needed. FEFA would recommend CIPs for approval by the
Minister of Education. Once the grant is approved by the Minister, FEFA would enter
into grant agreements with beneficiary HEIs.
9.    The main Project responsibilities of the FEFA Board would be to:
(a) appoint and supervise a technical Subcommittee to evaluate CIPs according to
agreed criteria for content and detail, and recommend specific CIP grants for
award to HEIs
(b) publicize the criteria and requirements for the CIP proposals and grants
(c) announce the requests for proposals for CIPs
(d) finalize the criteria for evaluation of CIPs, with Bank approval
(e) propose the award of grants to HEIs, for the Minister's approval, and arrange for
the publication of results
(f) finalize the general conditions of contracts between FEFA and HEI for
implementation of CIPs and use of grants
D. FEFA Secretariat
10.   The FEFA Board is supported by a Secretariat responsible mainly for technical
support and financial management. The FEFA Secretariat would be responsible under
the Project mainly for: (a) supervising the administration of contracts for goods, works.
and services related to civil works, and for making payments against these contracts
financed under the Project as approved by the MOE; (b) establishing separate project
accounts and administering Loan disbursements, and national budgetary allocations for
the Higher Education Institutions Investment Program component of the Project; and (c)
maintaining project accounts according to international accounting standards.
11.   The FEFA office would collaborate with the Treasury and the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH) in processing disbursements and keeping track of project expenditures,
funds, costs, and would provide monthly reports of project expenditures to the PMU. The
PMU would work closely with the staff of the Secretariat to facilitate project financial
monitoring. The FEFA Office would continue to finance its traditional activities i.e.
equipment for HEIs through competitive tenders. To facilitate the additional work
generated by the proposed Project, the FEFA Secretariat would fill its current job
openings with staff qualified to oversee the complex and large construction contracts.



Annex 12
Page 6
12.   The main Project responsibilities of the FEFA Secretariat would be:
(a) provide logistical support to the FEFA Board, as needed, in the process of review
and approval of CIPS
(b) advise potential beneficiary HEIs about the availability and conditions/criteria for
allocation of funds according to agreed CIP criteria
(c) develop standard bidding documents to be used by participating HEIs for ICB and
NCB for procurement of works financed under the Project; provide guidance in
the use of Bank-approved documents and oversee HEI compliance in the
procurement process
(d) prepare agreements between the HEIs and FEFA for CIP grants
(e) oversee the implementation of the CIP investment programs
(f) monitor contract expenditures and process payments against contracts for goods,
works, or services financed under the Project; prepare progress report and submit
to the PMU, on physical and financial progress on the procurement of goods and
works.
(g) prepare financial progress reports on total project expenditures financed by
both the Loan and National Budget
(h) maintain separate project accounts according to international accounting
standards, and make records readily available to MOE inspectors, national
auditors, and Bank reviews.
E. Higher Education Institutions (HEIs)
13   Integrating HEIs would be the primary beneficiaries of the Project. The
participating institutions would prepare the IDPs and CIPs on the basis of guidelines
issued by the FTT and FEFA Board, respectively. Interested HEIs may receive assistance
through the PMU for preparation of these various plans. Consequent to the award of
funds, HEIs would be committed to the implementation of the IDPs and CIPs. HEIs
would also be responsible for their direct tendering of final designs and civil works, in
coordination with the PMU and FEFA, in accordance with agreed bidding procedures.
HEiIs would also be responsible for supervising directly and through subcontractors the
construction phase. HEIs would be obliged to monitor their own implementation plans
an(d prepare regular progress reports on policy and institutional integration matters for the
PMU and on civil works implementation for the FEFA Office.



Annex 12
Page 7
14.   HEIs would be responsible for the following actions:         t
(a) establishment and staffing of a "Federation Office" to coordinate and oversee the
development and implementation of "integration" plans and of IDP/CIP
proposals.
(b) preparation of IDPs/CIPs proposals; complete the IDP/CIP proposal review
process together with the PMU to ensure content and quality requirements before
official submission of proposals; submission of IDPs/CIPs to the FTT and FEFA
Boards, respectively
(c) obtain all required approvals for integration proposals from the institutional
councils (senates)
(d) assume full responsibility for on site implementation of IDPs, and for monitoring
and reporting of implementation of policy reforms and institutional changes
according to IDP commitments
(e) enter into contracts with FEFA for the implementation of CIP grants; conduct
tendering according to World Bank Guidelines for construction, and enter into
contracts with architectural firms and construction contractors; supervise
construction and commissioning of buildings, equipment, and furnishings;
process all contract payments through FEFA according to agreed procedures.
(f) report to FEFA implementation of civil works and to the PMU on all aspects of
project implementation.
n:\hungary\highed\anx 1 O-rv.doc






ANNEX 13
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
PROCEDURES AND CRITERIA FOR INVESTMENT SELECTION
Priorities. The proposed project would finance mainly the implementation of
integrated institution development plans, particularly capital works, at participating HEIs.
The purpose of the investment funds is to support the objectives of the project,
specifically efficiencies through administrative and/or academic rationalization of HEIs,
greater relevance of program design and greater non-public resource mobilization.
Specific investments that can be demonstrated to support those objectives would be
eligible for financing. Consequently the following areas would be accorded high priority
in evaluation of proposals:
(a) Consolidation of administration and support services
(b) Consolidation of faculties, and grouping of departments into larger units
(c) Rationalization of teaching programs, including design of broader (i.e. less
specialized) degree and certificate programs consolidation of core courses
across departments and faculties; introduction of elective subjects; reductions
in weekly class contact hours for students; increases in average class sizes;
(d) Continuing education, retraining, up-dating
(e) Use of distance teaching
(f) Expansion at non-degree level
(g) Program diversification for market economy
(h) New allocation mechanisms for reallocating norms-based budgets to priorities
within HEIs.
1.    The physical investments needed to implement the above, would include:
(a) Development of information technology systems and capacities
(b) Development of consolidated administrative facilities
(c) Development of library facilities
(d) Development of networking capability
(e) Development of student dormitory spaces
(f) Renovation or construction of larger teaching spaces
Procedures
2.    Proposals for funding would have to pass several stages of review before final
award of funds, namely:



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(a) Preparation of institution development plans (IDPs) by interested, institutions;
if they need assistance in this process they could apply to the PMU for
technical assistance;
(b) Internal evaluation by the institutional councils at the applying institution; The
senate of the HEI would review and approve the overall IDP;
(c) Review by the PMU and approval by the World Bank;
(d) Evaluation of overall institutional development plans by the FTT;
(e) Approval by the Minister of Education of the IDP;
(f) Preparation of capital investment plans (CIPs) by the HEI;
(g) Approval of CIPs by the institutional council;
(h) Review by the PMU and approval by the World Bank;
(i) Evaluation of CIPs and preliminary designs and costing by the Technical
Subcommittee of FEFA and then by the FEFA Board;
(j) Approval by the Ministry of Education based on FEFA's recommendation;
(k) Selection of design firn for civil works through normal competition, as
administered by the HEI;
(1) Submission by the HEI of final designs to FEFA for financing;
(m)Evaluation of final designs by the FEFA Technical Subcommittee and then by
the FEFA Board;
(n) Prior approval by the Bank of the proposed award and draft contract;
(o) Approval of FEFA's recommended awards by the Minister of Education;
(p) FEFA enters into an investment contract with the agreeing to finance the
capital projects and specifying the objectives, tasks, end results, financing and
conditions, including implementation of specific reforms;
(q) MOE enters into an investment contract for civil works according to agreed
procedures; and
(r) The specific steps in the process are shown in the flow chart on page 5 of this
Annex.
The specific steps in the process are shown in the attached flow chart and in the Project
Implementation Plan.
Criteria
3.    Guidelines and criteria have been established to promote the achievement of
project goals. Three sets of criteria would be followed, viz. (a) criteria by which
institutions would be eligible to apply for project funds; (b) evaluation criteria for project
selection and (c) criteria for project approval. These criteria serve to ensure that loan and
preject funds would be directed towards the achievement of program objectives.
4.    Eligibility Criteria. Basic conditions for application for project investment funds
would be the following:



ANNEX 13
Page 3
*  In support of the Government's policy of integration of fragmented
institutions, the basic condition for access would be a decision by Parliament
to recognize the institution as an association under Section 12/A of the Higher
Education Law of 1996 as an interim step towards becoming a multi-faculty
institution. However, in recognition of the efficiency gains to be realized in
institutions that do not integrate, a HEI could be eligible for financial
assistance on the basis of a specific plan for internal integration, i.e. academic
rationalization. Such assistance would be awarded during the second and third
phases of the project on a competitive basis, would have to demonstrate
efficiency gains at least equal to those of integrating institutions and would
have to meet the same other eligibility criteria stipulated below. These
amounts would be limited to a cumulative total of $30 million and $10 million
for any one HEI.
*  The HEI must present an overall IDP showing a self-assessment of strengths
and weaknesses, long term objectives, and mid-term targets, plans for
academic rationalization, specific efficiency gains to be realized and detailed
plan for administrative and/or academic integration.
-  The HEI must present a capital investment plan (CIP) based on a least cost
approach and demonstrating a reasonable cost/benefit analysis by comparing
costs of investments to planned efficiency gains.
- The IDP and the CIP must be approved by the institutional council(s) of the
HEI(s).
5.    Content of Applications. The specific content of an IDP and a CIP are shown in
the Project Implementation Plan.
6.    Evaluation Criteria. Both IDPs and Capital Investment Plans would be evaluated
in terms of four criteria. These are spelled out in detail in the PIP and summarized below:
(a) Relevance or Significance: i.e. the extent to which the plans and investment
proposals address the priority issues and support the priority actions
established in the Government's Letter of Development Policy for the Higher
Education Sector and the Policy Matrix.
(b) Effectiveness: i.e., the extent to which the proposal is well designed to
achieve its objectives. Means and actions to achieve each goal should have
been clearly specified, and all the necessary inputs should have been identified
and provided. The application should include specifically (i) a clear strategy
for achieving efficiency gains, (ii) an effective strategy for academic
restructuring, (iii) a workable internal budgetary reallocation mechanism, and
(iv) a reasonable strategy for increasing non-state revenues.



ANNEX 13
Page 4
(c) Feasibility: i.e. the extent to which the proposals could be implemented as
planned. This must include assurances that (i) a strong level of commitment
and support exists on the part of the HEI, (ii) the planned inputs would be
available as and when required; (iii) the necessary organizational units would
be in place and properly staffed to carry out the work; (iv) sources have been
identified and confirmed for counterpart financial contributions; (v) increases
in recurrent costs produced by the IDP and CIP would be within the capacity
of the HEI to manage; and (vi) the key risks to successful implementation
have been identified and strategies adopted to minimize them.
(d) Efficiency: i.e. the extent to which the proposal investment could be
implemented at reasonable cost. This means that (i) the norms and standards
are within acceptable levels; (ii) using standard accepted methodologies of
calculation, a least-cost approach has been followed, or cost/benefit analysis
has been done which shows that the projected quantitative benefits of the
project far outweigh the costs; and (iii) sufficient counterpart financing has
been arranged to reduce public costs.
7.    Approval Criteria. There are no pre-set quotas for distribution of funds by HEI, or
by type of expenditure. This is because the quality of proposals cannot be known in
advance. The proposed sector reform program covers all areas of higher education.
However, to ensure that funds are concentrated to make an impact, but that a few large
institutions do not garner the lion's share of the project resources, a floor has been placed
on assistance for each integrating HEI of $5 million, and an upper limit has been placed
on access to investment funds. No integrating HEI may claim more than $30 million of
the funds for equipment and civil works. (This excludes funds for systems development
and management development.) No single HEI may receive more than $10 million for
internal academic consolidation out of a total of $30 million reserved for this purpose in
phases 2 and 3.



PROCEDURES FOR SELECTION OF INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS
Annex 14
Preparation of institution    *                                                                 1
development plans (IDPs)
~ Institutional councils
review and
v      t                     approve
A                  ~~~~~~~~the overall IDP.
apply to the PMU for                                              Screening
technical assistance                                              by the PMU
Review and
approval by
v                                                                              the World Bank
PMU                                                           Evaluation of
overall institutional
A(00, development plans
A                                                            by the FTT    _
pproval of the IDP              b
apply to the PMU for                      by the
technical assistance               Ministry of Education
v~
Preparation of
capital investment                   Approval of the
plans (CiPs)                _       CIPs by the
by the HEI                u        institutional         Screening by the PMU
council
Review by
the World Bank
Evaluation of CiPs   &
Approval by the Ministry        Evaluation of CIPs         and preliminary designs
of Education based on    4-         by the         4         and costing by the
FEFA's recommendation             FEFA Board               Technical Subcommittee
of FEFA
Selection of design firm             Submission by the
for civil works through             HEI of final designs          Evaluation of final
normal competition, as             to FEFA for financing            designs by the
administered by the HEI                                             FEFA Technical
Subcommittee
Evaluation by the
FEFA Board
FEFA enters into an            Approval of FEFAs                     World Bank
investment contract               recommended            4            review of FEFA
with HEI                     awards by the                     awardidraft contract
Minister of Education






Annex 15
Page I
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJEC T
Summary of Implementation Schedule
1995          1919                          1998           1999           2000 _         2001
1D   Task Name                                               Duratlon   2|03                         2034    01 02                                                 10  j -ot 102 a3     iQ 1    oi3104
1   HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT. HUNGARY                              Id
2    COMPONE i.rl Policy andnormative rramework                 750d                                           I   Feb 20 98
3       White paper and Pollcy Statement on Higher              250d                         _          May 16 97
Education
Setting up and work ol Task Force                   1                         9      Feb 14 97
S            Draft documents review by World Bank                80d                                Mar 28 0?
6            Documents finalized                                   Od                                 Apr 20 97
7            Policy document reviewed and accepted by the        20d                                  May is 97
Government_
a        Decrees on higher education Issued (modifIcatlons       96d                                 Mar15 97
of the law)
9Hungarian Accreditation Committee (published)       Od                        *  Nov1 96
10           Higher Education and Science Council (FTT)            Od* a
11           Higher Education Developmenl Fund (FEFA)              Od                                Mar 10 97
12           Integration Oecree Issued                             Od                                Mar S g97
13       Development and adoption of new normnative              26id                                          Nov 1 g97
flnancng plan
14           Pait I (Agreed between MinFin and MinEd.)             Od                       *  Nov 1 96
15           Part II.                                              Od                                          Nov 1 97
16       Students enrollment allocations                         1 54dM
~~ ~Mar 14'91
17           Preparatory stage                                   115d(                           Jan 17 97
18           Discussions with World Bank                          70d                            - Feb 14 '97
s            Policy paper adopled                                  Od |                              Mar 14 97
20       Data collection system developed                        196d                                              Feb 20 98
W~~~ Feb 20'98
21           Technical assistance obtained and working           196d1                                            Feb 20*98
22_             Equipment specificalion. purchase and insllnment   156(|                     -_                     Feb 20       . 9 
I  -  -- __ .... .. .. _ ... ._. __ . . _ _ . ..... ..... _ _,b 20 19



Annex 15
Page 2
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Sumnmary of Implementation Schledule
task Narne                                                        1995     1                                 `1998         1999        j    2000      j    2001
ID   task Name                                              Duration   21 03 04 01 0I2                                033104 Qj 0  oH 2  13IO4Ji L--Q1  4 -:  J92 N9t]92L
23       Curriculum changes                                      271d
'                  Jan 14'98
24           Accepiance by the Accreditation Committee on an     271d                          11111111111
intermittent basis                   _        __s_rs__e
38       Restructuring Intermediary Institutions (FrT, FEFA,     165d           Nov 24 i98
MAD                               ___
39       HEI Flnanclal authority program                         206d                        _        Apr 1597
40           Coopers & Lybrand studies                           120d                           Dec 13 96
41           Agreement between HEIs. MOE and MOF signed            Od                              *  Apr 15 97
42       Student Credit system                                   395d
. Jan 2 '98
43           Law of Higher Education issued                        Od
.                   *  ~~~~~~~Jul 1 *96
44           Credit Working Group functioning                    306d                                           Jan 2 98
45           Framework for the credit system developed            87d                              Mar 3 97
46           Nalional conference on ECTS held                      id
;            | ~~~~Mar 26 -9r
47           Establishment  National Coordination Otfice           Od
* Nov 1 '91
43           Decree defining the system issued                    30d
n Dec 31 sr7
49       Development of private educatlon                         85d                              _     May 30 97
50           Consultants working                                  1Od
|Feb 14 '91
51           Policy paper deseloped and adopled by Ihe            30d
Governmenl                                                                            nMy 30 97
52       Merger of Central Administrative Units                   91d                       V         Mar 10 '97
53           Four new curatona to adjudicate funds created         Od                           Nov 1 '96
54           Funding mechanism reviewed                           76d
Feb 14191
55           MOE adopted dectee merging economic units of FPI      OdM
and FEFA"*  Mar10 97
56       NEI Economic Analysis                                   M22d
Mar 30 '91
Note conditions * bo appraisal  negotiationis                                     Page3               DISK-EC2tfR(Vltf)tJANKU n JN(;ARY\llEOUCAT\WEsll.\A tJX 12MVP
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3DS@C,._R... )l. .)IN\ I-CR\ _iDjC w tt. ..JN  _? _    -._ _,  ._ 



Annex 15
Page 3
IlIGllER EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Implementation Sclhedtule
1995                         1997          1998           1 999          2000           20061
ID   Task Name                     _                                                0__   DuraIon  02 03 04 01 02 03 -Q 10  QJ02 a 1 0  r I I02Th- 4 91   10Qj041U1 19?bi 1 a
57           Wotid Bank consullants' work                        22d                               Mar 30 97
56           Report and recommendations submitted                 Od
N      i.  .
59   COMPONENT 11. Project management and Implementation        660d .                                      Oct 11r97
structure_
60       Project Preparation Team working                         Id  Apr 10 '95!
61       Draft structure developed. ncl governance. functions     Od                               Fb 24 97
and scope of duties (completion)  :_Feb_24____
62       Project management concept reviewed                     10d                                Apr 14 '97
63       Overall preliminary project schedules prepared          10d                                Apr 14 97
64       Overall preliminary budget prepared                      7d            .                 | Apr 11 '97
65       Consultant to prepare details of the projed management  35d                                g  Jun 30 97
structure hired and workng_   __
66       Consultant's recommendations submitted to GOH and        Od                                    Jun 30 '97
We
67       Management and implementation arrangements               Od*Jul14'97
approved by GOH and WB 
68       FEFA Ad Hoc Committee established"                       Od                                 *  Jul14 '97
69       Prolect Coordination Unit                              134d                    :                    Oct 17 '97
70           PCU established by decree of MOE as a separate      10d                                Apr 28 '97
.        ~~entily -- _ _____      _      _______                                               | Apr 2b  9
71           Consultant to manage the PCU on behalf of MOE       20d                               f May 12 97
selected and contract awarded'  _May_12_91
72           Offices allocaled /rented                           39d                                   Ju4 '97
73           Equipment purchased and installed                   40d
- Sa  Sep 30 '97
74           Staf.f hired and trained                            40d                                   [jSp3  9
75           Systems  developed and hinaflzed (by consultant)    79d                                  r-   Oct 17 97
7 6          PC U tully operational                               Od
* Oct 17 '91
77   COMPONENT WI Project financing                             568d
~~~~~~~~~y  Jarn s 98l
Note conditions lor appraisal -negotaltions                                      Page 4             tJtSK@fC21RcbwoF^t i AI)t'ANKUIft)NLiARYQIIf)t IHAI WVAlIt ft AfJtA    t.111f
_  _  _  _   .. .-   ..  _   .  - .   .    -    _ -_ ...   .. ...  .    _  . .  .  ...  .       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~VV 



Annex 15
Page 4
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
SuminarY of lmplei1mentation SchIeduile
I                                   I    ig5 L f9     997               -.---- ----_ 200_j            20
199                00  L      2O 0t
|0   task Name                                              Duration  Q2I3I4Oi    102 0304 QlQ2I :14   I                             j        1 T                  1o4
78       Japanese grant functional                                52w                                         Nov 1 97
79       Project Prepatatlon Facility                            132d                                      Aug 5 97
so           Need defined                                         20d                              Feb28'97
81           Draft budget prepared                                25d                              flmay997
U2           Request le1ter signed by the Minister of Education    Od
i             *  ~~~~May 30 '97
83           PPF: approval process by WB                          10d                                 IJun19'91
84           PPF approval process by MOF and MOE                  20d                                    Jul 22 '97
aS           Special account opened                               40d
_Aug 5 '97
86               Bank selected (National Bank of Hungary)         30d
[Jul 22 '97
87               PCU signatories appointed by MOE                  Od                                      Jul 22 92
a8               Special account opened                            Od
*Jul 22 '97
89               PPF deposit rnade                                 Od                                      Aug 5 '97
90       PCU current account:                                      Od
91           Current account opened                                Od                                      Jul 25 '97
92       World Bank loan                                         568d
~~~~~~~~~~Jan 5 '98
93           Project preparalion and development                 282d                           Dec t 96
94           Pre-appraisal                                        10d
9  Dec 13 '96
95           Project appraisal                                     5d                                  May19 '97
96           Loan negotiations                                     5d                                    Jul2l'97
9 7          . Board presentation                                  Od                                       Sep 1'97
98           Loan Agreement signed                                 OdOct 13'?,
99           Loan effeditve                                        Od*Jan98
_____________________________________________ _  .__________________ -   -   .   -  .   .-   .--   -  -  -  .   -   -  ---   -  ________._.J._. _



Annex 15
Pagc 5
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Implementation Schedule
11996                1        i99          1998            1999          2000           2001
_tD_  Taskl Name       ___         ___    Durallon  02103 |Q4 0U  02 0Q3 IQ4 0fQ4 oi T  1 ( 1 |r-34 li  -L-1D o    02T  3 11122                   |       0 I   I i04
100   COMPONENT IV. Higher educatloslsitutions                 1543d
101      Inslitutions (aFeas) selected                           20d             f Feb 26 6
102     uInstional Development Plans                            282d                             l  Mar 21 97
103          lDP teams appointed                                 40d              EJ Apr 24 '96
104          IDP plans developrment                             270d                               Mar 12'9r
105          IDP Draft Plans subnilied                            10d                              Mar 29 '9
106      Fornal Integration                                    1373d
107          Letter of intent to fomn federation and University    Od                     *  Sep 26 96
18       Itcalktmet                                             433d                                                                     Sep 1 99
109              HEI Federation Formed                             Od
Jan 2 '98
110              Kecskemel University established                 Od*  Sep1 99
111          Szeged                                             522d
TJani 2 '00
112              HEI Federation Formed                            Od                                            Jan 1 '98
113              Szeged University eslablished                    OdJan 2 00
114          Debrecen                                           261d                                                                          Jan 2 99
V      V       ~~~Jul 1'99
115              HEI Federalion lormed                             Od                                                   Jul 1 '98
116              Debrecen Universily eslablished                   Od                                                                  Jul 1 '99
117          Reorganization and integration of common systems   695d
(finance and accounting. pioctiieinent, supporl                                  I           !;                          I Aug 31 99
Note conditions * lot appraisal " negotiatiots                                  Page 7              DISK@EC2l iR@WORlt-i)lANKnlIUNGARY\I lrIJCAI Wlill\FANtIX l2 PAp



Annex 15
Page 6
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Implemcntation Schedule
_     .      1995 1995      1              iggy997         1998           1999            2000            2001
ID   Task Name                                                Duration  02 |Q3 IQ4 011I21031l4Q10 IQ20 I3 I04 a1 Qa 02          104 01 |o
lIs           Reorgani:ation of acadei;n  programs                t304d
119               Credit tiransfer system                           434d                                 =,                   Aug 31 '96
120               Development of new programs                      1304d                                                  continuous effort. recriented towards
~~~~~~ --Snstudent choice, deferring of  -.
121               Revision of curricula                            1304d                                                  specialisalion. introduction of
11 uiuins.ai          r - post-secondary, college and other -     - -_ -
122               Developme; t of distance education.              i304d                                                ,orogram s, using a variety of methods
~..aam~.&.sj~-i,and forms
123           Equipment and facilitles                            1043d
-~Dec 29 '00
124               New equlipment purchased and installed           104w                                           !                Dec 29 95
12S               Additional facilities constructed or renovated   1043d                                    H                                                      Dec 29 00
125   COMPONEWr V. Management training and development              258d
_  __  _                                         :                         _         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mat 26'98
127       Concept of Ihe component developed                          8d                               | Apr 10 97
126       Concept discussed and approved                             30d                                p  May 22 97
129       Terms osf Refewnce f consultants produced and              30d                                    Jul 3 e9r
ap~IprovedJu3'9
13O       Consullants selected, contract negotiated and approved     50d                                       Sep 11 97
131       Consultants working: programs, policies and               20w
organizational framework developed                                                                         Jan 29 '98
132       Management development and training system:                 Od
implementation starts                                                                                          Mar 26 9J
Note conditions h for appraisal  negotiations                                       Pagea                DISK@EC2HR@WORLDBANKI IUNGARYtIIIEDUCAT%WI it fLANNt4K  2 MPP



Annex 16
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
CONDITIONS FOR PROJECT PHASES
Conditions for Start            Conditions for Phase 2          Conditions for Phase 3             End of Project
Policy Objective                    (Year 0)                       (End Year 2)                    (End Year 4)                    (End Year 6)
(December 1997)                  (December 1999)                 (December 2001)                (December 2003)
1. Rationalize allocation    1. MOE and FTT agree to     1. Detailed design of the system  National testing used effectively   I. Size of per student grant
of state-funded places so   proposed new allocation method in  completed, including decisions on    in determining grant allocations   determined for various fields
that student choice is a  Annex 5 based on (a) awarding  "Questions to be Clarified" in    to second cohort of entering   using actual cost data as starting
determining factor       grants to students by broad field  Annex 4.                       students                       point
based on results of a national  2. Higher Education Act modified                                 2. New allocation method fully
examination , and (b) student   and new regulations issued as                                    operational
choice of HEI.                  necessary to accommodate new
2. MOE discontinues detailed    method
allocations to HEls effective in  3. National tests ready for use in
School Year 98                  determining grant allocations for
students entering system in School
Year 2000
2. Improve norms-based    MOE decides to:                 I. Maintenance of previous changes  1. Number of financing      I, Increase student-staff ratio
financing                I. Reduce number of normative   2. Increase student staff ratio basis   categories reduced to 4  basis of normative to 13:1
categories from 14 to 7         of normative from 8.7:1 to 10.5:1    2. Increase student staff ratio  2. Begin to finance on the basis
2. Integrate "operating costs" into   3. Eliminate college/university  basis of nornative to 12:1  of credit system
the normative model--           disparity for same degrees in     3. Eliminate college/university
starting in 1998                economics and law; begin phase out  disparities for same degree in all
of differences in other fields   fields
4. Complete study on rationalization
of medical, agricultural higher
education, policy decisions taken
3. Install credit system  1. MOE establishes NCC          1. New decree issued by MOE      Credit system implemented
and rationalize curricula   2. MOE establishes and staffs the    pursuant to 96 Law on     nation-wide
NCO                             establishment of the credit system
2. New decrees issued by MOE on
guidelines for defining
qualifications requirements          .



Annex 16
Page 2
l ii:: :-Conditions for Start  7       Co'nditions for Phase 2         Conditions for Phase 3            End of Project
:PolicyObjective:                   (Year0)                        (End Year 2)             .      (End Year 4)                   (End Year 6)
* .tti ffiEx 0 V f; (December 1997)                           (December1999)                 (December2001)                 (December 2003)
4. Achieve greater       Agreement signed between MOF,   Agreement revised on the basis of    Extension of greater financial    All HEls have full financial
financial authority for  MOE and three pilot HEIs        experience and extended to new    authority to other HENs       authority
HEls:   _                                                HEls participating in the project
5. Establish student loan    Government prior to project  Complete detailed design, enact  Review initial experience and
program                  effectiveness establishes Task  required legislation, establish   expand access to guarantee to
Force to design and evaluate    guarantee agency, and initiate    all students in accredited higher
student loan guarantee program  guarantee program on a pilot basis   education institutions
under agreed terms of reference  for a group of low risk students    _____
6. Target student support   Government, by project       Complete evaluation of alternative    Allocate at least 75% of the
subsidies on most needy    effectiveness, presents proposal  procedures for identifying financial  student support subsidy on the
and termns of reference, acceptable  need. Begin to allocate no less than   basis of financial need
to Bank, for a study of procedure    75% of the student support subsidy
for targeting the student support    on the basis of need.
subsidy on needy students
7. Increase private      Government agrees to reduce by    Informn HEls that coverage of costs   Reduce normative coefficient    Maintain training normative at
resource mobilization    end of year 6 the share of average   through the training normative is    to 90% of previous year's  80% of previous year's average
instructional costs financed by the   going to be reduce gradually to 80%   average costs       costs
training normative to 80% of the    of the previous year's actual costs
previous year's average actual cost  of instruction
of instruction
Acronyms:
MOF   Ministry of Finance
FTT    Higher Eduction and Research Council                                NCC   National Credit Council
HEI   higher education institution                                         NCO   National Credit Office
MOE   Ministry of Culture and Education                                    SY      school year



Annex 17
Hungary Higher Education Reform Project
Monitoring Indicators
I. Ensure Responsiveness to Changing Social and Economic Needs
Quantitative Indicators:
I . Hungarian and OECD enrollment rates, as a proportion of age cohorts, over time.
2. Comparison of (i) student applications, (ii) enrollment allocations and (iii) number of
students admitted by field of study.
3. Enrollments in non-state HE1s, both church and non-church.
Qualitative Indicators:
4. Description and analysis of new or changed degree programs over the reporting period, with
particular emphasis on creation of broader. more flexible degree programs and deferment of
specialization
5. Status of review and revision of qualification requirements
6. Status of implementation of the credit system
7. Functioning of new system of allocation of state-funded student places
8. Analysis of annual norms-based funding formulae and allocations to HEls
II. More Efficient Use of Resources
Quantitative Indicators:
9. Trends in recurrent cost per student, and the share of total for the various componenits
* including teaching costs, administrative and overhead costs, support and service costs; and
other costs (e.g. research, etc.)
10. Student: staff ratios (full time equivalents) and their determinants:
*  student weekly contact hours,
*  class sizes,
*  faculty teaching loads
*  faculty costs.
Qualitative Indicators:
11. Evidence of application of norms, standards and criteria in investment project selection
12. Effective operation of new systems at the HEI level, e.g. institutional, strategic, capital
investment, annual budget planning and financial management systems.
III. Mobilize Non-Public Resources and Create More Equitable Financing
Quantitative Indicators:
13. Total expenditures on higher education
14. Proportion of total expenditures financed by the state.
15. Public support as a percentage of Hungarian GDP
16. Amount and percentage of total expenditures of public institutions raised from private (i.e.
non-HEI budget) sources by type (i.e. sale of services; tuition and fees; rental of facilities and
equipment; outside research funding, etc.)
17. Number of students paying tuition in public HEls and ranges of amounts
18. Percent of total public higher education expenditures goinig to non-public institutions
Qualitative Indicators:
19. Extent to which lower income students are enrolled in highier education
20. Existence and use of practical means tests to identify students in financial need.






Annex 18
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
FY 1998
Timing                     Staff Weeks              Staffing
Spring 1998                 18 weeks                     Bank Resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager (4 weeks)
- Operations Assistant (3 weeks)
- Consultant on Higher Education (3 weeks)
-  Desk Reviews of IDPs, TORs (8 weeks)
Fall 1998                   18 weeks                     Bank Resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager (4 weeks)
-  Operations Assistant (3 weeks)
- Consultant on Higher Education (3 weeks)
- Desk Reviews of IDPs, TORs (8 weeks)
Total FYI 998               36 weeks
Fall 1998                   18 weeks                    Bank Resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager (4 weeks)
- Operations Assistant (3 weeks)
- Consultant on Higher Education (3 weeks)
- Desk Reviews of IDPs, TORs (8 weeks)
Spring 1999                 18 weeks                    Bank Resources (18 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager (4 weeks)
- Operations Assistant (4 weeks)
- Consultant on Higher Education (4 weeks)
- Desk Reviews od IDPs, TORs (6 weeks)
Total FY1999                36 weeks
FY2000
Fall 1999                   12 weeks                    Bank Resources (12 weeks) of which:
- Task Manager (3 weeks)
- Operations Assistant (3 weeks)
- Desk Reviews of IDPs, TORs (6 weeks)
Spring 2000                 12 weeks                    Bank Resources (12 weeks)
- Task Manager (3 weeks)
- Operations Assistant (3 weeks)
- Desk Reviews of IDPs, TORs (6 weeks)
Total FY2000                24 weeks






Annex 19
Page 1
Repubic of Hungary
Higher Education Reform Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Schedule of Procurement Arrangements
Date: October 29, 1997
Contract   Implement-
Total Cost  Procurement  Advert-   Responsible   Award         ation
(lJSSOOO)    Method      isement   Ulnit          Expected   Period
GENERAL PROCt1REMENT NOTICE:                                                11/16197   Bank/PMU
PROCUREMENT WORKSHOP:                                                       01198      Bank/PMU
WORKS:
ICB (New Construction):
1. Szeged University (I tender)                      27.5       ICB        10/98     SU/FEFA       02/99       02/19-02/01
2. Debrecen University (I tender)                     18.5      ICB        11/98     DU/FEFA       03199       03/99-01/01
3. Phase 2. Site A ( I tender)                       22.0       ICB        05/99     Us/FEFA        10/99      10/99-12/01
4. Phase 2. Site B (I tender)                         10.0      ICB        07/99     Us/FEFA        11/99       11/99-12/01
5. Phase 3, Site D (I tender)                        22.0       ICB       07100      Us/FEFA        11/00      11/00-03/03
6. Phase 3, Site E (i tender)                         10.0      ICB        08/00     Us/FEFA       06/01       06/01-01/04
SubJotal (6 ICB lenders):     110.0
NCB - REFURBISHMENT AND
BUILDING TANSFORMATION
1. Szeged University (I tender)                       1.0      NCB        02/98      SU/FEFA       05/98       05/98-1(/99
Kecskemet University (3 tenders)
2. Transformations: Mech.Eng. College/                4.0       NCR        10/98     KU/FEFA       01/99       01/19-12/00
Lang. Inst/Common Campus Improvements
3. Dormitories Transformation                         3.1       NCB        03/98     KU/FEFA       06/98       06/98-03/()(
4. Teacher Training College                           4.9       NCR        12/98     KU/FEFA       03/99       03/99402/01
PHASE 2
5. Phase 2, Site B (2 tenders)                        4.0       NCO       03/99      Us/FEFA       05/99       05/(9-12100
6.                                                    2.0       NCB        07/99     Us/FEFA       09/99       09/99-061()(
7. Phase 2. Site C (4 tenders)                        4.9       NCB       04/99      Us/FEFA       06/99       06/99-()7/01
8.                                                    4.9       NCO        12/99     Us/FEFA       03100       03/00-04/02
9.                                                    4.8       NCB        04/00     Us/FEFA       07/00       07/00-03()2
10                                                     4.9      NCB        07/00      Us/FEFA       10/00       10/00-09/02
PHASE 3
I1. Phase 3. Site E (2 tenders)                        3.7      NCR        03/00      Us/FEFA       06/00      06/00-12/01
12.                                                    3.2      NCR        05/00      Us/FEFA       08/00      0X/()- 11
13. Phase 3. Site F (4 tenders)                        4.9      NCB        11/00      Us/FEFA       02/01      021()1-04/03
14.                                                    4.9      NCB        04/01      Us/FEFA       07/01       07/01-09/0)2
15.                                                    4.9      NCO        09/01     lJs/FEFA       12/01       12/01-12/0(3
16.                                                    4.9      NCB        01/02     l)s/FEFA       04/02      04/02-03/0)4
Subtotal (16 NCB tenders):       65.0
Design and Supervision:
1. Szeged University                                  2.0      QCBS       02/98      SU/FEFA       05/98       05/98-1OAu)O
2. Debrecen University                                 1.2     QCRS        03/98     DU/FEFA       06/98       06/98-10/00
3. Kecskemet University                               0.4      QCBS        02/98     DU/FEFA       05/98       05/98-101()0
4. Site A                                              1.5     QCBS        03/99     Us/FEFA       08/99       09/99-10/(01
5. Site B                                             2.0      QCBS        03/99     Us/FEFA       08/99       09/99-10/01
6. Site C                                              1.5     QCBS        03/99     Us/FEFA       08/99       09/99-1/1()
7. Site D                                             2.0      QCBS       03/00      Us/FEFA       08/00       09/00-10/02
8. Site E                                              1.5     QCBS       03/00      Us/FEFA       08/00       09/(N)-1(0/02
9. Site F                                              1.3     QCBS        03/00     Us/FEFA       08/00       09/00-10)/02
Sublotal (9 design competitions)     13.4
TOTAL WORKS:              188.4  _              _          _                       1



Annex 19
Page 2
Contract   Implement-
Total Cost  Procurement  Advert-   Responsible   Award          ation
(USSOOO)     Method       isenment   tJnit         Expected    Period
GOODS:
Equipment and Furniture for Subprojects                14.9      NBF        Ongoing   Uniiversities   On1gOi ng    06/98-06/02
MIS Software and Hardware:
1. Phase I Sites                                       4.3      ICB        05/99       Us/FEFA       01/99       02/99-05/99
2. Szeged                                             0.45        IS        06/98      Us            08/98       (9/98
3. Debrecen                                            0.3        IS        07/98      Us            09/98       1(0/98
4. Kecskemet                                           0.3        IS        08/98      Us            10/98       11/98
5. Phase If Sites                                      4.3       ICB        05/01      Us/FEFA       01/01       02/()1-()5/0(1
6. Site A                                             0.45       IS         06/00      Us            08/00       09/0(
7. Site B                                              0.3       IS         07/00      Us            09/00       1(/()
8. Site C                                              0.3        IS        08/00      Us            10/00       11/()()
9. Phase 111 Sites                                     4.2       ICB        05/02      Us/FEFA       01/03       0)2/03-05/03
10. Site A                                             0.45       IS        06/02      Us            08/02       09/()2
11. Site B                                             0.3        IS        07/02      Us            09/02       10/02
12. Site C                                              0.3       IS        08/02      Us            10/02       11/02
Subtotal MIS:        15.95
Offlce Equipment:
1. Institutional Development                           0.04       NS        03/15/98   PMU/FEFA    05/15/98    0)6/98
2. Student Loans                                        0.1       NS        03/15/98   PMIU/FEFA    05/15/98    0)6/98
3. Student Loans                                       0.05       NS        06/15/99   PMU/FEFA    07/15/99    ()8/99
4. Szeged University                                    0.2       IS        03/15/98   PMU/FEFA    05/15/98    06/98
5. Debrecen University                                 0.15       IS        03/15/98   PMU/FEFA    05/15/98    06/98
6. Kecskemet University                                 0.1       NS        03/15/98   PMU/FEFA    05/15/98    06/98
7. University A                                         0.2       IS        09/15/99   PMU/FEFA    I 1/15/99    12/99
8. University B                                        0.15       IS        09/15/99   PMU/FEFA    11/15/99    12/99
9. University C                                         0.1       NS        09/15/99   PMU/FEFA    11/15/99    12/99
10. University D                                        0.2       IS        09/15/01   PMU/FEFA    11/15/01    12/0)
11. University E                                        0.1       NS        09/15/01   PMU/FEFA    I 1/15/01    12/01
12. University F                                      0.05        NS        09/15/01   PMU/FEFA    11/15/0 1    12/0)1
Subtotal Office Equipment:        1.44
Materials:
1. Student Loan Program: Year 2                       0.08       NS         03/99      MOE/PMU       04/99       05/99
2.                                                    0.06       NS         06/99      MOE/PMU    07/99          08/99
3.                                                    0.06       NS         09/99      MOE/PMU       10/99       11/99
4.                  Year 3                            0.08       NS         03/00      MOE/PMU    04100          05/1)0
5.                                                    0.06       NS         06/00      MOE/PM U    07/00         08/00
6.                                                    0.06        NS        09/00      MOE/PMU       10/00       11/0()
7.                  Year 4                            0.08       NS         03/01      MOE/PMU       04/01       ()5/()1
8.                                                    0.06       NS         06/01      MOE/PMU    07/01          08/01
9.                                                    0.06       NS         09/01      MOE/PMU       10/01       11/()1
10.                 Year 5                            0.08        NS        03/02      MOE/PMU       04/02       1)5/0)2
11.                                                   0.06        NS        06/02      MOE/PMU    07/02          08/02
12.                                                   0.06        NS        09/02      MOE/PMU        10/02       11/0)2
13.                  Year 6                           0.08        NS        03/03      MOE/PMU       04/03       1)5/03
14.                                                    0.06       NS        06/03      MOE/PMU    07/03          08/03
15.                                                   0.06        NS        09/03      MOE/PMU       10/03        11/0)3
16. Project Managemenit ($0.13/year over 6 year)        0.8       NS        01/98      PMU           02/98       0)2/98-0)6/0)3
Subtotal Materials:        1.71
STOTAL GOODS:               34.0
SERVICES:
Policy Development & Implementation:
1. Funding Mechanims                                   1.2     QCBS        06/98      MOE/PMIJ    1)/98         I1/98-1(/()()
2. Subsidies / Private Higher Education                0.4      QCBS       ()3/99     MOE/PMU       ()7/99       08/99-07/1)1)
3. International Advisory Board:
Semi-Annual Mtgs of Panel Experts (four             0.2        IC        02/98      MOE/PMU       03/98       03/98-06/103
person-weeks per year over six years)
Supervisory-Advisory Services (12 p-weeks            1.0       IC        02/98      MOE/PMU    03/98          03/98-067/0)3
per year over six years)
Institutional Development:
4. National Credit Office (NCO)                        1.4      QCBS       09/98      MOE/PMU        12/98       12/98-12/00



Annex 19
Page 3
Contract   Implement-
Total Cost  Procurement  Advert-   Responsible   Award         ation
(tJSSOOO)    Method      isement   tJnit          Expected   Period
5. H igher Education & Science Council (FTT)          0.8     QCBS        03/00     MOE/PMU    0615/00    06/00-05/02
6. Training - HEls Development Offices/MAB            1.2      QCBS       06/00     Us/PMU         1(/00      11/00-(16/03
7. Accreditation (MAB):
Intemational Experts (2 persons for 2 years)       0.4       IC        01/98      MOEtPMU    02/98          02/98-)/1()(
National Experts (2 persons for 2 years)           0.2       IC        01/98      MOE/PMU    02/98          02/98-01/00
Management Information Systems:
6. Strategy Analysis Requirements                     1.0      QCBS       07/98      MOE/Us       08/98       09/98-12/00
7. MIS Systems Development (Financial)                2.2     QCBS        01/99      MOE/Us       05/99       06/99-12/01
8. MIS System Development (Registry&Admin)            2.6     QCBS        06/99      MOE/Us        10/99       W1/99-06/02
Local university MIS logistics experts             0.2       IC         01/99     Us            02/99       02/99-06/0)3
Management Development Training:
9. Reform Policies and Products                       0.6     QCBS        07/98      MOE/PMU    04/30/98    05/9-09/100
10. Continuing Education Modules                      0.7      QCBS       12/99      MOE/PMU    04/30/0(0   05/00-04/0)2
1 1. Fellowslhips and Study Tours                     1.9      QCBS       12/01      MOE/PMU    04/30)/02    05102-12/03
University Twinning Partnerships:
12. Szeged University                                 0.6       FBS       06/98      Us/PMU        09/98      Ongoing
13. Debrecen University                               0.5       FBS       06/98      Us/PMU        1)9/98     Ongoing
14. Kecskemet University                              0.5       FBS       06/98      Us/PMU        09/98      Ongoing
15. Site A                                            0.5       FBS       06/00      Us/PMU        09/00      Ongoing
16. Site B                                            0.5       FBS       06/00      Us/PMU        09/00      Ongoing
17. Site C                                            0.5       FBS       06/00      Us/PMU        09/00       Ongoing
18. Site D                                            0.5       FBS       06/02      Us/PMU        09/02       Ongoing
19  Site E                                            0.5       FBS       06/02      Us/PMU        09/02       Ongoing
20. Site F                                            0.5       FBS       06/02      Us/PMU        09/02       Ongoilng
21. Student Loan Program                              1.8      QCBS       06/98      MOE/PMU    08/15/98    09/98-04/0Il
Project Preparation Facility                          1.1      [PPFI      [10/971    PMU           11/30/97    10/97-03/98
22. Project and Sector Management: (each over
six project years)
Project Manager                                  0.7       IC         03/98     MOE/PMU    04/98         (04/98-06/03
Higher Education Policy Expert                   0.2        IC        03/98     MOE/PM U    04/98         04/98-06)03
Higher Education Training Expert                 0.2        IC        03/98     MOE/PMU    04/98          04/98-06/03
University MIS Systems Expert                    0.2       IC         03/98     MOE/PMU    04/98         (04/98-06/03
Junior Analysts                                   0.4      IC         03/98     MOE/PMU    04/98          04/98-06/03
Federation Offrice Managers (9 sites)             1.0      IC        03/98      MOE/PMU    04/98          04/98-06/03
TOTAL SERVICES:              26.2
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS:                            1.4      NBF
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:              250.0
Procurement Methods:
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
IS: International Shopping
NS: National Shopping
QCBS: Quality-Cost-Based Selection Process for consulting firms
FBS: Fixed Budget Selection
IC: Individual Consultants
NBF: Non-Bank Financed
Implementing Agencies:
Us: Universities
MOE: Ministry of Education
PMU: Project Management Unit
FILE: N:\hungary\highed\GC20\anx-1 7gc.doc






Annex2O
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    The World Banks' Country Assistance Strategy for Hungary attaches highest
priority to activities that will (a) restore macro economic stability; (b) accelerate
employment growth; (c) facilitate accession to the European Union; (d) promote private
sector development; (e) increase the efficiency of public sector investments; and (f)
develop human resources.
2.    The proposed Hungarian Higher Education Project will assist Hungary in
reforming its post secondary training institutions, colleges and universities. These
reforms will enable Hungary to provide a better quality higher education to up to 50%
more of its young people, stabilize public spending on higher education, and ensure that
the costs of providing the education were more equitably distributed. More specifically,
the project will increase the capacity of the higher education system by half, stabilize or
reduce its total cost, improve the quality and relevance of learning outcomes, and
distribute the costs of education in a more equitable manner. These reforms will over
time reduce the burden on the state of paying for higher education; speed the adjustment
of the skills of workers to the requirements of an out-ward oriented, market economy,
promote the development of a demand-driven, market economy; increase the efficiency
of the higher education system; and contribute to the further development of the skills of
Hungary's workers and citizens. In addition, the proposed project will promote reform of
the structure of the curriculum and of teaching methods in order to increase graduates
capacity to function effectively in a rapidly changing economic environment.
Background
3.    These extraordinary opportunities to improve efficiency exist primarily because of
post war higher education policies that forced the break-up and dispersion of Hungarian
colleges and universities. These policies were implemented in order to minimize the
possibility that higher education institutions might become centers of political discontenit.
In addition, following World War II the authority to grant the Ph.D. degree was
withdrawn from the universities and transferred to newly formed academies of science.
The higher education system that emerged was made up of small, highly specialized
teaching institutions, scattered widely around the country, and the scientific academies.
Even after nearly a decade of democratic government and a fifty percent increase in
college and university enrollments, more than half of Hungary's 87 public institutions of
higher education enroll fewer than 1500 students. Despite rapid expansion of higher
education during the transition period, only 12-15% of the population aged 18-22 years is
now enrolled full time in any form of post-secondary education. Moreover, the break up
of the universities and the promotion of small, highly specialized teaching program



Annex 20
Page 2
yielded the most unaffordable higher education system in Europe. The average cost per
student of higher education represents 74% of per capita GDP.
4.    The Higher Education Project confronts the three most important sources of
inefficiency in the Hungarian colleges and universities. First, it address the inefficiencies
that result from very small scale operation of administrative and student services. By
creating federations of smaller higher education institutions, it is possible to operate
administrative systems such as payroll, accounting, student records and stores
management at far lower cost. By integrating services such as student housing, food
services, transportation, laundry services, cleaning, safety and stores it is possible to
reduce costs still further.
5.    Second, the project allows for more efficient use of instructional resources by
enabling colleges and universities to exploit economies of scope and scale in teaching.
The isolation of teaching institutions has limited the size of introductory classes and
service courses to the number of students matriculated in a particular degree program.
The reform will produce multi-faculty universities and colleges in which related degree
programs can draw on one another for instruction in foundational topics and development
of basic skills. A course credit system will be introduced to allow programs to account
for courses taken and to facilitate the transfer of credits from one program or institution to
another. The opportunities for exploiting scale economies in teaching are especially great
in such areas as mathematics, communications skills, linguistics and behavioral sciences.
In order to exploit these opportunities, institutions will also need to increase the number
of classrooms that can accommodate large lecture classes.
6.    Third, the reform program will facilitate the introduction of cost-effective
teaching methods. The Hungarian higher education system relies heavily on lectures to
transmit knowledge. Students are required to spend an average of about 29 hours in class
each week; in medical schools, students are expected to spend between 42 and 46 hours
in class each week. At the same time, students are not required to read extensively or to
pursue independent study or research. The transition to a system of instruction that
demands greater effort and initiative from students is blocked by an acute shortage of
appropriate space. The reform project will finance construction and equipment of
libraries, computer laboratories and study areas in which students might pursue their
studies independently and without supervision. This innovation will be accompanied by
a reduction in hours in class of 20 to 50%. The reform will not only reduce the amount of
academic staff time required to teach each student, but will also help to develop further
students' skills in ability to manage a variety of information resources and to synthesize
and construct meaning with these resources.
7.    The proposed project will also create a more equitable system of higher education
finance. At present 90% of all students attend either a public college or a public
university. With reform, tuition charges and academic fees will be gradually increased in
order to recover approximately 20% of the cost of instruction directly from benefiting
students. The reform of higher education finance will be implemented gradually since



Annex )O
Page 3
households have not been expected to pay for higher education and therefore have not
accumulate savings in order to meet these expenses. In addition, the traumatic economic
events that have accompanied the transition from a centrally planned to market economy
have eroded whatever savings households had accumulated. The project will support the
development of a student loan program, guaranteed by an independent student loan
guarantee agency
Analysis of Project Alternatives
8.    The project concept being proposed was chosen from four broad alternatives. The
Hungarian higher education system must for political and economic reasons expand
dramatically in the near future. The adoption of democratic political institutions has
made the public's demand for equitable access to higher education impossible for
political leaders to resist. The nation's college and universities must open their doors to
those who are qualified to enter and who might reasonably expect to gain from the
experience. The integration of the Hungarian economy into the economy of Western
Europe will raise economic expectations while pitting the Hungarian work force against a
labor force that is on average much better trained. Hungary must raise the qualifications
of its labor force by ensuring that 25-30% of its youth are provided with a post-secondary
education.
9.    The No-Change Counterfactual. The base case scenario is the counterfactual
defined as the system of higher education that will prevail if no reforms in public higher
education policy were to be introduced. This option implies that the growth in enrollment
demanded by the society and economy will be met by an education system exhibiting the
same structure and pursuing the same operating policies as at present. In addition,
sensitivity analyses have explored an alternative counterfactual in which the compression
of academic salaries that occurred during the 1990s due to high inflation is assumed to be
reversed. In this case, it has been assumed that academic staff must be paid salaries that
on average yield a return on their investment in education that is no less than the
opportunity cost of capital. In order to satisfy this criteria, average salaries must increase
by roughly a factor of three. The capacity of higher education institutions is being fully
utilized at present, so further enrollment growth will require investment in both teaching
space and student support facilities.
Alternatives
10.   Privatization of Higher Education. The option of privatizing higher education has
been dismissed for two reasons. First, the private sector will not be able to operate
Hungary's higher education system with the revenues that might be obtained from
students and their families. Even though the rate of return on education is attractive in
Hungary, even during the transition, the ability of households and students to invest in
education is severely limited by the absence of a well-developed credit market. Private
lenders are unwilling to lend for education unless a full guarantee of repayment can be
secured from a competent guarantee agency, since the loans generally cannot be secured



Annex 20
Page 4
by a lien on property. Loans to students are especially risky because the students' success
as either a student or a worker has not yet been demonstrated. Second, the higher
education system, as joint products of teaching, provides research and advisory services
that are non-rivalrous: the optimal supply of these services can be assured only through
public sector intervention.
11.    Promotion of Private Education. The option of promoting private higher
education as a means of meeting the demand for additional places in colleges and
universities has also been discarded. About ten percent of students enrolled in higher
education institutions attend a private college or university. These institutions charge
tuition but may receive state support if they qualify for accreditation. About 40% of the
costs of operation of accredited private institutions is financed by the state. The unit
costs of instruction are lower in private than public universities principally because
private institutions rely almost entirely on part-time, adjunct faculty drawn from public
colleges and universities. Moreover, the private higher education system has focused on
supplying low cost programs of instruction in fields such as management, law, linguistics
and theology. No private Hungarian institution provides instruction in the sciences,
medicine, engineering or the performing arts where unit costs are much greater. Thus the
ideal of a multi-faculty university will not be fulfilled by private institution. Instead, the
private sector will address demands for vocationally oriented training. In order for the
private sector to provide instruction in the sciences, medicine and engineering will
reqluire enormous investments in specialized facilities. The public sector has the required
bui]l[dings and equipment and should be reoriented to meet the needs of a larger number of
students.
12.   Reform and Expansion of the Public System. The third option is to reform public
higher education. By merging small institutions into true universities, introducing a
course credit, creating opportunities to transfer credit among institutions and degree
programs, and modemizing instructional methods the required expansion could be
achieved at low cost. The Hungarian system of higher education at present relies very
heavily on classroom instruction as the primary teaching method and emphasizes the
mastery of vocational applications of knowledge through extensive practical instruction
in laboratories and workshops. The duration of formal instruction is much greater than in
Western Europe; about half of all students are enrolled in university programs of 5 or 6
years duration. The other half are enrolled in college programs which last for 3 or 4
years. Substantial cost savings could be achieved by requiring that students assume
greater responsibility for their own education by devoting much larger amounts of time to
reading, research and writing while at the same time spending much less time in formlial
classroom instruction. This change will release both academic staff and
classroom/laboratory space for additional students. The change will also help to develop
additional skills among students in identifying information, assessing its quality and
applying information and skills to novel situations. If Hungary were to adopt the
standards that prevail in high quality institutions in the West, it could free up nearly half
of its academic staff resources. Additional investments in administration and in facilities



Annex 20
Page 5
will be necessary to manage and accommodate individual study and to deliver large
lecture classes.
13.   Reducing the barriers between departments and faculties will not only permit
larger and more economical classes, but also promote greater cross-fertilization among
disciplines and academic groups. The project will support the realignment of course
requirements for diplomas and degrees so that acquisition of basic skills and knowledge
might occur in interdisciplinary settings. The participating institutions will review the
commonalties among degree requirements and design common courses that might be
taken by students from different programs. These services course might include
languages, mathematics, management and psychology, for example. The integration of
these requirements will not only reduce costs but will also promote broader
understanding of each discipline, cultivate skills in the application of broad knowledge to
specific situations and encourage competition among professors and departments for
students outside their respective degree programs.
Design Standards for Facilities
14.   The project will introduce for the first time, national standards for instructional
space, faculty offices and student services. These standards will facilitate the design and
appraisal of investments in higher education infrastructure. The proposed standards have
been adapted from North American standards in order to accommodate differences in the
subjects to be taught, methods of instruction, and patterns of social activity. These
standards will reduce the cost of capital investments by approximate 25%. In addition,
the review of standards has shifted attention to the cost of occupancy, including utilities.
maintenance and depreciation charges, rather than initial construction costs alone.
Role of the State in Higher Education
15.   Production of Education Services. The state will continue to play an important
role in the production of higher education in Hungary for the foreseeable future. A small
private higher education system has emerged during the 1 990s. The private sector now
enrolls about 10% of all college and university students. About half of private higher
education is conducted by religious institutions; the other half is operated by private, for-
profit organizations. The creation of multi-faculty universities in which students from a
broad range of disciplines enroll together in the same classes and interact informally
within the university community has eluded the private universities.
16.   On the other hand, Hungary has a highly developed system of public higher
education institutions. Moreover these institutions are increasingly becoming both
academically and financially autonomous. The introduction of a formula-based system of
state support for higher education has made public higher education institutions
responsive to market signals. Thus, Hungary is evolving a system of public higher



Annex 20
Page 6
education institutions that functions independently from state control and responds to
economic signals.
17.   Higher Education Finance. The state also has an important role in the financing
of higher education because markets for student loans are incomplete. Hungary's
consumer credit system is underdeveloped. But in addition, private credit institutions
everywhere are reluctant to offer student loans, principally because students typically
have little or no legally acceptable collateral with which to secure loans. A state
sponsored guarantee agency can provide the necessary assurances to the private banking
system. Moreover, the state often can apply a wider and more powerful array of
sanctions to borrowers who default on repayment of education loans. Thus, intervention
by the public sector is needed in order to make loan funds efficiently available to
students, and thereby to overcome political opposition to recovery of the cost of higher
education from beneficiaries.
Overview of Project Benefits
18.   The proposed project will finance the development of eight multi-faculty
universities. These universities combine about half of all public institutions of higher
education. The project will provide the funds necessary for them to renovate or
reconfigure existing space to allow for larger classes; build additional library anld
independent study space; consolidate administrative offices; implement a modern,
computerized data management system; and provide student services facilities, including
sports fields, assembly halls and student canteens.
Analysis of Sub-Projects
19.   Preparation of three sub-projects has occurred in parallel with development of this
project. The remaining five sub-projects will be financed during phase two or three of the
project. Work on the preparation of these sub-projects will take place during project
implementation. The most developed of the three reform plans is analyzed in detail
below as an illustration of the potential.
20.   The sub-projects will all pursue similar aims and will include similar components.
The first component will focus on increasing the capacity of the Hungarian higher
education system to meet the education and training needs of its citizens. This aim will
be accomplished primarily by using existing faculty and staff more intensively. The ratio
of students to instructional staff will be roughly doubled in participating institutions. This
objective will be realized by implementing four initiatives. First, the hours that students
are required to spend in formal classes will be reduced by about 25%. Second, core
courses in such areas as mathematics, communications and statistics will be combined for
clusters of students studying related disciplines (such as engineering, the social sciences
or the physical sciences) in order to reduce the numbers of classes offered by each
university. Third, the amount of individual study and independent research demanded of



Annex 20
Page 7
students will be increased sharply in order both to replace the learning sacrificed as a
result of reduced class time and to strengthen students' skills in learning independently.
And finally, the present tailored course offerings for each degree program will be
replaced by a modularized curriculum in which students will draw on offerings from
several faculties and departments in order to meet the requirements for a degree.
21.   In order to meet these objectives, it will first be necessary for the participating
faculties to adopt curricular reforms, for small independent faculties to integrate to form
true, multi-faculty universities and for the integrated universities to provide the
classrooms, laboratories, libraries, computer facilities and study areas needed for
independent, individual study.
22.   The project will also increase the quality of learning by creating a more
responsive, competitive system of higher education. Enrollments and institutional
budgets in the reformed system will be determined primarily by student choice rather
than central plans. The number of degree programs being offered will be both reduced
and greatly simplified. The stress placed on individual study and original investigations
will be greatly increased. The curriculum will be modularized and registration across
traditional departmental boundaries will be encouraged in order to allow students to
construct customized specializations. The modules will also be made available to
continuing education students to allow them to update and adapt their qualifications.
23.   The improvement of quality will also require the development of a credit system
for accounting for student work and an administrative apparatus for registering the credits
earned and assessing the completion of course requirements. The multi-faculty
universities will need to develop administrative centers and to invest in computer
technology with which to manage the registration of students and record completion of
degree requirements.
The Szeged University Reform
24.   The probable costs and benefits of the project may be illustrated by analysis of the
most fully elaborated plan, submitted by the Szeged University institutions. The
proposed project will spend US$32.1 million in order to provide the additional class room
space and joint facilities required in order for six regional colleges and universities to
merge to form a single multi-faculty university in Szeged. (The combined institutions
operated their classrooms at 96% of full capacity and their laboratory facilities at 103% of
capacity during the academic year 1996-97.) The investments will include the relocation
of sports facilities to allow construction of a library and study center, the construction of
the center, and construction of a student center. The designed capacity of the six
institutions will be increased from in 11,230 students in 1995-96, to about 16,000. The
leadership of the university projects enrollment growth of about 23% over the next five
years.



Annex 20
Page 8
25.   The Reform Program. The merging institutions will not only share existing
facilities but also permit cross registration of students among institutions. In addition, the
adoption of the reforms in teaching, being supported by this program, will allow the new
university to reduce its need for classroom space by at least 16%. However, in order to
accommodate a much larger number of large lecture classes, investments will be required
to build more lecture halls. In addition, the separate library facilities of the six
predecessor institutions will be relocated to create a single joint library in which study
space will be provided for about 1250 students at a time. The investment plan also
includes the development of a central administration building, the creation of a
computerized management information system, and the introduction of modern, higher-
education management systems including new budgeting and planning systems.
26.   The proposed reforms and related investments will increase the capacity of the
university at an estimated capital cost per designed additional student place of slightly
more than US$8100. This compares with a replacement cost per student averaging
US$31,200 for the combined institutions. This estimate includes clinical teaching
facilities in the medical school; the replacement cost per student of existing facilities
excluding the medical complex will be US$18,080. The number of instructional staff
will decline by about 5% over the next five years despite the enrollment growth because
of reductions in the amount of time in class required of students, and increases in the
number of classes each member of the academic staff will be required to teach. The
number of non-teaching staff will decline over time from the current 1950 to about 1300.
The decrease will be achieved primarily by combining administrative functions and
computerizing data management.
27.   At the same time, the reform and reorganization of the University of Szeged will
sigynificantly increase the quality of education by creating a more competitive internal
market for instruction; allowing more effective use of the university's best faculty;
permitting students to construct degree programs that are responsive to market
opportunities and student interests; creating a much wider range of course offerings from
which students may choose; and shifting emphasis from classroom instruction to
individual study and research.
28.   Project Costs. Estimates of the investment costs of these reforms are drawn from
an architectural master plan prepared for the Szeged University consortia. The design
and space standards were adapted from those used in creating the University of Illinois-
Chicago Circle Campus -- a campus with a designed enrollment of 18,000. The expected
enrollments by field of study and the space standards for faculty offices, common spaces
and student services were modified to reflect Hungarian realities, including the mix of
laboratory and classroom instruction associated with the distribution of major areas of
study. The use of construction materials and finishes has been reviewed to ensure
optimal durability. IUnit costs of construction were obtained from recent contracts; the
cost of classroom and library space were priced separately from areas to be used as
laboratories and workshops.



Annex 20
Pa-e 9
29.   Recurrent Cost Implications. Estimates of the recurrent cost of staffing the
university have been based on historical costs adjusted for changes in faculty work loads,
administrative staff requirements and required classroom instruction. In addition,
analyses of the effects of distortions in faculty salaries have been prepared. The salaries
paid to academic staff have been compressed in recent years due to tight public budgets.
These very low salaries cannot be maintained in the longer term without a massive
exodus of staff. Rather salaries must rise enough to cover the full opportunity cost of
time and investments in training. Non teaching staff may be expected to command
salaries that are competitive with highly trained workers in the public and private sector.
30.   An approximation of the minimum salary required to retain such staff may be
calculated as the salary paid secondary school graduates plus the amortized cost of higher
education. For purposes of these calculations, it is assumed that workers move directly
from school to work. The cost of a year of higher education ranges from 555,000 HUF
(US$3850) to 1,300,000 HUF (US$9100) depending on the field of study. The average
salary of a Hungarian worker with a secondary education was 560,000 HUF (US$3850)
in 1996. The cost of a Ph.D. degree (opportunity cost of student time plus training costs)
therefore ranges from as little as 9,000,000 HUF (US$63,000) to as much as 16,100,000
HUF (US$112,700). The annual amortized value of this training ranges from US$7600
to US$13,500 a year, if one assumes that the degree holder remains in the labor force for
30 years and the opportunity cost of capital is 8% a year. All of this taken together
implies that a university professor must earn between US$11,500 and US$17,350 if the
profession is to be competitive with alternative jobs. These figures are 2.2 to 3.3 times
the amount that professors are now being paid.
31.   These estimates of the cost of training assume that current technologies and wage
rates prevail, and that students bear the full cost of instruction. Currently students
contribute all of the opportunity cost of participating in higher education, but only about
10% of the direct costs of instruction. The private cost of a Ph.D. degree then ranges
from about $37,000 to $71,000 and the amortized cost of the degree is between $3900
and $7000 a year for each year of employment. Therefore, a salary of $7800 to $11,000
will be required to render investment in graduate studies financially attractive.
32.   Rates of Return on Investments. The value of benefits has been estimated using
the costs per student that will prevail without the project. This analysis suggest that the
rate of return on investments in the reform of higher education at Szeged University is
greater than 47% a year if very conservative assumptions are adopted. These
assumptions include (a) that academic salaries do not increase in real term; (b) that assets
created under the project have an economic life of only 10 years; and (c) that required
enrollment growth could be achieved in the without project case without further capital
investments. If one introduces the plausible assumption that academic salaries must rise
by a factor of 2.5 in order to attract and retain qualified staff, then the returns form the
project will cover all investment costs mid-way through the second year of full
operations. The results of the analysis also depend on the rate at which the increase in
capacity is translated into enrollments. In its calculations, the University has assumed



Annex 20
Page 10
that enrollment will grow at approximately five percent a year, leveling off at an
enrollment of 13,400 students (approximately 85% of designed capacity). However, if
one assumes that the new capacity is utilized more slowly, the rate of return is reduced by
about 10% to an annual rate of 38%.
33.   The flows of benefits and costs and the assumptions employed in these analyses
are summarized in Attachment 1 8-A. The sensitivity of estimated rates of return to a
range of plausible assumptions and cross-over values for these parameters are
summarized in Attachment 18-B.



Annex 20
Page I I
SUMMARY OF OPERATING COSTS BY
INTEGRATING INSTITUTION: SZEGED
UNIVERSITY
(1997 Costs in HUF Millions)
LABOR      MATERIALS    STIPENDS   MAINTENANCE    TOTAL
JATE              1756          604          479          199         3038
SZOTE             3034         1697          145          287         5163
JGYTF              586          202          179           28          995
SZEF               159           69           41            16         285
TOTAL             5535         2572          844          530         9481
WORKSHEET FOR COST OF                                         (Base
OPERATIONS                                                    Case)
1997 Values HUF Millions
LABOR COSTS  LABOR @2.5A   MATERIALS      STIPENDS MAINTENANCE         TOTAL
WAGES
JATE              1756         4390          604          479           199         3038
SZOTE             3034         7585         1697          145          287         5163
JGYTF              586         1465          202          179            28          995
SZEF               159        397.5           69           41            16          285
TOTAL             5535      13837.5         2572          844          530         9481
1997 Values in US$ Millions
LABOR COSTS  LABOR @2.5*   MATERIALS      STIPENDS MAINTENANCE         TOTAL
WAGES
JATE            $10.98       $27.44         $3.78        $2.99        $1.24       $18.99
SZOTE           $18.96       $47.41       $10.61         $0.91        $1.79       $32.27
JGYTF            $3.66        $9.16         $1.26        $1.12        $0.18        $6.22
SZEF             $0.99        $2.48         $0.43        $0.26        $0.10        $1.78
TOTAL           $34.59       $86.48       $16.08         $5.28        $3.31       $59.26



Annex 20
Page 12
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(US$ Millions)
Costs Without Project        Costs with Project
year    operating   capital    total    operating   capital    total    Net Flows
1998   $111.10    $46.20  $157.30   $111.10    $11.80   $122.90    $34.40
1999   $116.66    $23.00  $139.66   $107.21    $20.30   $127.51    $12.14
2000   $122.49            $122.49   $103.46             $103.46    $19.03
2001   $128.61            $128.61    $99.84              $99.84    $28.77
2002   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2003   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2004   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2005   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2006   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2007   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2008   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2010   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2011   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2012  $135.04             $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2013   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2014   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2015   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2016   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2017   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2018  $135.04              $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2019  $135.04             $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2020   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2021   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2022   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2023   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2024   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2025   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2026   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2027   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
Internal Rate of Return                                              Undefined
Assumptions:
1. Opierating costs based on 1997 actual costs.
2. Shadow wage of academic staff equals 2.5 1997 market wage.
3. Average economic life of structures and equipment is 30 years.
4. Capital costs to meet enrollment growth equal 20% of replacement cost of existing plant for without project scenario.
5. All ltechnical assistance and related investment in information technology occurs in the first year.
6. Enrollment grows by 6 percent a year for four years (total of 20%).
7. Staffing requirements reduced by 3.5% a year for each of five years.



Annex 20
Page I3
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(US$ Millions)
Costs Without Project        Costs with Project            Net Flows
year    operating   capital    total    operating   capital    total
1998   $111.10     $0.00   $111.10   $111.10    $11.80   $122.90  ($11.80)
1999  $116.66      $0.00   $116.66   $107.21    $20.30  $127.51  ($10.86)
2000  $122.49             $122.49   $103.46             $103.46    $19.03
2001   $128.61            $128.61    $99.84              $99.84    $28.77
2002   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2003   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2004   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2005   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2006  $135.04             $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2007   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2008   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2010   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2011   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2012   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2013   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2014   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2015   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2016   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2017   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2018   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2019   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2020   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2021   $135.04             $135.04    $96.34             $96.34    $38.70
2022   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2023   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2024   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2025   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2026   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
2027   $135.04            $135.04    $96.34              $96.34    $38.70
Intemal Rate of Retum                                                     84%
Assumptions:
1. Operating costs based on 1997 actual costs.
2. Shadow wage of academic staff equals 2.5 1997 market wage.
3. Average economic life of structures and equipment is 30 years.
4. Capital costs to meet enrollment growth equal 10% of replacement cost of existing plant for without project scenario.
(That is, the incremental capital cost of increasing enrollment capacity is equal to half the average historical cost.)
5. All technical assistance and related investment in information technology occurs in the first year.
6. Enrollment grows by 5% a year for four years (total of 20%).
7. Stafring requirements reduced by 3.5% each year for five years.



Annex 20
Page 14
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(US$ Millions)
Costs Without Project          Costs with Project             Net Flows
year    operating    capital   total    operating    capital  total
1998    $59.20     $0.00    $59.20    $59.20    $11.80    $71.00  ($11.80)
1999    $62.16     $0.00    $62.16    $57.13    $20.30    $77.43  ($15.27)
:2000    $65.27              $65.27    $55.13               $55.13    $10.14
2001    $68.53               $68.53    $53.20               $53.20    $15.33
2002    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2003    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2004    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2005    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2006    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2007    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2008    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2010    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2011    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2012    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2013    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2014    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2015    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2016    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2017    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2018    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2019    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2020    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2021    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2022    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2023    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2024    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2025    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2026    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
2027    $71.96               $71.96    $51.34               $51.34    $20.62
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 30 year asset life)                         49%
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 20 year asset life)                         49%
Internml Rate of Return (Assuming 10 year asset life)                         47%
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 5 year asset life)                          40%
Assumptions:
1. Operating costs based on 1997 actual costs.
2. Shadow wage of academic staff equals 1.0 times 1997 market wage.
3. Average economic life of structures and equipment is 30 years.
4. Capital costs to meet enrollment growth equal zero.
5. All technical assistance and related investment in information technology occurs in the first year.
6. Enrollment grows by 5% a year for four years (total of 20%).
7. Staffing requirements reduced by 3.5% a year for five years.



Annex 20
Page 1 5
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(US$ Millions)
Costs Without Project          Costs with Project             Net Flows
year    operating    capital  total    operating    capital   total
1998    $59.20      $0.00    $59.20    $59.20    $11.80    $71.00  ($11.80)
1999    $60.68      $0.00    $60.68    $57.13    $20.30    $77.43  ($16.75)
2000    $62.20               $62.20    $55.13                $55.13     $7.07
2001    $65.31               $65.31    $53.20                $53.20    $12.11
2002    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2003    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2004    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2005    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2006    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2007    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2008    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2010    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2011    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2012    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2013    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2014    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2015    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2016    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2017    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2018    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2019    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2020    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2021    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2022    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2023    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2024    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2025    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2026    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
2027    $66.94               $66.94    $51.34                $51.34    $15.60
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 30 year asset life)                          38%
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 20 year asset life)                          38%
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 10 year asset life)                          36%
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 5 year asset life)                           27%
Assumptions:
1. Operating costs based on 1997 actual costs.
2. Shadow wage of academic staff equals 1.0 times 1997 market wage.
3. Average economic life of structures and equipment is 30 years.
4. Capital costs to meet enrollment growth equal zero.
5. All technical assistance and related investment in information technology occurs in the first year.
6. Enrollment grows by 2.5% a year for four years (total of 10%).
7. Staffing requirements reduced by 3.5% each year for five years.



Annex 20
Page 16
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
(USS Millions)
Costs Without Project       Costs with Project          Net Flows
year    operating   capital    total   operating   capital    total
1998   $59.20    $0.00   $59.20   $59.20   $11.80   $71.00  ($11 80)
1999   $60.68    $0.00   $60.68   $58.17   $20.30   $78.47  ($17.79)
2000   $62.20             $62.20   $57.15              $57.15    $5.05
2001    $65.31            $65.31    $56.15            $56.15    $9.16
2002   $66.94             $66.94   $55.17              $55.17   $11.77
2003   $66.94             $66.94   $54.20             $54.20   $12.74
2004   $66.94             $66.94   $53.25             $53.25   $13.69
2005   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32             $52.32   $14.62
2006   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32             $52.32   $14.62
2007   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2008   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2010   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2011    $66.94            $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2012   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2013   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2014   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2015   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2016   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2017   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2018   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2019   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32             $52.32   $14.62
2020   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2021   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2022   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2023   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2024   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2025   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2026   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
2027   $66.94             $66.94   $52.32              $52.32   $14.62
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 30 year asset life)                  32%
Internal Rate of Return (Assuming 20 year asset life)                  32%
Intermal Rate of Return (Assuming 10 year asset life)                  28%
Internal Rate of Return(Assuming 5 year asset life)                    17%
Assumptions:
1. Operating costs based on 1997 actual costs.
2. Shadow wage of academic staff equals 1.0 times 1997 market wage.
3. Average economic life of structures and equipment is 30 years.
4. Capital costs to meet enrollment growth equal zero.
5. All technical assistance and related investment in information technology occurs in the first year.
6. Enrollment grows by 2.5% each year for four years (total of 20%).
7. Rate of staffing reduction is half the expected rate of 3.5% .



Annex 20
Page 17
Attachment 18-B
SUMMARY OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSES
(Estimates of Internal Rates of Return)
Asset Life: 30 years  20 years  10 years   5 years
Assumptions:
Analyses at Market Prices
Enrollment grows at 5.0% a year                  49        49        47        40
Enrollment grows at 2.5% a year                  38        38        36        27
Staff Reduction at Half Projected Rate
And No Investment in Without Scenarios           32        32        28         17
Shadow Wage Equals 2.5 Times Market Wage         84
(Enrollment grows at 2.5 % a year)






Annex 21
Page I
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HUNGARY HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Altman, Robert, "Monitoring Indicators (Proposed Higher Education Program, Hungary),"
November 21, 1996.
Altman, Robert, "Policy and Institutional Matrix (Hungarian Higher Education Project)",
December 2, 1996.
Altman, Robert, "Project Design Matrix (Including Summative Impact Indicators)" December
26, 1996.
Aradi, Zsolt, "Expert Opinion on "Policy Note," September, 1996.
Benk6, Dr. Stephen E., "The History of Tuition in Hungary," November, 1996.
Benko, Dr. Stephen E., "Preparation for the Higher Education Loan," March 1997.
Benk6, Dr. Stephen E., "International Support for Hungarian Higher Education," June, 1997.
Bakos, Karoly and Tamas Meszaros, Methodological proposal for definition of admission
frames in professional fields, November 1996.
Bakos, Karoly and Tamas M6szaros, " Possibilities of defining state financed student
enrolment   allocations by professional fields and institutions," January, 1997
Biedenweg, Dr. Frederick (Pacific Partners Consulting Group), Site Visit on Administrative
Systems, November 10 - 18, 1996.
Bojan, Robert and Balazs Poczkodi, "Educational (pre-) Savings System," November 11,
1996.
Center for Higher Education Policy Studies, "Draft Terms of Reference for Management
Development Program for Hungarian Higher Education," June, 1996.
Chaszar, Julianna and Peter Darvas, eds., Overall Analysis of Issues in Higher Education, July
17, 1996.
Claus, Frank and Peter Szivos, Proposal for a National Student Loan Plan for Hungary,
December, 1996.



Annex 21
Page 2
Coopers . Lybrand, "Agreements Reached at the October 29, 1996 Talks between
Representatives of the World Bank and Coopers/Lybrand and Representatives of the
Finance Ministry."
Coopers (\ Lybrand, Financial controls applied to higher education institutions (HEIs),
November 4, 1996.
Coopers & Lybrand, Hungarian Higher Education Institutional freedom to manage resources
(Final report for the World Bank, October 1996.)
Coopers (\ Lybrand, Hungarian Higher Education Content and development of HEI business
plans (Final report for the World Bank), April 1997.)
Csirik, Jdnos, "Policy Note -- Hungary (revised)," September, 1996.
Darvas, Peter, "Overall Analysis of Issues in Higher Education", April 29, 1997
Derenyi, Andras, "The introduction of the credit system to Hungary" (Version 2.2). February
18, 1997
Dinya, Laszl6, "State-of-the-art and strategic tasks" (White Paper), draft, November, 1996.
Dinya, Laszl6, "The Financing of the Hungarian Higher Education Modernization Program in
Connection with the World Bank Loan", Februaty 10, 1997
Feher, Csaba, Review of the Budgets and the Financial Reporting Systems at the Szeged
Universitas Affiliates, March 31, 1997
Freny6, V. Laszl6. ed,, "integration as an element of the modemization of higher education,"
based on reports by Karoly Bakonyi, Jarnes Cofer and Laszl6 Dinya and the comments
of the ad hoc Committee on Integration, December, 1995.
Kovacs, Tibor, "University and college scholarships," Novem ber, 1996.
Levy, Daniel, "Public Policy for Hungarian Private Higher Education," March, 1997.
Morgan, Antony W., "Assesment of Institutional Development Plans (Szeged, Debrecen,
Kecskem6t)," January, 1997
Morgan, Antony W., Timothy R. Warner, "Report on Site Visit to Szeged", September. 1996



Annex 21
Page 3
Morgan, Antony W., "Szeged University Institutional Development Plan", "Debrecen
University Institutional Development Plan", "Kecskemet University Institutional
Development Plan", April, 1997
Nagy, Judit D., Constraints on Development of Private Higher Education in Hungary - Report
for the World Bank, (revised), November 30, 1996
Nagy, Judit D., Sector Analysis of Higher Education in Hunga  - Report for the World Bank,
February, 1997
Peterne Hat6 Marta, "Expected income from tuition in state-supported HEIs (not including
medical and military institutions), 1996-2000," November, 1996.
Pol6nyi, Istvan, "An Outline of Simplified and Consolidated (Training and Establishment
Operating) Normative Financing," January 1997
Polonyi, Istvan, "A possible alternative for the steps and staging of the introduction of a
complete normative financing of higher education," November, 1996.
Polonyi, Istvan, A Review of the Economic Parameters of Higher Education in Hungary.
Polonyi, Istvan, Costs incurred by and the effects of the Higher Education Program in
Hungary, November, (1996).
Polonyi, Istvan, Formula and Block Financing - the antecedents of the normative financing of
Hungarian higher education, its present situation and future conceptions, June, 1996.
Preddey, George, Normative Financing, June 26, 1996.
Preddey, George, World Bank: Pre-Appraisal Mission to Hungary 2-13 December, 1996,
Technical Report on: Implementation of normative financing, Proposed allocative
mechanism, Proposed accountability mechanism, Proposed pilots for devolution of
financial authority, December 13. 1996
Preddey, George, "Response to 'An Outline of Simplified and Consolidated (Training and
Establishment Operating) Normative Financing,' by Istvan Polonyi (Ministry of Culture
and Education, January 1997", January, 1997



Annex 21
Page 4
Preddey, George, Defining state-financed student enrolment allocations by field/HEI (outline
for further development), February 26, 1997
Semj6n, Andras, "Attitudes towards Tuition Fee in Higher Education and Willingness to Pay
for learning," December, 1996.
Semjen, Andras, Overall Issues Analysis of Hungarian Higher Education with emphasis on its
current status and legal basis, September, 1996.
Semj'en, Andris, "Determining Total Admission to State-funded Higher Education and the
Allocation of Students between of Studies: Some Policy Options" (draft, May 1997)
Setenyi, Janos and Pter Drahos (Expanzi6 Consulting), The Development of the Higher
Vocational Education System in Hungary, 1996 Budapest.
Skrapits, Kriszta, "The Harmonisation of the Operations of the Higher Education Development
Fund (FEFA) and the Higher Education Tenders Office (FPI)," November, 1996.
Somogyi, Botond, "Report on Investments in Higher Education by the Ministry of Culture and
Education," November, 1996.
Varga., Julia, Private and Social Rates of Return to Education and to Higher Education by
Field.
Warner, Timothy and Dr. Frederick Biedenweg, "Report on Site Visit Regarding Hungarian
Higher Education Information Systems", March 31, 1997
Institution Development Plan, Federation of the Debrecen Universities (University of
Debrecen), 1996.
Institutional Development Plan, Kecskemet, 1996.
Institutional Development Plan, Szeged University, 1996.
June 19. 1997



IBRD 26084R
16'                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20                     22
HUNGARY                                                                                                          T. K ." 
T.u ..      UKRAINE
0 - MOTORWAYS            NATIONAL CAPITAL              i                            *v   L   '   AT7o  5otr:Ija sb l\ ,_NyJ
MRAINLROADS          i       )COUNTY (MEGYE) CAPITALS'              SLtO V AK    R E iP            BORSOD-ASA UJ-/ \. yt
CANALS            = --  COUNTYt(MEGYEI BOUNDARIES           <>rLsl                   '        +                                       @J          Ksedd~ \
T. W..                                                                                                                                             ' _  _ZB
-E46VBARANYAE$ X   7   .j>  .] ir  \                       SZATMAR- ShOIIZ                     by oh iA
t ^ * FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA s X7ALY +4,*n,j EULGgAt17W]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  L,h Th WodB,~kOh
S USTRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O EA
;I-.~~~~~T I                                                                                                                  8   R
SZOLNOK ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEME   5



