Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23135
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42870; PPFB-P3260; TF-29675)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC HUNGARY
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
November 8, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 09/10/01)
Currency Unit = Hungarian Forint (HUF)
HUF 1 = US$ 0.0035
US$ I = 284.13 HUF
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   -       Country Assistance Strategy
CIP   -       Capital Investment Plan
ECTS  -       European Credit Transfer System
ELTE  -       University of E6tvos L6rant of Budapest (E6tvos L6rant Tudomdny Egyetem)
EU    -       European Union
FEFA  -       Higher Education Development Fund (Felsooktatdsi Palyazati Iroda)
FFPI  -       Higher Education Program Office (Felsooktatasi Fejlesztesi Program Iroda)
FTT   -       Higher Education and Scientific Council (Felsooktatasi 6s Tudomanyos Tanacs)
GDP   -       Gross Domestic Product
HAC   -       Hungarian Accreditation Council
HEA   -       Higher Education Association
HEI   -       Higher Education Institution
HUF   -       Hungarian Forint
IDP   -       Institution Development Plan
LA    -       Loan Agreement
MAB  -        Hungarian Accreditation Council (Magyar Akkreditaci6s Bizottsdg)
MOE  -        Ministry of Education
MOF  -        Ministry of Finance
NCC   -       National Credit Committee
NCO   -       National Credit Office
OECD -        Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PHRD -        Policy and Human Resources Development Grant
PMU   -      Project Management Unit
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
;              ~~~~~Country Manager/Director:    Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:   Jamnes A. Socknat
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mary Canning



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   11
6. Sustainability                                                                       12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     16
10. Additional Information                                                              27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performnance                                      39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
IFC authorization.






Project ID: P039449                                       Project Name: HIGHER EDUCATION
Team Leader: Mary Canning                                 TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                        Report Date: November 8, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHER EDUCATION                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-42870;
PPFB-P3260;
TF-29675
Country/Department: HUNGARY                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: ET - Tertiary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/09/1996                              Effective: 06/05/1998          06/05/1998
Appraisal:  05/20/1997                                MTR:
Approval:  02/26/1998                              Closing: 06/30/2004           10/23/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners: NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Countrv Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                             Millard Long
Sector Manager:      James A. Socknat                           James A. Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:   Mary Canning                              Richard K. Johanson
ICR Primary Author:   Donald R. Winkler
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Hungary Higher Education Reform Project [HERP] followed the Hungary Human Resources
Development Project [HRDP], which had as one of its important objectives strengthening higher
education through modernizing its research capacity. The knowledge and experience gained through the
implementation of that project demonstrated the need for a systemic reform of Hungarian higher
education to increase access to higher education, to improve market responsiveness, and to improve
efficient resource use, objectives stated in the 1995 CAS and reiterated in the 1998 CAS. The 1998 CAS
narrowed the focus of Bank assistance to the Government of Hungary [GOH] to two primary objectives,
one of which was to support the country's efforts to join the EU. Higher education reform was viewed as
necessary for Hungary to become integrated into the EU.
The HERP was designed to [a] increase responsiveness to social and economic needs, [b] improve the
operating efficiency of the system, [c] mobilize private finance, and [d] improves equity in higher
education finance. Each of these objectives had a number of corresponding sub-objectives as
su'nmarized in the table taken from the SAR below in which objectives (c) and (d) were amalgamated
intD objective 3.
PRINCIPAL OBJECTIVES       SUB-OBJECTIVES
1. Increase higher education's  a. Raise enrollment rates to at least 25% of the age
responsiveness to changing  group 18-22 years.
social and economic needs.
b. Allocate enrollments and financial support to HEis
based on student demand.
c. Restructure educational objectives, structure, and
content so as to respond more flexibly to changes in
labor market demands.
d. Develop more responsive governance, advisory, and
management functions.
2. Use resources more efficiently. a. Provide means and incentives for HEls to control
expenses.
b. Economize on investment and development
expenditures.
c. Reduce administrative expenditures per student.
d. Reduce teaching costs per student.
e. Manage expenditures on student services more
efficiently.
3. Mobilize non-state resources  a. Mobilize additional private resources within public
and create a more equitable  HEls.
system for financing higher
education.
b. Increase the contribution of private higher education
as a share of national higher education expenditures.
c. Provide selective state support of students on the
basis of financial need.
3. 2 Revised Objective:
Following a change of Government in Hungary and a delay in implementation of the project, during an
April 1999 supervision mission, the GOH and the Bank considered a new series of deadlines for the
completion of the policy actions which were originally agreed during Project preparation. An amended
Loan Agreement was subsequently signed by the Bank and Government in late 1999. The Development
Objectives of the Project were not significantly changed by this Amendment.
- 2 -



3.3 Original Components:
Estimated Total
Component                      Cost
[US$ million]
Policy and Institutional Development         7.41
Higher Education Institutions Investment    201.51
Program
Management Information Systems               19.47
Management Capacity Development              6.80
Student Loan Program                         2.58
Project Management and Project Preparation   5.76
Facility
Physical Contingencies                       6.47
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                        250.00
Note: Totals in the table are from the January 1998 SAR.
Policy and Institutional Development was supported by introducing or strengthening key policy and
administrative reforms in five priority areas: [a] allocation of students and finance; [b] administration of
higher education; [c] teaching programs and structures; [d] tuition charges and student loans; and [ee
private higher education. Financial assistance provided under the project was to be in the form of
technical assistance for analytical work, preparation of reforms and monitoring of implementation
progress by outside experts.
Higher Education Institutions Investment Program entailed the construction and renovation of university
facilities to provide the administrative and instructional infrastructure required to realize the potential
efficiency gains of integrating single-purpose institutions into multi-faculty colleges and universities. The
project would provide financial assistance for design services, civil works, purchase of furniture and
equipment, and updating of information technologies. For the newly integrated institutions to be eligible
for this investment they were required to introduce university-level reforms including introduction of a
credit system, imposition of tuition fees, and rationalization of student financial aid.
Management Information Systems were to be supported through the development of new management
information structures, procedures and systems in the integrating higher education institutions [HElsj.
The project would finance expert services for the development of strategy and process redesign;
software development; upgrading of information technology networks; and training support.
Management Capacity Development at both the national and HEI levels would by supported through
increased management capacity in the areas of planning, financial management, information systems,
academic reform, and policy analysis. The project would finance training a variety of training options.
Student Loan Program development would be supported by financing the establishment of a student loan
task force and expert technical assistance.
Project Management and Project Preparation Facility would finance the final architectural designs and
engineering for capital investments for the initial three HEls to participate in the first phase of the project,
and financing for the operation of the Project Management Unit [PMU].
3.4 Revised Components:
In April 1999, the Government proposed the creation of an additional project component (1.13) which
had three distinct parts: (i) detailed analysis of legal and regulatory changes required to facilitate reforms,
(ii) measures designed to build consensus and commitment among stakeholders and, (iii) development
of a communications strategy to ensure broad awareness and understanding amongst the wider public.
The rationale for these additional objectives was that the project design had lacked a focus on how to
implement the reforms.
-3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry [QAE] of this project was assessed by a Bank Panel. Overall, the project was rated
"satisfactory", although the project concept - sector analysis, issue identification, policy design and
prescriptions - was rated as "highly satisfactory". The comments below incorporate the opinions of the
Panel as well as other comments of the ICR mission. This section is organized according to QAE criteria.
Project Concept, Objectives and Approach. As noted above, this project was clearly linked to a key CAS
objective - helping Hungary prepare for accession to the EU - and was identified as a CAS priority in both
the 1995 and 1998 CAS documents. Borrower ownership was high, with reform champions coming from
the iniversities themselves and with strong support from the Ministry of Finance. Important legislative
changes - the 1993 Law on Higher Education, Amendments to that law in 1996, and a 1995
Parliamentary Resolution - reveal a high level of political support.
Project design benefited from extensive analytical work, which provided a solid basis for the
comprehensive diagnosis and rationale provided in Project documents. Project development objectives
were clear but ambitious. As noted by the Panel, they touched "virtually every aspect of higher
education - finance, governance, pedagogy, incentive systems." Comprehensive reform was viewed as
essential by the champions of reform in Hungary, and the rationale for the a systemic reform was
well-argued in the SAR. The Panel agreed that a sector investment loan was the appropriate lending
instrument at the time. However, if this loan were being processed today, it would most likely be
proposed as an APL. The balance between upfront action and conditionality was appropriate.
Technical and Economic Aspects. The project design was technically sound overall.  Experienced
international consultants were contracted to help with project preparation, where necessary, to
compensate for the Bank's limited experience and expertise in higher education reform of this nature.
However, the management capacity component is less developed than other components in terms of its
rationale, specific objectives, and prescriptions for improving management capacity. The novelty - for
Hungary - of preparing professional university managers combined with the lack of a tradition of
investing in the training of public sector staff calls for paying considerably more attention to this
component. The economic analysis was of good quality, examined alternatives, and calculated the
expected rate of return to the capital investment required to integrate HEls.
Environmental Aspects. NA
Social and StakeholderAspects. The HERP supports major changes in higher education policy, finance
and management in Hungary. These changes were initiated within the university community itself and
were widely debated at all levels - university councils [that govem individual universities], university
associations [e.g., the Council of Rectors], and within the executive and legislative branches of
Government. However, there was little outreach during project preparation to opposition political parties
to gauge and encourage their support, and outreach within universities was left to the university rectors;
there was discussion with student leaders. The fact that rectors and other university officials are elected
by faculty, staff, and students means that broad-based support for reform objectives is essential if
changes are to be made at the institutional level. These risks were identified during Project preparation,
but little attention was paid to strategies to address the risks. Strategies to communicate and monitor
stakeholder support are not mentioned in project documents.
Financial management. The HERP supports the development of management information systems
which would establish improved budgeting, accounting and financial control systems at the HIE level
and, thus, permit system-wide monitoring by the Ministry of Education [MOE]. As agreed during
Negotiations, an existing PMU [FEFA] with experience managing the Bank-financed HRDP would be
responsible for day to day financial management. Project documents presumes the cost-recovery plan
to be realistic, but the new Government had announced major changes to the tuition charges policy
even prior to Project effectiveness.
Institutional assessment. As noted in the QAE assessment, Hungary's higher education system is
- 4 -



complex with numerous organizations - including the MOE, the Ministry of Finance [MOF], the Council of
Rectors, the Higher Education and Scientific Council [FTT], the Hungarian Accreditation Council, and the
National Student Association - and numerous stakeholders. Each of these organizations and
stakeholders is affected by the HERP, and for the HERP to be successful and sustainable, their
behaviors and attitudes will need to change. How this is expected to occur doesn't receive much explicit
attention in Project documents. On the other hand, major legal changes that underlie institutional
behavior were adopted prior to Project effectiveness, and the incentives for university integration and
increased university competition are clearly spelled out. Also, during preparation, the FTT developed the
guidelines for the Institutional Development Plan [lDP], a strategic planning document to be prepared by
each HEI wishing to compete for funding under the HEPR. The investment related implementation steps
of the strategic plan were elaborated in a Capital Investment Plan (CIP) developed by the HEls after the
acceptance of the IDP. This document was basically a feasibility study of the IDP. The CIP was
reviewed, commented and approved by the Technical Committee. The members of this Committee
were the staff of the Investment Department of MOE and independent experts. The approved and
accepted CIP became the basis of the financing Agreement between MOE and the HEI. The institutions
could start the investment only after having their financial security through this Agreement.
Implementation arrangements as specified in the SAR are complex and lack clarity with a PMU in the
MOE responsible for policy changes and management development, FEFA responsible for managing the
procurement of civil works, the FTT responsible for approving the IDPs of HEls, and each HEI
responsible for tendering final designs and civil works and for directly supervising construction. While
FEFA had staff with prior Bank procurement experience, no one had the kind of expertise required for
the procurement of the kind of large scale civil works anticipated by the project. At the same time, the
Bank had no prior experience with funding such civil works in Hungary, and the HEIs had no experience
tendering civil works. Implementation arrangements also call for the creation of an Intemational
Advisory Panel [IAP], which appears to have no formal role vis a vis other implementing agencies.
Readiness for implementation. As part of project preparation, a detailed Project Implementation Plan
[PIP] was developed, and a PPF for US$2.8 million was approved in October 1997 to finance project
start-up activities, including architectural designs [$0.00 was disbursed by the June 5, 1998, date of
effectiveness]. To expedite implementation during the first year of the Project, IDPs were prepared for
three HEls - Debrecen University, Kecskem6t College, and Szeged University. Those three IDPs were
expected to be approved in 1998, after which Capital Investment Plans [CIPs] would need to be prepared
and approved, architectural designs would need to commissioned for new civil works, detailed design
work would need to be contracted on the selected architectural design, the construction work would be
need to be tendered, and, finally, the construction would be carried out. Experience to date has shown
that processing the IDP approval takes 18 months, and subsequent steps [preparation of the CIP, CIP
approval, etc.] take approximately 24 months before any significant disbursements could be expected to
occur. The original plan to disburse 20% of the loan proceeds by mid-2000, two years after project
effectiveness was unrealistic.
Risk assessment and sustainability. The Project SAR clearly discusses the substantial risks of the
project, including the risks that HEI faculties may not support the academic changes required to reduce
unit costs, and that students may protest tuition charges, which in 1996 resulted in a rollback of proposed
tuition charges. The potential risk of a change in Government policy on tuition charges was not
considered a major risk. The SAR does not discuss how the sequencing of reforms - e.g., establishing a
student loan system prior to introducing tuition; or ensuring HEI management capacity and information
systems prior to being given financial autonomy - might affect project risks, neither was an explicit exit
strategy discussed, although it is identified as one of the lessons of experience to be leamed from earlier
Bank-financed projects in Hungary.
Key performance indicators were identified, and project conditionalities were clearly specified.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcomne/achievenment of objective:
-5 -



PRI NCI PAL OBJECTIVES   SUB-OBJECTIVES             ACHIEVEMENT           EXPLANATION
1. Increase higher education's  a. Raise enrollment  Enrollment rates have    The SAR estimated a
responsiveness to changing    rates to at least 25% of   risen to almost 30% of   17% enrollment rate in
social and economic needs.   the age group 18-22    the age group..       1995/96. Since FTE
years.                                        enrollments increased
65% between 1995/6
and 2000/1 while the
size of the age group
decreased, the goal has
been met and is liKely to
be sustained.. The
introduction of student
loans should further
increase student
demand
b. Allocate enrollments   Accomplished.        Government funding of
and financial support to                       HEIs is based on
HEIs based on student                          enrollments; HEls now
demand.                                        compete for good
students. Likely to be
sustained.
c. Restructure educational Partly Accomplished.  Credit system
objectives, structure, and                    introduced but most
content so as to respond                       degree programs have
more flexibly to changes in                    not yet been
labor market demands.                         restructured. This
objective is likely to be
attained in the future as
the result of EU
accession.
d. Develop more        Not Accomplished.       While some HEls have
responsive governance,                         created broad-based
advisory, and management                       boards of directors, HEI
functions.                                     management has not
been strengthened, and
intermediary
organizations have been
weakened.
2. Use resources more        a. Provide means and   Partly Accomplished.   Ex-post financing of HEI
efficiently.                 incentives for HEls to                        deficits has been
control expenses.                             eliminated, but HEls
have not been given
needed information
systems and
management expertise.
b. Economize on        Partly Accomplished.    HEI strategic planning
investment and                                 has been adopted; and
development expenditures.                      GOH now uses objective
criteria for making
investment decisions,
but the lack of
transparency makes
sustainability
questionable..
c. Reduce administrative  Ratio of students to  Administrative
expenditures per student. non-teaching staff has    expenditures have
increased to 6:1.      decreased due to
increased enrollments,
to HEI integration and
-6-



not due to improved
management.
d. Reduce teaching costs Total spending per   Teaching costs have
per student; increase  student has decreased    decreased due to
student-staff ratio to 10.5  from 121 % to 70% of per increased
capita GDP. The        student-teacher ratios in
FTE/Teacher ratio has    existing facilities and not
increased to 12.5.     due to technological
improvements in
teaching.
e. Manage expenditures on Not Accomplished.
student services more
efficiently.
3. Mobilize non-state resources a. Mobilize additional    Partly Accomplished. No Private resources have
and create a more equitable    private resources within   national data are  increased in some HEls
system for financing higher  public HEls; increase  available, but some HEIs due to the fact that
education.                 tuition revenue to at least have increased private   enrollments have grown
15% of instructional costs funding both from tuition more rapidly than
of public HEls.        charged to non-state    state-sponsored students.
funded students and from
government and private
sector contracts.
b. Increase the contribution of Not Accomplished.
private higher education as a
share of national higher
education expenditures.
c. Provide selective state   Not Accomplished.  Full tuition subsidies for first
support of students on the                   degree students combined
basis of financial need;                     with non-selective living
allocate no less than 50% of                 allowances to state-supported
subsidy on basis of financial                students result in high
need.                                        inequity.
The Project had as overall objectives to [a] increase responsiveness to social and economic needs, [b]
improve the operating efficiency of the system, [c] mobilize private finance, and [d] improve equity in
higher education finance. Despite the early cancellation of the loan and the very low level of
disbursement attained, significant progress has been made towards attaining each of these objectives.
Both quantitative and qualitative indicators of these objectives were specified in Annex 16 of the SAR.
These indicators were subsequently operationalized, and in September 2000 the GOH presented a full
report to the Bank on monitoring indicators. Information provided in that report is reported below and
supplemented with more recent data when available.
Increase responsiveness to social and economic needs. Tertiary level enrollments have increased
rapidly in Hungary, from 154,553 full time equivalent [FTE] students in 1995/6 to 225,373 FTE in
1999/00 to 255,582 in 2000/1, at the same time that the size of the 18-22 age cohort was shrinking. The
result is an increase in the gross enrollment rate from 18% to about 30% over the same period of time.
This rate exceeds the 25% rate anticipated by the end of the Project. Applicants are permitted to apply
to more than one HEI, and in 1999/00 each applicant submitted an average of 2.3 applications. About
65% of all applicants were admitted to some institution. As part of the objective of increasing flexibility
and choice, the HAC approved 111 new degree programs between 1998 and 2000.
Improve the operating efficiency of the system. While FTE student enrollments increased by 45.8%
between 1995/6 and 1999/0, public spending on higher education increased only 16.4%. While public
spending on higher education has increased slightly as a percent of GDP, from 0.98% in 1995/6 to
1.01% in 1999/0, public spending per pupil has decreased as a percent of per capita GDP, from 70% to
46% in the same time period. Including estimated HEI own-source revenues, the total spending per pupil
-7 -



as a percent of per capita GDP decreased from 121% to 70%. While decreases in faculty pay explain
some of the decline, the ratio of students to teachers also increased, to 12.5 FTE/teacher, larger than the
10.5:1 ratio specified in the Bank's conditionality. The ratio of students to non-teaching HEI staff also
increased to 6:1. HEI integration partly contributes to these changes. Adoption of the credit system,
important for facilitating more flexible academic programs, has now occurred in 37% of public HEIs.
Mobilize private finance. While the Government reversed its policy and abolished student tuition fees for
first degree students, private finance in higher education continues to grow with growth in the number of
students not funded by the state. Of the 90,470 students admitted to first degree programs in 1999, 40%
did not receive state funding. Of those admitted, 15% attended a private HEI; this market share is
probably no larger than it was in 1995, and thus the private HEI share of total higher education spending
has probably not grown. Of the 77,685 students admitted to public HEls, 37% were not funded and, thus,
required to pay fees. Among students admitted to second degree programs, 51% of university graduates
were not funded, and 83% of college graduates were not funded by the state. A government policy to
freeze the nominal amount of the student aid allowance paid to state-funded students, also, has the
effect of increasing their own finance of living expenses.
Improve equity in higher education finance. Public higher education spending is still distributed uneqLually
in Hungary. State-funded students continue to receive living allowances in addition to free instructior,
while other students, including part-time students, pay fees and do not receive living allowances. While
there are no household survey data to permit a precise assessment, equity has probably improved with
the increase in enrollment rates, the freezing of state-paid living allowances, the introduction of student
loans available to all students, and the distribution by local authorities of financial aid to needy students.
However, the distribution of student living allowances is still the responsibility of university student
associations, which continue to distribute them largely on an equal per student basis.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Policy and institutional develo ment. The Project supported numerous policy and administrative reforms.
The GOH was in compliance with all required policy actions as of the last full Supervision Mission in
November 2000; a detailed Annex on the Status of Policy Actions is given in the Aide Memoire of that
Mission. No new policy actions were required between November 2000 and the time of loan
cancellation. In this section the degree of policy and administrative reform is assessed in absolute terms
and relative to the goals of the Project in the following five priority areas: [a] allocation of students and
finance; [b] administration of higher education; [c] teaching programs and structures; [d] tuition charges
and student loans; and [e] private higher education. Significant policy reforms have been adopted in
allocating students and finance, teaching programs and structures, and student loans. Policy reforms
have not advanced on tuition fees and private higher education.
The Project had the objective of changing the allocation of state-funded admissions, in order to provide
greater student choice and to introduce a degree of competition among HEls that would make them rnore
sensitive to student concerns. This policy change has by and large occurred. The GOH sets the number
of state-funded places by field; student funding is awarded on the basis of student performance on
national tests; students can apply to multiple institutions and can choose from among those for which
they are accepted. This policy change is bringing about some of the desired behavioral changes at the
HEI level.
The Project, also, had as an objective changing the norms for financing HEls. Much of this change
occurred prior to Project Effectiveness. The current funding formula, as specified in Decree 120 issued
in 2000 is transparent and determines an HEI's state funding on the basis of the number of students by
four levels of program cost.
The Project sought to improve the administration of higher education by strengthening intermediary
bodies such as FTT and HAC and by granting HEls increased financial autonomy. While HAC has
solidified its role in accreditation, the FTT's role has been weakened in several areas, inter alia, with the
evaluation of IDPs being moved from the FTT to the MOE. The financial autonomy of HEls has not
- 8 -



been legally changed, but increased private financing has give some institutions de facto increased
financial autonomy.
The Project sought to make several changes in teaching programs and structures with the objective of
increasing flexibility, providing compatibility with the EU, and ensuring quality. The MOE issued a
decree in 2000 establishing a national student credit system, and several HEIs have taken the initiative
to implement the system. Full implementation will require establishing the minimum credit requirements
for about 500 separate degree programs. The Project also supported strengthening quality control in the
accreditation of degree programs through the support of HAC, which has developed a solid reputation
and is now an active member of the intemational and European networks which harmonize academic
qualifications to ensure student and worker mobility within Europe. It has taken the lead in establishing a
Central Eastern European Network.
The Project supported improving equity in higher education finance through increasing tuition charges,
shifting the criteria for distributing state subsidies from merit to financial need, and providing financial aid
to poor students to ensure they are not excluded from access to HEls. Decree 144, issued in 2000,
permits HEIs to charge fees for all students except state-funded, full-time students in first degree courses
and students in teacher training courses. The HEIs themselves determine fees and retain fee revenues.
These policy changes facilitate greater private finance of higher education, but they do not improve
equity, and indeed they worsen equity relatively to the earlier decree that was voided. The criteria for
distributing state subsidies - either state funding, or student allowances and other subsidies - has not
been changed to financial need. However, a student loan program has been established that ensures all
students have access to limited amounts of financial aid, and a state-funded program administered by
local authorities has been created to provide financial support to needy students.
The Project sought to strengthen incentives for private higher education by ensuring transparent and fair
treatment in accreditation, by deregulating private HEIs, and by reducing direct public finance of private
HEls while providing student access to financial assistance. The creation and strengthening of
accreditation processes, the provision of student loans to students of private HEls, and the reduction in
the percentage of private HEI students who are state funded have all occurred. However, the elimination
of student fees for first degree students serves to increase the relative price of private higher education
for students eligible for state funding.
H: iher education institutions investment program. The HEI investment program had dual objectives - [a]
providing an incentive for and facilitating the integration of small HEI's into multi-faculty colleges and
universities; and [b] ensuring that the integrated HEI's have the administrative and instructional
infrastructure required to realize the potential efficiency gains of integration. The creation of
medium-term IDPs was critical to the smooth functioning of the investment program. The achievement
of this project component is mixed with actual renovation and new construction finally beginning in three
integrated HEIs - Szeged, Sapientia, and Miskolc Universities--in 2001. Thus, the infrastructure objective
of this component can be viewed as partially successful but highly delayed and largely carried out
without Bank financing.
The other goals of this component have been met. First, the Government decided to expedite
integration by mandating the merger of individual HEls. The Law on Higher Education Integration was
approved by the Hungarian Parliament on June 1, 1999, creating 30 integrated HEis accounting for 90%
of the student population by January 1, 2000. While this action was one of the factors delaying this
component, it may very well expedite implementation in the later stages of the Project. Second, the
MOE decided to require all HEIs to in the future prepare IDPs and CIPs to be eligible for investment
support from the Government's own budget. De facto, the scope of the Project was expanded
considerably.
Management information systems. Improved management information systems are required to support
good sector and HEI decision-making, to realize the potential economies of integration, and to allow
greater HEI financial autonomy. There have been project outputs in form of hardware procurement and
there are several ongoing software development projects for the Financial Management and Student
-9-



Registry Systems. However, up to the time of loan closing, there was no real outcome for this
component, a fact which may be partially ascribed to continuous changes in the project manager for the
component.
Management capacity development. The lack of professional management in Hungarian universities
poses a risk for realizing the potential gains of integration. However, the only real output from this
component has been the audit of training and development needs in HEls and the preparation of a
detailed strategy to address those needs which has not been implemented.
Student loan procoram. Implementation of a student loan program is essential for ensuring that
financially-needy students have access to higher education, for further stimulating growth of private
higher education, and for raising the political feasibility of introducing fees for first-degree students. The
Student Loan Center was officially established in April 2001, and all higher education students enrolling
in Fall 2001 are eligible to apply for loans. Initially, the maximum monthly loan is equal to about half a
student's monthly living costs. Establishing the loan program has been a high GOH priority, and it has
been accomplished relatively quickly, despite a number of bureaucratic and legal obstacles, including the
need to amend several existing budget and tax laws, since collection will be income contingent and tied
to the income tax collection. Unfortunately, the design of the loan program, as modified subsequent to
the ICR mission, will require significant, continuing GOH subsidies that may lead to restricting future
access to the program. It is important to note that in making these modifications, the GOH did not follow
the advice of its international consultants, and as a consequence the consultant team of the student loan
program resigned their positions.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The net institutional development impact of the Project has been quite substantial, but there have been
missed opportunities for having a still larger impact. The positive impacts include [a] the establishment
of integrated universities; [b] the creation of a new, student loan program; [c] the strengthening of quality
mechanisms through the Hungarian Accreditation Council; [d] creation of a national credit system; [el
creation of a culture of strategic planning; [f] application of the rigorous investment evaluation criteria of
the Project to all HIE investments [g] creation of a new HIE financing mechanism and a new student
admission system that encourage competition. The missed opportunities include [a] failure to strengthen
HIE management to make integration effective; [b] weakening of the Higher Education Council [FTT]; [c]
failure to develop an adequate information base for decision making; and [d] failure to create and sustain
an effective project management unit.
The progress made in establishing integrated universities, albeit by fiat rather than through volition, far
exceeds the expectations of the Project. Indeed, there is no assurance that voluntary integration would
in fact have worked; one of the three original candidates for voluntary integration discussed in the SAR
subsequently dissolved. However, for integration to yield demonstrable efficiencies requires effective
HIE management with access to timely and reliable data. The lack of progress in developing HIE
management capacity and in installing new information systems is difficult to understand given [a] that
the benefits of integration will not be realized in the absence of this institutional development; [b] that the
MOE has shown it clearly has the capacity to carry out institutional development activities, such as
creation of the student loan body, which are far more complex to design and implement; and [c] that at
least in the case of management capacity development the MOE went through the entire procurement
process, including selection of the winning firm, before deciding not to proceed.
The creation of a student loan program, within a relatively short period of time, provides Hungary with a
potentially important institution for the support of further institutional and policy change in higher
- 10-



education and demonstrates what the MOE and GOH can do when they are strongly committed. While
the program design is flawed, with interest rate subsidies requiring significant, continuing GOH support,
the program is likely to be sustained in the short-run and could easily be modified in the future to
improve equity and access to higher education. The Project has contributed to the strengthening of
HAC, which is now itself fully integrated into the European community of accreditation agencies and
which has taken the lead in harmonizing accreditation with Hungary's immediate neighbors. The creation
of a national credit system is irreversible, in part because of the need for harmonization with the
countries of the EU. A great deal of work remains to be done to make this system work in all HEls.
One of the unexpected benefits of the Project is the effect that the process of creating the IDP and CIP
has had on participating HEI administrators and faculty. Participating in the process has brought about a
change in the way HEI staff think about planning and given them an understanding and appreciation of
the need for strategic planning. Almost every university staff member met by the ICR mission
commented on the value of the process and of the important contribution of Bank staff and consultants in
advising the development of the IDP and CIP process during Project preparation. The fact the MOE has
now required all HEIs to follow this process gives confidence that this will not die with project
cancellation. Experience with the IDP evaluation process had, also, led to the adoption of similar
procedures for the funding of scientific research.
Finally, as predicted in the SAR, the change in student admission policies and in HEI financing norms
has created new incentives for institutions to compete for the best students, who carry with them
additional state funding. And this is, also, affecting HEI decisions about which courses to offer, where to
increase or reduce faculty staffing, etc. In short, new incentives are helping bring about behavioral
changes that will improve the quality and relevance of Hungarian higher education.
3. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors otutside the control of government or implementing agency:
At the time of Project Preparation, Hungary had just experienced a serious financial crisis, had a poor
credit rating, and had just cut HEI salary budgets by 20%. HEI authorities reached an agreement with
the MOF to undertake a higher education reform in lieu of further budget cuts, leading to the Bank
identifying a possible project in February 1996. Subsequent to 1996, economic growth resumed,
government revenues increased, and Hungary's credit rating improved considerably. By 2000 Hungary
had every expectation to enter the EU in 2004; this rapidly approaching date emphasized the importance
of the HERP for ensuring harmonization of higher education policies and practices with the EU.
The Govemment that participated in preparing the Project and taking it through Board Approval lost a
mid-1998 election to an opposition party, which had included in its political platform the abolition of the
student fees which had been adopted by the Government. The new Government took office less than a
month after the June 5, 1998, date of Project Effectiveness.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to government control:
The GOH adopted policy, administrative and personnel changes which delayed project implementation,
especially the HEI investment program. The MOE proposed a new law to mandate the integration of
HEls and elected to defer approval of HEI investments until that law was approved by Parliament [June
1, 1999] . The MOE then decided that all integrated HEls should follow the IDP process for any future
capital spending and that the Manual defining the IDP process should be revised. After these two
actions, the MOE began approving IDPs, and by October 1999 identified three institutions which would
participate in the first phase of the investments - Szeged, Miskolc, and Sapientia. Nyiregyhaza and
Debrecen were approved by December 1999. It was only after the signature of the financing contract
with the MOE, that these five HEIs were able to start detailed implementation work.
There was instability in project administration and personnel. Administratively, the MOE decided to
move the approval IDPs from the FTT to the office of the Deputy State Secretary in the MOE, even
though the FTT had already developed evaluation expertise. It, also, decided to move the locus of the
PMU to the Ministry. The director of the PMU was changed twice prior to the move to the Ministry, and
- 11 -



once in the Ministry lines of responsibility were no longer transparent.
In April 2001, the GOH requested cancellation of the HERP loan. Three explanations from GOH officials
were stated to the ICR mission for this request. First, Hungary could borrow more flexibly and no more
expensively from the private market than it could from the Bank; the payment of commitment fees for
almost two years with very little disbursement was mentioned as a concern. Second, the time required to
obtain Bank clearances was excessively long and put at risk showing significant progress in constructing
civil works prior to the next election. Third, being a Bank borrower was not viewed as being consistent
with joining the EU. Another reason may, also, be relevant: the 1997/1998 introduction of the Treasury
system means that from the MOE's perspective there was no additionality from Bank lending; the Budget
Law committed funds to the HERP without stating their source of finance.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implementing agency control:
Originally, FEFA was to have responsibility for procuring civil works, since it already had experience with
Bank procurement procedures for HEI investments in the PSRD. The PMU never issued a contract with
FEFA and, also, did not employ staff with adequate procurement experience, despite Bank
recommendations.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated to be US$250 million equivalent, out of which US$150 million
equivalent was to be IBRD-funded [60 percent] and the balance, US$100 million equivalent,
GOH-funded [40 percent]. At the time of the ICR mission, Bank disbursements amounted to US$1.5
million equivalent, 1 percent of the total Loan. In April 2001, the GOH requested immediate cancellation
of the undisbursed amount of the Loan.
Disbursements have been extremely low ever since Project Effectiveness. In the first eighteen months
of the Project this was largely attributable to changes in Govemment policy, Project management and
PMU personnel. In the last year of the Project disbursements were lower than expected in part because
the time required to complete all the steps from completing the IDP through actual construction of civil
works was seriously underestimated in Project documents, and in part because the MOE did not carry
through with certain procurement procedures. The lack of personnel with adequate experience in
procurement in the PMU contributed to delays in obtaining Bank approvals throughout the life of the
Project.
As of the time of the writing of this report, the following amounts by category of expenditure were not
utilized against the Loan of DEM 263.6 million US$150 million equivalent: [i] DEM 173.4 million
US$98.7 million for civil works; [ii] DEM 50.8 million US$28.9 million for consultants' services, training
and fellowships; [iii] DEM 23.0 million US$13.1 million for goods; [iv] DEM 4.2 million US$2.4 million for
incremental operating costs; [v] DEM 4.9 million US$2.8 million for refunding of Project Preparation
Advance; and [vi] DEM 7.3 million US$4.1 million unallocated.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
GOH Commitment. As noted in supervision reports, GOH commitment to the overall goals of the HEPR
has been consistently strong. After taking office in July 1998, the GOH confirmed its commitment to the
Project during the October supervision mission and followed up with a revised Letter of Sector Policy
Development signed by the MOE and MOF. These verbal commitments have been followed up by
significant actions - decrees, laws, and amendments - among others, to integrate HEls, to establish a
credit system, to change HEI financing norms, and to establish a student loan system. MOE officials
also informed the ICR mission that a Parliamentary expression of support for the objectives of the HEPR
would be forthcoming in the near future to communicate the continued commitment of the Government
despite the loan cancellation. Government commitment is only likely to be strengthened as it moves
towards joining the EU and all that implies for harmonization of policies and ensuring that Hungarians are
as highly skilled as others in the EU.
- 12 -



GOH commitment is not uniformly strong for all objectives and components of the Project. In particular,
it has not shown much support for strengthening either university management or intermediate,
nongovernmental bodies like the FTT. However, the risk is not that university management will fail to
improve but, rather, that some universities will advance much more quickly than others, and the rate of
change of improvement will be lower than would be the case with strong GOH support. Those who have
participated in the IDP process understand the need for strong management capacity and for better
information systems; thus, in the absence of strong GOH support, improvements in this area are likely to
come from the bottom up rather than the top down. Increasing interaction with other European
universities will, also, help bring about improvements.
Capacity and Finance. The 2001-2 Budget Law provides adequate financing for continued
implementation of Project activities. However, beyond 2002 it is difficult to predict whether the adequate
budget financing will continue to be made available, especially given the pending national elections,. As
noted elsewhere, the Borrower significantly altered the design of the student loan program subsequent to
the ICR mission. These changes have the potential to significantly increase the cost of the program to
the GOH and, in the medium term, threaten the sustainability of this program as well as the capacity of
the GOH to continue financing other project activities. The MOE clearly has the capacity to continue
implementing the project, although the Hungarian procurement procedures are no easier than the Bank's,
and continued failure to hire staff well-trained in procurement may prevent a speed up in HEI
investments.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Govemment's strategy for continuing Project activities is to continue supporting semi-independent
agencies like HAC and the new institutional arrangements for the Student Loan scheme, while moving
responsibility for other activities to departments within the MOE. One could argue this strategy has
already been carried out - when the PMU was moved to the MOE, key functions were moved elsewhere
in the Ministry, and the PMU no longer operated like a traditional project implementation unit. The main
risk will be for those activities where there is no existing MOE capacity, where consultants have provided
the expertise to the project, and where MOE commitment is lukewarm - management capacity
development and information systems. MOE capacity in these areas may not be needed, if the GOH is
willing to provide financing to the HEIs to carry out these activities on their own.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Extensive comments on Quality at Entry are given in Section 3.5. The major points are summarized
here. Overall, Bank performance on project preparation was marginally satisfactory. Based on
comments made by diverse stakeholders to the ICR mission, it is clear that the analysis, technical
assistance and knowledge of international best practice transmitted by the Bank to the clients during the
lending phase had very high value added during the lending phase itself and continue to have important
ripple effects both inside and outside the sector. This assistance covered several areas - accreditation,
higher education finance, student loans, HEI strategic planning, evaluation of institutional development
proposals, etc.
On the other hand, project preparation could have been even more productive had it included in the
Bank team expertise on institutional and political analysis. Having such expertise might have prevented
the underestimation of the political risks associated with recommendations to increase tuition charges
and might have resulted in better sequencing of the project, put more emphasis and detailed preparation
work on developing management capacity and information systems, and led to different economic and
risks assessments. Also, given the lack of Bank experience in financing large scale civil works in
Hungary, additional expertise on this topic during the lending phase might have resulted in a more
accurate estimation of the time to carry out civil works, which would certainly have changed the
disbursement schedule and might, also, have changed the choice of lending instrument.
- 13 -



As noted earlier, the Project proposal enjoyed very strong support and commitment from the
Government and from reform-minded higher education leaders. The Bank's support for the Government
on this and other reform proposals may have caused unease among the political opposition and
contributed to the Government demanding the dismissal of the PMU manager [which for legal reasons
did not occur until November 1999] and requesting that other changes be made in the management of
the Project. These changes were probably inevitable, but better communication with the political
opposition prior to the election might have made the changes less disruptive.
Project preparation was led by a short-term consultant whose 190 day consulting limit expired during
negotiations, leading to a change of task manager during negotiations. This does not seem to have
affected negotiations and Board presentation and approval, but the Hungarian authorities who
participated in the negotiations all found this to be a peculiar action.
7.2 Supervision:
The Supervision phase of the Project started off with changes in task manager and sector manager, in
the locus of supervision responsibility [Budapest instead of Washington], and in the regional procurement
adviser. These changes were handled well, with continuity in the team despite the change of task
manager, and moving the locus of supervision activities meant that the Bank monitored and provided
project management assistance, especially concerning procurement issues, on an almost daily basis.
After the new Government took office, the Bank requested an immediate meeting to discuss the Project,
and the new Government agreed to that request once it had appointed new staff and familiarized itself
with the Project. The first Supervision mission was held in October 1998. Once Bank Supervision
activities were initiated, they were intense, with six partial or full supervision missions between October
1998 and November 2000 and almost weekly meetings between the task manager and the Govemment
counterpart.
At the time of the change of Govemment, there was a great deal of concern in the Bank about the
commitment of the new Government to make the agreed-upon policy reforms. Within the Bank there
was debate as to whether the project should be cancelled if the Govemment followed through on its
change in tuition policy. The Aide Memoire of the first Supervision report reflects these concerns. At the
time of the first Supervision, implementation arrangements for the Project were still in a state of flux.
Subsequent to that mission a new PMU coordinator was selected, and progress towards implementation
was made. By the time of the next Supervision mission, in April 2000, the PMU coordinator had
resigned, implementation arrangements were again in a state of flux, and the lack of procurement
expertise in the PMU was becoming a serious constraint. The Supervision team strongly recommended
improvements in Project management, and especially procurement. The same recommendations were
repeated in the October 2000 Supervision mission, when, given the poor disbursement performance, the
Bank requested proposals from the Ministry to restructure the project, which were never received. By
April 2001, the Govemment made the decision on loan cancellation.
Overall, Bank performance on Project Supervision was satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall performance, including preparation and supervision, on the policy and institutional reforms was
clearly satisfactory. Overall Bank performance, including preparation and supervision, on the HEI
investment component was marginally satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Mission aide-memoires, from preparation to appraisal, commended the high quality of preparatory work
done by GOH in designing and carrying out policy, legal, and institutional reforms. Substantial work was
also done to develop the IDP and to prepare IDPs for selected universities. A detailed Project
Implementation Plan was also prepared. However, GOH is jointly responsible with the Bank for
- 14 -



underestimating the time and risks of designing, tendering, and constructing civil works.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is highly uneven. Aside from the reversal on tuition policy,
during the lifetime of the project its performance on policy reforms was highly satisfactory with very few
delays in meeting agreed-upon deadlines. Its performance on institutional reforms and institutional
development was mixed. The Government quickly followed through on the creation of a student loan
program, and the integration of HEls. However, it did not carry through on plans to strengthen
management capacity, even though procurement was handled satisfactorily. After the ICR mission,
substantial, and from the point of view of the Bank, disappointing modifications were made to the design
of the student loan program. The Govemments' changes in implementation arrangements - in the
location and structure of the PMU and in the role of intermediary organizations - adversely affected
implementation. After the PMU was relocated to the MOE, there was no longer a single point of contact
conceming Project implementation, and project decision-making was no longer transparent. Moving IDP
approvals from the FTT to the MOE meant dropping a transparent evaluation process for one that was
not. Similarly, FEFA, which had managed HEI investments in the HRDP [which received a highly
satisfactory Borrower implementation assessment in the ICR] was never contracted to manage this
component of the HERP. The Government realized that there were implementation issues and therefore
a Government Commissioner was appointed to accelerate the implementation of the investment
component. Although this action provided the Bank with a focal point for the investment component, it
was not always effective as there continued to be issues relating to the MOE's interpretation of Bank's
procurement regulations. Furthermore, the MOE insistence on channeling all HEI communications with
the Bank through the MOE, also, caused unnecessary delays.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
In supervision mission Aide Memoires during the period March 1998-April 2001, the Bank noted uneven
PMU performance. In spite of having dedicated and committed staff, due to reasons beyond its control,
the overall efficiency of the PMU did not reach the expected performance level. Frequent changes in
director, in location, and in mission adversely affected PMU performance. Bank Supervision missions
consistently expressed concern about the lack of effective project management, especially in
procurement and in the management of the MIS component. However, the procurement of consultant
services which was undertaken by the PMU was satisfactory, in part due to continuous technical support
from the Bank's procurement specialists. Units dealing with non-investment components within the PMU
were highly effective.
Progress reports and audit reports were submitted on a timely basis and were adequate.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Based on the above evidence, the Borrower's overall performance is marginally satisfactory. This
overall assessment reflects areas of both satisfactorv and unsatisfactorv Derformance. The preparation
and implementation of certain policy reforms and institutional reforms was highly satisfactory with the
Borrower attaining outcomes well beyond those anticipated by the Project. The preparation and
implementation of the HEI investment component and the implementation of the MIS component were
unsatisfactory mainly due to failure to adequately staff and manage this component. Borrower
performance was also unsatisfactory in terms of strengthening management capacity development.
Borrower performance in creating a student loan program was especially disappointing with an intense
development effort resulting in a world class design about to be implemented as of the time of the ICR
mission; modifications made by the Borrower subsequent to the mission radically altered the design and
increased the potential cost of the program to the GOH.
8. Lessons Learned
- 15-



During preparation to appraisal stage:
1.    In complex project designs, think through clearly priorities and the sequencing of actions and
build in implementation flexibility - some project components will always advance quickly and others will
lag.
2.    When policy reforms are subject to reversals and when elections will be held in the near future,
hold discussions with leaders of the sector in opposition political parties.
3.    Include political experts on preparation teams to provide guidance on minimizing the risk of
policy reversal and to advise on how best to appeal to the interests of stakeholders and political actors
who may oppose or potentially oppose reforms.
4.    When a project expects to significantly change behaviors and the rules of the game, include
institutional experts on preparation teams to advise on strategies and priorities for doing so.
5.    When planning large scale civil works in a country where the Bank lacks much experience,
engage local experts to lay out all the steps, estimate the time involved with each, and advise on how to
reduce time.
6. For complicated procurement, involve a regional procurement adviser in an early mission to
participate in the solution of technical issues and to emphasize to the Govemment the importance of
procurement expertise.
During project implementation:
1.    Continuous follow-up by the Bank and discussion with the Govemment of the policy reforms
supported by the Project strongly contribute to success, especially when Govemments change.
2.    Having Bank procurement expertise in a regional Bank office facilitates project procurement but
by no means guarantees success.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BORROWER'S COMMENTS
ON THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREPARED BY THE WORLD BANK
on
LOAN No. HU-4287
- 16 -



to the
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
October 30, 2001
- 17-



Comments on the ICR
Appreciating the work invested by the Bank in the compilation of the ICR the Ministry of Education makes
the following comments.
Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
Original Objective (according to SAR):
The project supports the Govemment's comprehensive reform program for higher education. The main
obiectives of the project are to develop a system of higher education that: (a) responds to the nation's
changed and changing social and economic needs; (b) operates efficiently; and (c) mobilizes greater
private finance and distributes the costs of education more equitably. More specifically, objective of the
project is to enroll at least 25% of the eligible age population in higher education programs relevant tD a
market economy at substantially reduced public cost per student.
In other words, the three core objectives of the project were the following: (i) improved efficiency
(external and internal, to be achieved primarily through incentives offered to the universities); (ii)
improved quality (requires additional funding and is to be achieved inter alia by the introduction of
tuition fees); (iii) improved access (to be achieved in part through the introduction of a student loan
scheme).
Revised Objective:
The objectives of the program were approved both by the previous and the new government, elected in
1998. However the original program design needed a revision after the new government came into
office. The main reason for this was that the original program design did not pay enough attention to the
proper sequencing of the policy measures to be taken, neither in terms of the desirable policy outcomes
to be achieved, nor in terms of political, administrative and technical feasibility and implementation. The
most obvious example for this, is that the introduction of tuition fees before implementing a widely
accessible and financially viable student loan component may seriously harm access and equity (which
was one of the main objective of the program), whereas the reversed sequence of these policies surely
lead to the desired policy outcomes both in terms of equity, access and in terms of bringing in huge
amount of private money to the higher education sector and in this way improving the financial
autonomy, efficiency and quality (i.e. tuition fees cannot be high enough for many obvious reasons
witnout a viable student loan scheme).
Quality at EntrylProgram Design
According to the above the original objectives of the program were not changed, as it was reinforced by
the supervision mission in April 2000, which clearly stated that "the objectives of the project remain
substantially unaltered".
However the original design of the program had to be changed in order to allow for the program to make
sense, to make the program feasible and possible to implement. Several changes in the program design
were inevitable and unavoidable, due to the poor technical quality of the program preparation; this
pertains not to the concept but to the implementation planning and the lack of connection between the
concept and the implementation. Some of the main problems with the program design:
1.    The sequencing of the different policies to be introduced in order to be able to remain in
compliance with the original policy objectives.
2.    Most of the 96 policy objectives of the Loan agreement and the Policy Matrix had to be
implemented at government or ministry level whereas it was basically impossible to establish direct
- 18-



link or relationship among the policy objectives and the components' and sub-components'
tasks and activities. (Therefore it is not surprising - and actually it was predictable and predicted - that
finally the policy objectives and the program were implemented without disbursing too much resources
out of the Loan.) In order to mitigate this problem a creation of a new sub-component was necessary to
assist in implementing many of the detailed government level policy objectives. (It is recognized by the
Bank: "Units dealing with policy components within the PMU were highly effective".)
3.    The newly elected parliament established the new Hungarian higher education institutional
network, which changed the originally planned voluntary mergers of the institutions. This policy of
abandoning the voluntary mergers of institutions was supported by ample of evidences and experiences
originated during the previous ten years of higher education reforms in Hungary. Moreover most of these
evidences originated in a former World Bank program (Human Resources Development Project), which
deemed to be unsuccessful due to exactly the same failed assumptions about and approaches to the
voluntary mergers of institutions.
4.    The original deadlines of implementation of the policy objectives had to be thoroughly reworked
in technical terms, because the official program documentation contained as appendices 4-5 different
version of policy matrices, conditions for project phases etc.. All of the matrices referred to the same
set of policy objectives, but the same policy objectives had different deadlines for implementation
depending on which document was examined. Moreover the objectives were planned to be fulfilled over
a 5-year period but approx. 30 out of the 96 objectives were outdated when signing the Loan
Agreement in March, 1998 (many of them had an implementation deadline in 1997), and approx. another
20 of these objectives were outdated by 22 June, 1998 when the Loan Agreement came into effect, and
approx. an additional 10 of these objective were outdated by the time the actual program implementation
could start in September, 1998. Therefore it is not surprising that a fundamental revision was absolutely
unavoidable and inevitable in order to make the effective implementation and monitoring of the program
possible both for the Bank and the government. Due to the poor technical quality of the program
preparation, during the first year of the program implementation the MoE and the Bank's (in both cases
new) staff had to work very hard to create the conditions for implementing and monitoring the program.
That is the MoE and the WB local office had to carry out almost a complete pre-investment and program
preparatory process, which caused inevitably a year delay in starting with the implementation.
5.    Alongside these issues of design, the wide ranging and extremely complex "christmas-tree like"
design of the project raises questions whether it could have been implemented in accordance with the
original documents.
6.    More than 80% of the loan was devoted to the institutional capital investment program. Except
for the Public Procurement Law the Bank and the Borrower failed to harmonize its procurement
procedures with the relevant Hungarian legislation in force during the preparation stage of the
project. Although this harmonization process would have taken considerable amount of work and time
from both the Bank's and the Borrower's part, these efforts would have been recovered during the
implementation of the project.
7.    A related problem pertaining also to the design of the project concerns the institutional
investment program. The time elapsed between preparing an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) and
the actual start of an investment procedure based on a CIP prepared (that has to be approved by the
Hungarian authorities and by the Bank and that is based on the IDP also previously to be approved by
the Hungarian authorities and by the Bank) is long. This did not correspond neither to the urgent needs
of the HEls, nor to the schedule stated in the original SAR, nor to the harmonization and coordination
among the investment projects and the other components; furthermore, as it takes about two years to
start the actual investments, the disbursement from the loan is to stay low for the first three to four years
of implementation resulting in a considerable commitment fee. This also was a serious failure in the
program design, because taken together the time needed for the preparation and evaluation of the IDPs
and CIPs and the time needed for carrying out the formal architectural and civil works tenders according
to the Bank's procurement rules, it should have been foreseen that it would be a miracle if any out of
- 19-



these investment money could be disbursed by the official closing date of the program. That is it was
pre-programmed to the program, that the borrower should pay a relatively large percentage of
commitment fees after those 80% of the total budget, which practically will not be accessible during
the first five years of the program. Nevertheless the PMU and the MoE carried out an almost impossible
job by accelerating the IDP - CIP process and by carrying out several architectural design and civil work
tenders, by which - due to the PMU's efforts - this preprogrammed failure in implementation was a bit
diminished. It seems to us unfair to transfer the failure from those who prepared the program to those
who did their best to implement it.
8.    There was also a failure to harmonize the Bank's policy and the reality of the Hungarian higher
education. Meeting the Bank's rule that no contract can be signed with a public employee (or at least
no expert fee can be disbursed to public employees) meant a real challenge. Those local experts who
do know the Hungarian higher education and whose participation in the Project implementation is
viable for the Project to succeed, could not be selected to participate as consultants because practically
all of them are working at universities as public employees. An initiative was started by the PMU to
resolve this procurement policy problem, however the result achieved did not provide for the use of more
numerous local HE experts.
Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
Ou tcomelachievement of objective:
In !;pite of the early closing of the project serious achievements can be listed completely in line of the
objectives. One of the most important policy achievement was in 1999: the new HEI network was
established, providing for the new institutional structure of HEIs capable to benefit from economies of
scale and to follow the needs of the country. After the second amendment to the Higher Education Act in
2000 eleven govemment decrees were also passed among them: on the introduction of the credit
system, on the nation wide entrance examination, on the efficiency oriented normative financing of HEls,
the principles and tasks to be fulfilled in the interest of the implementation of the student loan system. All
of ihese decrees were important policy tools in fulfilling longer term objectives.
The project made a very positive impact on the HEls by the introduction of the "IDP-system" since it
introduced the strategic way of thinking at the institutional level. The new culture has already its roots in
the HE system.
OLtput by components:
Component 1: Policy and Institutional Development
Sib-comDonent 1.10: Hungarian Accreditation Committee (HAC)
The main output at the HAC was the completion of its external evaluation by an independent
international expert team. The findings of this unique work can be used to place the HAC on the map of
the similar organizations worldwide and also can be utilized as a main input for the quality assurance of
the HAC. These findings shall also be incorporated into the accreditation process of the HAC thus
improving its transparency that was one of the main goals in involving the HAC in the HERP.
SLo-component 1.11: National Credit Council (NCC)
The contract for the Audit of HEls' Registration Processes for the Initiation of the Credit System was
signed in 2000 and the final report was delivered early 2001. The findings and the interpretation of the
audit is being used as a tool during the introduction of the credit system which is compatible with the
Ei opean Credit Transfer System.
- 20 -



Sub-component 1.13: Governmental higher education policy. integration, communication
The creation of the new HEI network was one of the main pre-conditions of the higher education reform
in Hungary was completed in 1999 with the almost univocal decision of the Parliament, giving the year
2000 as a transitional period to the institutions.
Three important pillars are in governmental higher education policy.
One of these is the reform of the admission procedure. The legal framework of this was provided by the
amendment of the Higher Education Act in 2000, giving way to competition among students, HEIs and
degree programs. The newly introduced system - as a compromise in order to secure a stable but
changing higher education system - allows for a gradual shift of state financed student places between
HEls.
The second pillar is the reform of the academic structure of the higher education in Hungary. In order to
allow for a greater mobility within the HE system the Governmental Decree No. 200/2000 on Introduction
of the Credit System was passed in November 2000. During the preparation of the decree the European
Credit Transfer System and its practice was closely monitored in order to avoid the creation of an
incompatible credit system. This decree - actually a modification of the 1997 decree on credit system -
orders the HEIs to announce its courses based on a credit system from September 2002. A
Recommendation to the decree was accepted by the National Credit Council to give a more detailed aid
to the institutions in forming their credit based curriculum system.
At present about 40% of all students at Hungarian higher education institutions are studying in
credit-based curricula.
The third pillar is the reform of the higher education financing system. As a first step in June 2000 the
Governmental Decree No. 120/200 on the Normative Financing of the HEls was approved. Although this
decree needs to be modified later to solve the financing problems of HEIs it did give the possibility to HE
policy makers to begin to improve the situation of the HE sector.
The mentioned legal regulations constitute only the basis for the further development of the Hungarian
higher education.
Preparation, submission, evaluation and approval of IDPs
IDPs are considered by the MoE as the main strategic documents of institutional development in each
HEI. By evaluating the responses of the HEls it is clear that the new culture has been stabilized and
accepted as the way of distributing development resources.
The MOE has decided that in the future the preparation of the IDPs should be a preliminary requirement
for access to any state funds for development. This means that the MOE will provide all development
and investment resources from the Government's budget for HEIs on the basis strategic development
plans of the approved IDPs. Based on the IDP, the MOE enters into a four-year agreement with the
institution.
The new IDP Handbook completed by the MOE (in February 2000) gives methodological help to
prepare IDPs, describes the expectations of the MOE concerning the formal structure and contents of the
IDPs, and provides information on the considerations about the aspects of IDP evaluation. The new
handbook deviates on many points from the original one which was based on the SAR.
As part of the Higher Education Development Program, the World Bank basic procedure of preparing
IDPs has so far proved successful, and, according to the MOE's decision, this system and procedure will
be maintained by the MOE, by providing continuous opportunity for HEls to prepare and submit their
IDPs in the future as well.
- 21 -



Component 2: Higher Education Institutions' Investment
The HEls' investment component is proceedinq at an acceptable pace after a lonq delay due to
the problem with harmonizina the Bank procurement Procedures with the Hungarian legislation
especially in the case of desiqn tenders.
a) Active projects
12 institutional Capital Investment Plans (ClPs) have been submitted up to now, out of these 9
institutions have signed agreements with the MOE for the total amount of funding HUF 42,669
million. The CIPs of UNIVERSITY OF SZEGED, UNIVERSITY OF DEBRECEN, SAPIENTIA
RELIGIOUS COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY OF MISKOLC, COLLEGE OF NYiREGYHAZA, COLLEGE
OF KECSKEMET, UNIVERSITY OF KAPOSVAR, BUDAPEST POLYTECHNIC and SEMMELWEIS
UNIVERSITY have been approved. The CIP of the ST. STEPHEN UNIVERSITY, GODOLLO is
being revised according to the Technical Committee's comments, and the plans of SAMUEL
TESSEDIK COLLEGE, and SZEGED THEOLOGICAL COLLEGE are being evaluated by the TC's
ey perts.
b) Summary of activities for the modules/buildings
Within 9 institutional projects, the following activities are underway:
-   11 buildings to be constructed within the projects of the UNIVERSITY OF SZEGED,
UNIVERSITY OF DEBRECEN, COLLEGE OF KECSKEMET, COLLEGE OF NYiREGYHAZA,
BUDAPEST POLYTECHNIC AND UNIVERSITY OF KAPOSVAR with a total floor space of
95,750 sqm. Foundation stones laid: Sarospatak Library (within the Miskolc Project), Social and
Health Sciences Education Center and Landscape and Rural Development Center in Debrecen,
and Education Buildings in Nyiregyhaza
-   Complete reconstruction and refurbishment of 4 buildings: SAPIENTIA COLLEGE; student
dormitories and center for information technology in KECSKEMET; and THE health building of
the SEMMELWEIS UNIVERSITY IN Vas u. Budapest. The construction sites have been handed
over in Piarista koz Budapest and student dormitory building in Kecskemet.
-   For the UNIVERSITY OF MISKOLC the whole campus is gaining space through addition of
storeys/extensions, reconstruction, and solutions for easier access for the handicapped are
being implemented. Refurbished lecture halls and seminar rooms were opened on September
8, 2001.
-   Partial delivery and installations within their IT networking program took place in
NYiREGYHAZA on August 9, 2001 and in MISKOLC on September 8, 2001.
-   In the new buildings, 28 large lecture halls are being constructed (the smaller ones with 100
seats, the largest one with 700 seats).
-   In 5 buildings, mainly in DEBRECEN, chemistry, biology and biochemistry laboratories are
being constructed and equipped for life science and medical education and research.
-   Within 6 institutions major library development is underway, mainly in Szeged, with the library in
a building of 20,000 sgm of floor space.
-   Student dormitory accommodation for up to 2000 students will be solved within the project, out
of this, the designs for buildings to accommodate 910 students have been prepared and the
construction works of two buildings have been started.
- 22 -



c)   Status of Design Competitions:
For the procurement of architectural design services of the new facilities and reconstruction, 12
architectural design competitions have been called so far, the competitions started in the middle
of last year, and 3 are, at present, underway.
Component 3: Management Information Systems Development (MIS)
The Management Information Systems Development (MIS) component of the Higher Education Reform
Project supported the development of the new management information structures, procedures and
systems in the integrating HEls.
Fulfilled obiectives:
a)  Strategic issues
Detailed analytical evaluation established policies for information systems.
Data needed locally versus nationally had been determined to the support management and
policy development.
b)  Support to the new institutional network
The project provided a tool for the integrating HEIs to manage themselves more efficiently and
effectively by financing the procurement of servers, network, workstation equipment the
adaptation and implementation of application software, the training of technical and operational
staff. The new institutional network of HEls resulted in consolidation of administrative and
management functions and resulted in efficiency gains.
c)  Complementing physical renewal efforts
The hardware procurements complemented the overall effort on the improvement of the network
and computing facilities.
Component 4: Management Capacity Development
During the period January 1999-May 2001 all the necessary steps were taken to plan, develop and
launch an appropriate management capacity building program for the Hungarian higher education sector.
The program was elaborated with a view to the projected short and medium term needs of the sector and
priorities were defined according to the development policy of the Ministry of Education including the
plans for financial and academic reforms, the management of change and all the measures to be taken
to achieve the competitiveness of the sector.
Achievements
-     Proiect design and plannina: the planning process that Bank funded programs require proved to
be a useful and essential tool for launching the program. The component managed to develop a
framework that would be appropriate for the implementation of a management capacity building
program in response to the challenges the sector as a whole has to face in Hungary.
-     Needs assessment: the final program structure was based on previous research and various
needs assessment studies to address genuine training needs in higher education. As a result of
the needs assessment exercise, the program is able to offer a variety of training modes and
types and is also easily adaptable to the rapidly changing social and economic environment.
-     Forward thinking and Sustainability: a strategy was developed to respond to the long term needs
of the sector and maintain a continuing education program that would support any necessary
changes in the institutional structures and management roles in higher education.
- 23 -



Evaluation: The development of adequate monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the
implementation of the component was started.
Pool of exDerts: through its planning activities the program managed to draw on the contribution
of a number of high quality consultants, both foreign and local, whose work should be continued
in the future.
Component 5: Student Loan Program
One of the main objectives of this project was to increase mobility within the society, and to create the
conditions of maintain a mass higher education system of quality. Evidences pointed out, that the present
student support subsidies system is not efficient enough and doesn't assure equity satisfactorily.
Therefore it should have been newly planned and implemented based on substantial and widespread
investigation and design. In order to improve equity both a well-functioning and fair student support
subsidies system and a well-designed student loan structure was needed. A well-designed student loan
program will contribute - through much greater access to higher education and increased number of
graduated students from all levels of the society - to achieve improved equity at national level.
In November 2000 the Government approved the Decree of the Government Regarding the Principles of
the Student Loan System and the Tasks To Be Fulfilled in the Interest of Its Implementation (No.
1105/2000 (XII.08.).
The Decree of the Government No. 119/2001 (VI.30.) Regarding the Student Loan System and the
Student Loan Company was published in June 2001.
The Student Loan Company was founded in April 2001.
We mention in addition that the introduction of the Student Loan in the fall of 2001 is extremely
successful: up to now more then 40.000 students have joined the program. The MoE has prepared the
scheme and has led the preparation of this successful program. The future technical realization of the
student loan system is clearly not the task of the MoE, but it will give all the support to maintain this
extremely successful program later on as well.
Sustainability
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The reform of the Hungarian higher education supported by the Bank Loan has launched an irreversible
process. The new network of HEls, the amendments of the Higher Education Act made in the spirit of the
reform, the government decrees passed on the introduction of the credit system, on the entrance
examination, on the normative financing of HEls, the principles and tasks to be fulfilled in the interest of
the implementation of the student loan system created the legal basis for the reform process. The MoE is
determined to continue the reform along the path of the started reform even after the cancellation of the
Bank loan.
The government intends to complete several of the reforms that have been started or where the
preliminary steps were taken (among others the financial reform and the academic reform). The Minister
of Education made commitment for more then 42 billion HUF by signing agreements with HEls to spend
this amount on infrastructural investment during the next few years. The Student Loan Program enjoys a
very strong political support, the first loans were available for more then 40.000 registered students by
October 2001. The introduction of the credit system is also required by law. The MoE supports the
Institutions in their effort to make their credit based curriculum system by organizing workshops, lectures
and providing recommendations.
- 24 -



The extent to what the components of the project designed according to the Bank loan are going to be
integrated in the future higher education development policies is yet to be determined. However the MoE
is committed to involve the human resources of the PMU into the implementation of the ongoing reform.
Bank and Borrower performance
In retrospect it is clear that the Borrower - including the implementing agency - concentrated on achieving
the goals of the project. This aim - as it can be seen from the above - was not substantially influenced by
the technical problems on which the Bank primarily focused in the evaluation report: the academic and
institutional reform was performed between 1999 and 2001 and the investment component got real
momentum only in 2001.
Bank
Lending:
The original lending instrument was unfit for the project. As the international judgement of the country
has been changed since 1996; it should have been considered to switch over to a different instrument
suitable to the changed economic situation of the country. Given the lengthy preparation phase and the
long implementation phase it would have been particularly important to harmonize the lending instrument
and the project design. Nevertheless, the procedure of withdrawals was without complication, it
functioned satisfactorily since the OHDP (Office for Higher Education Development Programs - FFPI)
started its work as PMU. The local office of the Bank with which the MoE has worked since September
1998 helped considerably to achieve the mentioned level of performance.
Supervision:
The Bank gave many useful remarks during the supervision missions, especially on policy issues. The
Bank was ever ready to negotiate all the HE policy questions rising between two supervisions. However,
some of the procurement issues - present since the preparation phase of the project - kept re-occurring,
no long term solutions were agreed on.
Overall Bank performance:
The present representatives of the Ministry of Education can judge the performance of the Bank only
since September 1998. Since then, the local office of the Bank has been helpful in resolving the arising
problems. It gave substantial support in revising and modifying the project according to the changed HE
policy aims. The Bank enabled the MoE to redefine the project without losing sight of the major
objectives to be achieved.
Except for the Public Procurement Law, the Bank and the Borrower failed to harmonize its procurement
procedures with the relevant Hungarian legislation in force during the preparation stage of the project.
Borrower oerformance - PMU
The Program Management Unit (PMU) did all that was within its competence to solve the problems
arising during implementation which were inherent to the project due to its design failures. The
performance beyond expectations of the MoE, of the PMU and of the Bank's local office is proven by the
fact that the main objectives of the project have been achieved.
Lessons Learned
During the implementation of the HERP the otherwise well defined Bank procedures failed to promote the
achievement of the planned objectives. The difficulties could be traced back to the following major
factors.
- 25 -



The first problem was that of to what extent to use the existing public procurement procedure.
From the Borrower's point of view the implementation of a project would be speeded up and
simplified if the Bank - especially in the case of economies in transition like in Hungary -
examined and accepted the existing public procurement system (PPS) in the given country
(should the PPS be acceptable to the Bank). A further benefit from the use of the local public
procurement would be that the experience accumulated in the PMU could be re-usable in other
local projects. The PMU specialized in Bank procedures is unnecessarily expensive if the
borrowing country cannot use the accumulated experience - which is the case for the time being
in a country like Hungary.
The second problem concemed a specific procurement issue. The Bank didn't approve any
contract with a term longer than 18 months to be lump-sum based. It slowed down the
preparation of some contracts with expert groups since the structure of many projects was
designed to be linked to the completion of tasks especially in the policy components. This way
the use of time-based contract forms was a burden to the project as a whole and necessitated
excessive supervision of the signed contracts to achieve time efficient completion of the planned
outputs. We suggest the Bank to consider deciding on the approval of contract forms to be used
on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration the professional arguments of the responsible
staff on the borrower's side.
The third one related to the Bank's rule that no contract can be signed with a public employee (or
at least no expert fee can be disbursed to public employees). Those local experts who do know
the Hungarian higher education and whose participation in the Project implementation is viable
for the Project to succeed, could not be selected to participate as consultants because practically
all of them are working at universities as public employees.
Finally it is thought that at the beginning of preparing a project design it is necessary to consider
to find the lending instrument most suitable for the Bank as well as for the borrower.
After the general remarks there are two specific components where the lessons leamed are to be
mentioned:
Lessons leamed from the Manaaement Information Systems Development component:
T he employment of the consulting company proved to be helpful during the specification phase
and they performed well the quality assurance too. Finally there was no need for the
procurement agent, partly because the fulfilled procurements were small ones, partly the MIS
staff could manage the procurements by itself.
The partial failure of the introduction of the Financial Management System (FMS) of Universities
highlights the importance of the contractual setup of the project. The contractual triangle among
the MoE, the HEIs and the supplier have serious inherited difficulties which can arise in
unexpected situations. This schema should be avoided in the future and a direct, success
oriented schema should be used.
The performance ability of the FMS and SRS (Student Registration System) developers was
overestimated and the obvious and hidden difficulties of the institutional introduction was
underestimated.
The continuity in the management of the component has great importance. The MIS component
suffered a lot from the often personal changes.
Lessons learned from the Management Capacity DeveloDment component:
- 26 -



Clarity of Vision: the implementation of such projects requires a very deep understanding of the
context, the aims, objectives to be able to arrive at an adequate and agreed project framework.
Institutional Development Policy: Management training should be an integral part of a
comprehensive sector policy including institutional development policy. The component was
somewhat standing apart from the mainstream policy design.
Communication and Consensus Building: the implementation of any such programs is a
participatory process that involves all the relevant stakeholders. There should be established
channels of communication between all the interested parties to ensure successful
implementation. It needs in addition a sub-component which aims the acceptance by the higher
education community.
The Role of Foreign Consultants: the role and function of external experts should be clearly
defined and agreed before the implementation of any such program.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
Legislation on Higher Education since 1998
Act LIl of 1999
on the reorganisation of the higher educational institutional network as well as on the amendments of
Act LXXX of 1993 on higher education
Act XCVII of 2000
on the amendments of Act LXXX of 1993 on higher education
Government Decree No 72/1998. (VI.10.)
on the financing of higher education based on normative training and operational expenses
Government Decree N 11211999. (VII.16.)
on the amendment of Govemment Decree No. 72/1998. (VI. 10.) on the financing of higher education
based on normative training and operational expenses
Government Decree N 120/2000. (Vl1.7.)
on the financing of higher education institutions based on normative training and operational expenses
- 27 -



Government Decree N 199/2000. (XI.29.)
on the operation of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee (which government decree repeals Gov.
Decree N. 66/1997. (IV.18.) on the organisation and operation of the Hungarian Accreditation
Committee and on the fundamental regulations of the accreditation procedure)
Government Decree N0 200/2000. (XI.29.)
on the introduction of the credit transfer system and the unified filing system of the institutional credit
transfer systems
(This govemment decree replaces Govemment Decree N0. 90/1998 (V.8.) of the same title)
Government Decree N0 119/2001. (VI.30.)
on the student loan system and the Student Loan Company
- 28 -



Summary table of status of IDPs at present
6th July 2001
This report provides information about the Higher Education Institutions' Institutional
Development Plans (IDPs) submitted, evaluated, approved and rejected by the Ministry of
Education during the period May 1999 and June 2001.
Accordinq to old Handbook
Provisionary Agreements were signed between 5 institutions and the MOE
(March 2000):
University of Debrecen
University of Szeged
University of Miskolc
College of Nyfregyhaza
Sapientia Religious College of Theology
5 institutions have submitted their supplementary versions of IDPs, which was approved (on the
basis of the evaluations of HERC):
College of Kecskemet
Tessedik Samuel College
Budapest Technical College
St. Stephen University
Semmelweis University
Accordinq to new Handbook (from March 2000)
Evaluated by the new IDP Evaluation Committee, approved by the MOE:
Ist and 2nd main chapter of IDPs submitted by the institutions:
Institution                             Evaluated, recommended      Approved by the
grading                  MOE
1st main chapter       2nd main chapter
University of Kaposvar                             "A"              "A" 1st + 2nd main
______________________________________                ~~chapter
Eszterhazy Karoly College                         "A"               "A" 1st + 2nd main
chapter
Theological College of Szeged                      "A"               "A" 1st + 2nd main
chapter
Berzsenyi Daniel College                          "A"               "A" 1st + 2nd main
chapter
Eotvos J6zsef College                              "A"               "A" 1 st + 2nd main
chapter
University of Veszpr6m                             "A"               to be revised1st
main chapter
West Hungarian University                          "A"               to be revisedlst
main chapter
Sz6chenyi lstvan College                          "A"                to be revised1st
main chapter
- 29 -



Budapest University of Technical and              "A"               to be amendedl St
Economical Sciences                                                   main chapter
Budapest University of Economic Sciences          "A"               to be revised1st
and Public Administration                                             main chapter
Hungarian University of Applied Arts             "A"                to be revised1st
._____________________________   m ain   chapter
1st main chapter of IDPs submitted by the institutions and evaluated by the Evaluation
Committee as grade "A" or conditional "A":
Institution                                   Evaluated,       Approved by the MOE
recommended grading
1st main chapter
College of Dunaujvaros                            "A"           1st main chapter
Budapest Business College                         "A"           1 St main chapter
University of Pecs                                "A"          1st main chapter
Pazmany Peter Catholic University                 "A"           1 st main chapter
Eotvos Lorand University                     Conditional "A"    Conditionally
Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music                Conditional "A"    Conditionally
Hungarian Art College of Dancing             Conditional "A"   Conditionally
Episcopal Theological College of Pecs        Conditional "A"   Conditionally
Theological College of Gy6r                  Condifional "A"   Conditionally
Theological College of Veszprem              Conditional "A"   Conditionally
College of Szolnok                           Conditional "A"    Conditionally
1st main chapter of IDPs submitted by the institutions, and evaluated by the Evaluation
Committee as to be revised:
Institution                                             The Evaluation Committee's
recommendation
1st main chapter
Zrinyi Mikl6s University of National Defence                   to be revised
Apor Vilmos Theological College                                to be revised
Lutheran Theological University                                to be revised
Vitez Janos Roman Catholic Teacher Training College            to be revised
University of Drama and Film Arts                              to be revised
St. Atanaz Greek Catholic Theological College                  to be revised
Kodolanyi Janos College                                        to be revised
- 30 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Enrollment rate of the age group 18-22 years, Indicators are derived from the Sept. 30,    Enrollment rate estimated at 30% for
with goal of 25% by the end of the projed.   2000, GOH report on 'the periodic outputs of academic year 2000101.
monitoring activities" which gives the most
recent data available to the ICR mission.
Number of applications to HEls as                                            In 1999/00 the average applicant applied to
percentage of applicants.                                                    2.33 HEls. 65% of all applicants were
admitted by at least one HEI.
Enrollments in non-state HEis as share of                                    In 2000/01 14.6% of all new students
total enrollments.                                                           enrolled in non state HEls.
Recurrent cost per student as percent of per                                 70% in 1999/00, a decrease from 121% in
capita GDP.                                                                  1995/96.
Ratio of students to staff, with goal of 10.5 by                             As of 1999/00 the ratio of FTE students to
end of project                                                               teaching staff was 12.5 and the ratio of FTE
students to non-teaching staff was 5.3.
Public expenditures on higher education as                                   46% in 1999/00, a decrease from 70% in
percent of GDP.                                                              1995/96.
Total public expenditures on public higher                                   Tuition revenue in public HEIs has increased
education that are financed privately.                                       from 7 billion HUF in 1995/96 to a projected
21.6 billion HUF in 1999/00. In addition,
public HEls had another 60.6 billion HUF of
own-source revenue in 1999/00.
Number of students paying tuition in public                                  36,020 students admitted to first degree
HEls. Increase percent of instructional costs                                programs without state support in 2000/01;
financed by tuition to 15%.                                                  40% of all admitted students.
Percent of total public higher education                                     5.6% in 2000/01.
expenditures going to non-state HEls.
Output Indicators:
Allocation of state-funded admissions.                                       Students allowed to apply to multiple HEls;
HEls compete for the best students on the
basis of national examinations. Quotas still
exist for numbers of state-funded stuclents by
HEi.
Development of norms-based budgeting                                         A transparent, simpified funding formula has
been introduced with HEI financing based on
enrollments and program costs.
Restructuring intermediary institutions.                                     Some intermediary organizations - FTT,
FEFA -have been weakened rather than
strengthened, while the HAC has been
strengthened.
Greater financial authority for HEls.                                        HEIs have not been granted greater financial
authority.
Reforms in teaching programs, processes,                                     HEIs have been mandated to adopt the credit
and structures.                                                              system by 2002, and 40% of students are
now enrolled in HEIs with credit systems.
Degree requirements and teaching programs
have yet to be adjusted.
Equitable higher education finance                                           The basis for allocating state subsidies has
not been shifted from merit to financial need,
although equity has been improved by
reducing student living subsidies in real
terms, granting eligibility for student loans to
all students, and enabling municipalities to
- 31 -



grant financial aid to needy students.
Incentives for private higher education.                                   Students in private HEIs are eligible fDr
student loans, but students in public FlEls
are not required to pay tuibon, thus reducing
the incentive for students to enroll in private
HEls.
Integration of single purpose HEls                                         GOH mandated the integration of most
publicly funded HEls, going beyond the goals
of the project.
Develop HEI planning and management                                        Strategic planning introduced in all HEls, not
systems                                                                    just those receiving financing under the
Project.
HE I investment program                                                    After lengthy delays, HEI investments are
being implemented with GOH financing for
the 2001-02 budget period.
Develop new management information                                         Very litte progress has been made.
systems.
Strengthen management capacity                                             Almost no progress has been made.
development.
Develop student loan program                                               Student loan program created and adopted,
but subsequent to the ICR mission GOH
introduced costly interest rate subsidies
which threaten the sustainability of the
program.
End of project
- 32 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
1. Sector Policy Development and Implementation       7.41           0.51            6.94
2. Higher Education Institutions                    20.51             2.93           1.45
3. HEI Management Information Systems                19.47            1.09           5.58
4. Management Capacity Development                    6.80            0.12           1.75
5. Student Loan Program                               2.58            0.95          36.87
6. Project Management                                 2.96            0.93          31.53
7. Project Preparation Facility                       2.80            0.76          27.03
Total Baseline Cost                                 243.53            7.29
Physical Contingencies                               2.63
Price Contingencies                                  3.84
Total Project Costs            250.00            7.29
Total Financing Required             250.00           7.29
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     110.00        65.00         11.70         0.00        186.70
(60.10)       (38.50)      (11.70)       (0.00)      (110.30)
2. Goods                     12.80          0.00         4.60          14.90        32.30
(9.40)       (0.00)        (3.60)        (0.00)       (13.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         22.60         0.00         22.60
Technical Assistance         (0.00)        (0.00)       (19.80)       (0.00)       (19.80)
Consultant Services
Fellowships                  0.00          0.00          3.60          0.00         3.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.60)        (0.00)       (3.60)
4. Incremental Operating      0.00          0.00         0.60          1.40         2.00
Costs                        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.40)       (0.00)       (0.40)
5. PPF Refinancing           0.00          0.00          2.80          0.00         2.80
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.80)        (0.00)       (2.80)
Total                     122.80        65.00         45.90         16.30        250.00
(69.50)       (38.50)      (41.90)       (0.00)       (149.90)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Exp.nditure Category~~_____
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
- 33 -



2. Goods                          0.00            0.00           1.23           0.92           2.15
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.03)          (0.00)        (1.03)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.70           4.44           5.14
Technical Assistance             (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.50)         (0.00)         (0.50)
Consultant Services
Fellowships                       0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
____________________         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Incremental Operating          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
Costs                            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. PPF Refinancing                0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
___________________          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           1.93           5.36           7.29
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.53)          (0.00)        (1.53)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component in US$ million e uivalent
1. Sector Policy          4.13       3.27                 0.31       0.20                 7.5    6.1
Development and
Implementation
2. Higher Education       85.30     116.21                 0.00       2.93                0.0    2.5
Institutions
3. HEI Management         11.99      7.48                  0.61       0.47                5.1    6.3
Information Systems
4. Management Capacity    6.30       0.50                  0.11       0.01                1.7    2.0
Development
5. Student Loan Program   0.88       1.70                  0.27       0.68               30.7   40.0
6. Project Management     0.09       2.87                  0.21       0.72               233.3   25.1
7. Project Preparation    0.70       2.10                  0.02       0.74                2.9    35 2
Facility
-34 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
tageof Pof ject Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty             Performa ce Rating
-(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
\0000000f0 Month/Yearltl Coun\itS0  Specialty                 Progress      Objectve 
Identification/Preparation
02/96                        2   Mission Leader, Human
Development Spec.
06/96                        6   Mission Leader, Human
Development Spec., Education
Spec., Economist, Normative
Financing Spec., Higher
Education Management Spec.
10/96                        2   Mission Leader, Human
Development Spec.
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/96                       10   Mission Leader, Operations
Officer, Economist,
Implementation Spec.,
Higher Education Policy
Spec., IT Spec., Private
Education Spec., Civil Work
Spec., Normative Financing
Spec., Monitoring and
Evaluation Spec.
05/97                       10   Mission Leader, Operations
Officer, Economist, Impl. Spec.,
Higher Education Policy Spec.,
IT Spec., Private Education
Spec., Civil Work Spec.,
Normative Financing Spec.,
Monitoring and Evaluation Spec.
Supervision
07/98                             This is the initial summary         S             S
10/98                        3   Program Team Leader, Human          U              U
Resource Economist,
Procurement Spec.
04/99                        6   Program Team Leader, Human           U             U
Resource Economist, Operations
Officer, 2 Procurement Specs.,
Project Assistant
10/99                        8   Program Team Leader, Human           S             S
Resource Economist, Operations
Analyst, IT Spec., 2 Procurement
Specs., Research Analyst, Project
Assistant
04/00                         7   Program Team Leader, IT Spec.,      S             S
Principal Procurement Spec., 2
Procurement Specs., Procurement
Assistant, Project Assistant
- 36 -



11/00                        6   Program Team Leader,               S            HS
Economist, 2 Procurement
Specs., Procurement Assistant,
Project Assistant
ICR
05/01                       4    Program Team Leader, 2
Procurement Specs., Project
Assistant
07/01                       2    Education Spec., Procurement
Spec.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               48.7                       150.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                   137.9                       434.2
Supervision                             106.6                       342.0
ICR                                      17.0                        69.0
Total                                   310.2                       996.1
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LII Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
ZFinancial                                 OH  OSU*M  ON  O NA
Z Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
FLI Environmental                          0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
Soc-ial
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)            OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Responsiveness
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
FII Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
0 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
0 Preparation                                         OHS OS  OU  O HU
3 Government implementation performance               O HS O S   0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   * U   O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report                                        January 30, 1998
2. Minutes of negotiations                                        December 19, 1997
3. Loan Agreement                                                 March 4, 1998
4. Amendment of the Loan Agreement                                September 30, 1999
5. Cancellation Letter                                            April 20, 2001
6. Confirmation of Cancellation                                   May 22, 2001
- 40 -



