Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4287 HU
Loan Agreement
(Higher Education Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 4, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4287 HU 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) the Bank has received a letter dated February 2, 1998, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform the 
Borrower’s system of higher education (the Reform Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Reform Program; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
Page  2
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice,  such amount of the Loan shall be 
canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Act” means the Borrower’s Higher Education Act (Act LXXX of 1993), as 
amended by Act LXI of 1996.
(b)
“CIP” means a capital investment plan specified in paragraph 2(a) or 
2(b), as the case may be, of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany.
(d)
“FEFA” means the Higher Education Development Fund, an agency of the 
Borrower, established pursuant to the Decree of the Minister of MCE, 11/96 (X.9) MKM, 
and includes any successor or successors thereto.
(e)
“HAC” means the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, established by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 80 of the Act and includes any successor or successors 
thereto.
(f)
“HEA” and “HEAs” mean singularly the Higher Education Association (as 
described in Sections 12 and 12/A of the Act) and collectively the Higher Education 
Associations selected for participation under Part B of the Project pursuant to and in 
accordance with paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(g)
“HEI” and “HEIs” mean singularly the Higher Education Institution (as 
described in Section 2 of the Act) and collectively the Higher Education Institutions 
selected for participation under Part B of the Project pursuant to and in accordance 
with paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(h)
“HERC” means the Higher Education and Research Council, established by 
the Borrower pursuant to Sections 76-79 of the Act and includes any successor or 
successors thereto.
(i)
“IAP” means the International Advisory Panel referred to in paragraph 4 
of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(j)
“IDP” means an institutional development plan specified in paragraph 2(a) 
Page  3
or 2(b), as the case may be, of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(k)
“Investment Agreement” means an agreement entered into between MCE, on 
behalf of the Borrower, and a HEA/HEI in respect of an Investment Project, pursuant to 
and in accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
and shall include any amendments made thereto from time to time with the concurrence 
of the Bank.
(l)
“Investment Project” means a capital investment project under Part B of 
the Project.
(m)
“Investment” means a capital investment made or proposed to be made in a 
selected HEA/HEI by the Borrower for an Investment Project out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
(n)
“MCE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture and Education and includes 
any successor or successors thereto.
(o)
“NCC” means the National Credit Council, established or to be established 
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 78/A(1) of the Act and includes any successor or 
successors thereto.
(p)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, established by MCE pursuant to 
its Ministerial Resolution No. 2388, dated December 3, 1977.
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 16, 
1997 and October 15, 1997, between the Borrower and the Bank.
(r)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred sixty three million six hundred thousand Deutsche Mark (DEM 263,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by a HEA/HEI under an Investment Agreement to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Parts A, C, D, E and F of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
DEM a special deposit account in the National Bank of Hungary on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MCE, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, and educational policies and practices and 
in conformity with the Reform Program, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Reform Program and the actions specified in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Reform Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Reform Program, or any action taken under the Reform Program, 
including any action specified in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with sound accounting practices and in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection 
with the carrying out of the Project.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable 
to the Bank consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request; and
(iv)
(A) have the financial management system for the Project evaluated 
by an 
appropriate auditing body by June 30, 1998; (B) furnish to 
the Bank a report 
on such evaluation by said auditing body by July 31, 
1998; and (C) review with 
the Bank said report within one month of said 
report’s submission to the Bank, 
and, thereafter, take all measures 
necessary to ensure the efficient flow of 
funds for the Project 
taking into consideration the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during each fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the NCC has  been established pursuant to Section 78/A of the Act;
(b)
the IAP has been established and staffed pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c)
the establishment of a task force to oversee the design of the Borrower’s 
student loan guarantee program under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
Page  6
(d)
the submission of a proposal with terms of reference for a study on 
methods and procedures for targeting student subsidies on students in financial need; 
and
(e)
the promulgation of a decree by the Borrower intended to: (i) integrate 
the maintenance with the teaching allocation category in the Borrower’s normative 
financing system under its budget for 1998 and thereafter; and (ii) reduce the total 
number of normative recipient categories from 14 to no more than 7.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Deputy President of the National Bank of Hungary is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Bank of Hungary
Department for International Development Institutions
H-1850 Budapest, Szabadsag ter 8-9
Republic of Hungary
Cable address: 
Telex:
BANKO
22-5755
Budapest
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
By /s/ Balint Magyar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Anil Sood
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
    DEM)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works for
  173,400,000
60%
Investments under
Part B of the Project
(2)
Consultants' services
   50,770,000
100%
(including auditing
services), training
and fellowships
(3)
Goods
   23,010,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)
Incremental
     4,220,000
100% up to June 30,
Operating Costs
2000, and 75% thereafter
(5)
Refunding of Project
     4,920,000
Amounts due pursuant 
to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
      7,280,000
TOTAL
    263,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the additional costs 
incurred by MCE on account of the PMU staff salaries, office facilities, services; 
staff travel and consumable office supplies as may be agreed by the Bank; and
(d)
the term “training” means the training activities (other than 
consultants’ services) to be carried out under the Project, including the travel cost 
and per diem of the trainees and other expenditures as may be agreed by the Bank.
Page  8
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) for an Investment, unless the Investment has been made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Part C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
in case of individuals and $100,000 in case of firms; and (c) training and 
fellowships, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop a system of higher education that: 
(a) responds to the Borrower's changed and changing social and economic needs; (b) 
operates efficiently; (c) mobilizes greater private finance; and (d) distributes the 
costs of education more equitably.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Sector Policy Development
Introduction of key policy and administrative reforms regarding higher 
education, including: (1) the establishment of an enrollment allocation mechanism 
based largely on student choice; (2) the further development and implementation of 
norms-based financing; (3) the development and introduction of a credit and credit 
transfer system; (4) the reform of curricula to emphasize a broader approach, more 
independent learning and greater flexibility in requirements, including requirements 
for general education in earlier years and specialized education in later years; (5) 
the restructuring and strengthening of FEFA, HAC, HERC, and NCC; (6) the provision of 
additional financial authority for HEAs/HEIs; (7) the adoption of strategic planning 
and business procedures and practices within HEAs/HEIs; (8) the introduction of 
unified procedures and criteria for capital investments; (9) the achievement of higher 
student-teacher ratios; (10) the adoption of a more equitable system of higher 
education financing; and (11) the creation of incentives for development of private 
higher education.
Part B:
Capital Investment Projects
Undertaking of capital investment projects, through the execution of CIPs, in 
selected HEAs/HEIs to support implementation of their respective IDPs, including 
provision of construction, renovation, furniture and equipment, such as equipment 
needed for telecommunications, library and lecture halls and large classrooms, and 
technical assistance specified in their respective CIPs.
Part C:
Financial Management Information Systems
Development of new structures, procedures and systems, for such functions as 
budgeting, accounting and financial control systems, student registration systems, 
research registry systems and physical facilities control systems through the 
provision of technical assistance, training, software, and equipment.
Part D:
Management Capacity Development
Strengthening of management skills and capacity in the areas of planning (such 
as institutional development planning and business planning), financial management and 
information systems, and other areas through the provision of technical assistance and 
training for the staff of: (1) public and private HEAs/HEIs, and (2) MCE, HERC, HAC, 
NCC, FEFA and other supervisory bodies in the field of higher education.
Page  9
Part E:
Student Loan Program
Development of a national student loan program through the provision of 
technical assistance aimed at: (1) establishing an autonomous student loan guarantee 
agency; (2) designing its policies, systems and operating procedures; (3) elaborating 
mechanisms for recovering loans; and (4) developing financial products in order to 
provide borrowers a range of repayment options.
Part F:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and operating costs for the 
management and operation of the PMU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
Part A:
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
Part B:
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
Page  10
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single currency for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in 
respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings 
or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include 
such Disbursed Amount for such Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency for value on 
the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest 
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of 
such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to 
fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date 
for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Part C:
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twelfth (12th) Interest Payment Date 
Page  11
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-sixth (1/6) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after May, 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $65,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 hereof, goods estimated to cost less 
than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$4,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent 
Page  12
of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for civil works under Part C.1 
hereof and each contract therefor thereafter, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for architectural design, construction, 
management and supervision under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Fixed budget services for university twinning partnerships under Part D of the 
Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Services for sector policy development, auditing, and the PMU may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
Page  13
paragraph 1, and the first and third subparagraphs of paragraph 2(a) of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
General Covenants
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through MCE with the assistance of 
HERC, FEFA, PMU and such of its other departments and agencies as may be expedient for 
the purpose.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank, select, for 
participation under Part B of the Project, HEAs which shall have: (i) initiated the 
process of obtaining approval from the Borrower pursuant to Section 4/A or Section 
12/A of the Act and the relevant rules, regulations and decrees thereunder; (ii) 
prepared a comprehensive institutional development plan setting out goals, mission, 
plans for integration, efficiency targets and means of achievement; (iii) prepared a 
detailed capital investment plan based on an analysis of occupancy rates and use 
factors of existing premises and projected schedules of accommodation; and (iv) 
obtained approval of their respective IDP/CIP from their respective governing bodies 
(institution councils/senates).
(b)
The Borrower may, in agreement with the Bank, select, for participation 
under Part B of the Project, HEIs, on the basis of competition for purposes of 
academic rationalization and consolidation and subject to an aggregate limit of thirty 
million Dollars and ten million Dollars for any single HEI, which shall have: (i) 
prepared a comprehensive institutional development plan setting out goals, mission, 
plans for administrative and academic rationalization and consolidation, efficiency 
targets and means of achievement; (ii) prepared a detailed capital investment plan 
based on an analysis of occupancy rates and use factors of existing premises and 
projected schedules of accommodation; and (iii) obtained approval of their respective 
IDPs/CIPs from their respective governing bodies (institution councils).
3.
The Borrower shall approve or cause each IDP and CIP to be approved and make 
Investment in each HEA/HEI, in consultation with the Bank, in accordance with criteria 
and procedures, acceptable to the Bank, and on the terms and conditions set forth in 
Part C of this Schedule.
4.
The Borrower shall establish and, during execution of the Project, maintain the 
IAP for the purpose of evaluating, commenting and advising on the implementation of 
the Reform Program under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The IAP shall 
comprise a panel of experts, whose experience, qualifications and terms and conditions 
of employment shall be acceptable to the Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall maintain or cause the HERC, FEFA and PMU to be maintained 
with funds, facilities, functions, powers, and qualified staff in adequate numbers 
necessary to assist MCE in carrying out the Project as deemed satisfactory by the 
Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain (a) an Executive 
Director of FEFA in consultation with the Bank; (b) the Deputy State Secretary of 
Higher Education as Project Director who shall be overall in charge of the Project; 
and (c) the position of the Director of PMU and keep appointed a person to the said 
Page  14
position as deemed satisfactory by the Bank.
7.
The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1998, adopt a policy requiring MCE to apply 
criteria and procedures for approval of all capital investments in higher education 
financed from State budget resources, including future phases of current investment 
projects consistent with the criteria and procedures for Investments under this 
Project.
8.
The Borrower shall maintain its policy, requiring HEAs/HEIs to operate from a 
balanced budget, specified in the Borrower’s Act XXXVIII of 1992 on State Budgetary 
Procedure, as amended by Act CV of 1995.
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the 
Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 1999 and June 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 1999 and September 30, 2001, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) 
of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Part B:
Criteria for Approval of Investments
1.
No Investment shall be approved by the Bank after June 30, 1999, unless the Bank 
is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved 
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Reform Program; and (b) that the actions 
described in paragraph 4 below have been taken.
2.
No additional Investment shall be approved by the Bank after June 30, 2001, 
unless the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Reform Program; and (b) that the 
actions described in paragraph 5 below have been taken.
3.
If, after the exchange of views specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the Bank 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
4.
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
as part of its agreed mechanism of restructuring the allocation of 
enrollments and financial support to HEAs/HEIs, undertaken the reform of the 
methodology of student allocation to HEAs/HEIs in accordance with a proposal 
satisfactory to the Bank, including: (i) completion of a detailed design of the system 
of allocating state funds to students based on results of a national examination; (ii) 
initiation of the modification of the Act, if necessary, and issuance of regulations 
necessary to apply the said new system; (iii) development of a national examination 
for use in determining grant allocations for students entering the system in school 
year 2000; and (iv) completion of a study on the equity implications of the 
introduction of the said national examination under (iii) hereof and adoption of 
compensatory measures.
Page  15
(b)
as part of its agreed mechanism for improving and implementing a 
norms-based system for allocating central funds to HEAs/HEIs: (i) increased the full 
time equivalent student-staff ratio basis of normative financing from 8.7:1 to 10.5:1; 
(ii) eliminated all college/university disparities for same degrees; and (iii) 
completed a study on the rationalization of teacher training, medical and agricultural 
higher education, including non-teaching activities such as clinics and practice 
farms, and adopted key policy recommendations arising therefrom in consultation with 
the Bank.
(c)
as part of its agreed mechanism to install a credit system and 
rationalize curricula, issued decrees regarding: (i) the establishment of a credit 
system pursuant to Section 124/D(b) of the Act; and (ii) the guidelines for the 
process and framework for defining qualifications requirements so as to ensure 
broadening of study fields and deferral of specialization.
(d)
as part of its agreed mechanism to provide financial authority for 
HEAs/HEIs, and on the basis of positive experience gained, granted greater financial 
authority to additionally selected HEAs/HEIs.
(e)
as part of its agreed mechanism to increase private resource mobilization 
in public HEIs, increased revenue from tuition charges and instructional fees to at 
least 15% of direct instructional costs at public HEIs.
(f)
as part of its agreed mechanism to target student support subsidies on 
the most needy students: (i) completed evaluation of alternative procedures, in 
consultation with the Bank, for identifying financial need; and (ii) begun to allocate 
no less than 50% of the student support subsidy on the basis of financial need under 
rules based upon (i) hereof and acceptable to the Bank.
(g)
as part of its agreed mechanism to establish a student loan program: (i) 
completed the design of the student loan program referred to in Section 5.01(c) of 
this Agreement; and (ii) based on such design, (A) completed the detailed review of 
existing legislation affecting recovery of loans; (B) established an autonomous 
student loan guarantee agency; (C) developed systems and procedures for loan 
origination and servicing by the said agency under (ii)(B) hereof acceptable to the 
Bank; and (D) offered guaranteed loans to students in their fourth and fifth years of 
study in at least two of the integrating HEAs.
5.
The Borrower shall have:
(a)
as part of its agreed mechanism of restructuring the allocation of 
enrollments and financial support to HEAs/HEIs, put into effect the application of a 
national examination for determining grant allocations for students developed pursuant 
to Section 4(a) above;
(b)
as part of its agreed mechanism for improving and implementing a 
norms-based system for allocating central funds to HEAs/HEIs: (i) reduced the number 
of normative financing categories to 5; and (ii) increased the full time equivalent 
student-staff ratio basis of normative financing from 10.5:1 to 12:1;
(c)
as part of its agreed mechanism to install a credit system and 
rationalize curricula, caused MCE to implement the credit system established pursuant 
to paragraph 4(c) above nation-wide;
(d)
as part of its agreed mechanism to provide financial authority for 
HEAs/HEIs, and on the basis of positive experience gained pursuant to Section 4(d) 
above, granted greater financial authority to all HEAs/HEIs whose IDPs have been 
approved under the Act;
(e)
as part of its agreed mechanism to increase private resource mobilization 
in public HEIs, increased revenue from tuition charges and instructional fees to at 
least 20% of direct instructional costs at public HEIs;
(f)
as part of its agreed mechanism to target student support subsidies on 
most needy students, allocated no less than 75% of the student support subsidy on the 
basis of financial need; and
Page  16
(g)
as part of its agreed mechanism to establish a student loan program, and 
on the basis of experience gained: (i) reviewed initial experiences with the loan 
program; (ii) refined the procedures in light of the said experiences; and (iii) on 
the basis of positive experience gained pursuant to paragraph 4(g)(ii)(D) hereof, made 
the student loan program accessible to all students making satisfactory progress on an 
accredited program of study in a HEI.
6.
No Investment shall be made in a HEA unless it has received the final approval 
from the Borrower pursuant to Section 4/A or Section 12/A of the Act.
Part C:
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Approval of Investments 
and Investment Projects
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Investment for 
such Investment Project shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the 
Bank shall have received the application and information required under paragraph 2 of 
this Part in respect of such Investment.
2.
(a)
When presenting an Investment to the Bank for approval, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together 
with: (i) a description of the IDP and CIP and an appraisal of the Investment Project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Investment; and 
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 2002.
3.
Investments shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall, through MCE, 
obtain, by written contract with the HEA/HEI or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including to 
the extent that it shall be appropriate, the right to:
(a)
require the HEA/HEI to carry out and operate the Investment Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound financial, managerial, and 
educational standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, and construction included in 
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the HEA/HEI shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the HEA/HEI to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the HEA/HEI and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment 
Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the HEA/HEI to the use of the proceeds 
of the Loan upon failure by such HEA/HEI to perform its obligations under its contract 
with the Borrower.
4.
The Investment Agreement shall include the purpose, objectives, means and 
specific targets for: (a) administrative reform and consolidation, if applicable, 
Page  17
including consolidation of joint services to achieve scale economies and adoption of 
modern business planning practices; (b) academic reform and consolidation, if 
applicable, including broader degree programs and less academic specialization, 
implementation of a credit system, definition of full-time equivalent students, 
modularization of curricula, consolidation of core courses across departments and 
faculties, allowance of cross registration of students between faculties and 
institutions, and increasing the proportion of elective courses in total study 
programs; and (c) more effective and efficient teaching processes, including greater 
reliance on independent study by students outside of class with corresponding 
reductions of time in class, increased average number of students per teacher through 
such means as reduced weekly compulsory hours of classr
oom instruction for students, increased average number of students per class and/or 
increased weekly teaching loads for staff. The Investment Agreement shall also specify 
the data to be collected in monitoring achievement of these targets and objectives.
5.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Agreement 
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of 
the Project.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1, 2, 3, and 4 set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; for the avoidance of 
doubt, it is clarified that the term eligible Categories will be deemed to include the 
categories specified above only if and to the extent the conditions of disbursements, 
if any, in respect thereof provided in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
have been fulfilled;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
DEM 7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to DEM 3,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of DEM 21,100,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
Page  18
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.   
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  19
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
