Report No. PIC4981
Project Name                           Kazakstan-Health
Region                                 Europe and Central Asia
Sector                                 Population, Health, and Nutrition
Project ID                             KZPE46499
Borrower                               Government of Kazakstan
Implementing Agency                    Ministry of Health
63 Ablai Khan Avenue
Almaty, Kazakstan
Tel: 7-3272-33-46-11
Fax: 7-3272-33-17-19
Environment Category                   C
Date This PID Prepared                 April 14, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date               January, 1998
Projected Board Date                   March 12, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Kazakstan is a study of contrasts and diversity. While a
nation of less than 17 million people, it is nevertheless extremely
diverse ethnically and geographically. In 1995, Kazakhs were the
largest ethnic group at just about 45 percent; Slavs made up 35
percent; Germans, Koreans, and others comprised the remainder.
Kazakstan has the second largest land mass in the former Soviet
Union; it has five times the land mass of France, with less than
one-third the population. The land contains large endowments of
precious metals and oil reserves thought to equal those of Saudi
Arabia.
2.      Kazakstan has enjoyed a tradition of universal access to
health care services, as well as considerable investments in
curative medicine, prevention, and water and sanitation. Health
status indices improved steadily in Kazakstan during the 1950s and
1960s, but stabilized in the 1970s and 1980s. Socio-economic and
environmental problems of the last decade, however, have been
thought to severely strain both the health of the population and
the health care system.
3.      Kazakstan, like other Central Asian neighbors, enjoys
relatively good human development outcomes. High rates of literacy,
especially for females, represent significant achievements. Life
expectancy in Kazakstan has been relatively high; in 1994, it was
roughly 60.8 years for males, 65.8 years for females. The coupling
of these two indicators mean that the human development ranking is
higher than that simply based on income, especially compared to
poorer countries. The population is relatively young, with 31
percent of the population under 16 years of age, and expected to
become increasingly urbanized. At the same time, the crude birth



rate has plummeted from 24.9 births per 1000 in 1985 to 16.8 in
1995, and the official overall death rate in Kazakstan has steadily
increased, going from 8.9 deaths per 1000 in 1985 to 10.2 in 1995.
The total fertility rate is low compared to other middle income
countries (3.1 versus 2.9), but still high compared with the OECD
average (1.9). Average life expectancy has been dropping since
1989. There also has been significant outmigration of ethnic
Russians who tend to be older, more urbanized, have higher death
rates and have lower birth rates. These demographic trends have
important implications for health service priorities -- including
greater need for safe motherhood, immunization, and management of
the sick child
Objectives
4.      The project development objectives are regional and national
in scope. At the oblast level, the development objectives are to
integrate health reforms in two oblasts, including: (a) optimizing
the existing use of resources, (b) improving financing and
management capacity at service delivery level, and (c) updating
treatment methods through introduction of new protocols. At the
national level, the project development objective are to improve:
(a) understanding of health risk factors of the population; (b)
developing and implementing policy interventions to address these
risk factors; and disseminating information.
Description
5.      The proposed project would have two components: (i) at the
oblast level a program which would include (a) Primary Health Care;
(b) Facility Reorganization and Rationalization; (c) Financial and
Management Strengthening; and (ii) at the national level (a) Health
Promotion and (b) Health Program evaluation. The following is a
description of the proposed components:
(i) Oblast Level Program
(a) Primary Health Care: Health services would be refocused away
from hospitals and towards upgraded primary health care centers in
2 model oblasts. The focus would be on improving provision of
integrated cost-effective care (e.g., immunizations, management of
the sick child, safe motherhood, tuberculosis, and sexually-
transmitted disease (STD) programs) aimed at reducing the burden of
disease. This area would target specific disease areas such as (a)
Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI); and (b) Childhood Diarrhea
Diseases (CDD). Specific diseases would depend upon particular
oblast sites. Funding would be provided for: (i) training to
upgrade technical skills of primary health care workers, including
General Practitioners and nurses; (ii) updated protocols aimed at
reducing the highest burden of disease; (iii) basic clinical
equipment; and (iv) essential supplies and pharmaceuticals.
(b) Facility Reorganization and Rationalization: Unit costs of care
in outpatient services in the selected oblasts will increase,
necessitating some consolidation and re-allocation of assets and
- 2 -



funds from inpatient to outpatient settings. Reducing existing beds
alone fails to address the issue of underlying "fixed" costs.
Instead, unneeded or underutilized wings could be consolidated or
closed. Consolidating services would reduce duplication and improve
outcomes, and close down unnecessary services (e.g., WHO's
recommendation to close tuberculosis dispensaries). Other
facilities and wings could become part of a new multi-level system
of care that would include rehabilitation beds, nursing care beds
for social cases, and day-care beds. Existing ambulatory health
care centers might be upgraded, or small hospitals could be re-
opened as outpatient centers to support the shift to a primary
health care system. Funding would support: (i) modest
rehabilitation of facilities; (ii) improved structural and
maintenance aspects, such as energy saving measures; (iii) develop
materials and training for new multi-level facility standards; and
(iv) essential medical equipment and supplies
(c) Financial and Management Strengthening: New models of
financing, organization, and performance-based payment systems now
being designed in various oblasts in Kazakstan would be supported
and fully implemented, to increase both efficiency and quality of
care. Funds would support: (i) policy analysis and implementation
of new sources of financing of care (e.g., small co-payments),
resource allocation (e.g., per capita financing), and provider
payment systems; (ii) new management and information systems such
as computers, software, and information networks, both at the
facility level and by payers of services, to support changes in
organization and payment; (iii) short-term training of personnel in
areas of financial management, utilization management, and facility
management; and (iv) longer-term curriculum development, materials
and textbooks, and international training.
(ii) National Level Program
(a) Health Promotion: Non-communicable diseases such as
cardiovascular diseases, cancers, and accidents are the leading
causes of death in Kazakstan. These diseases often correlate with
lifestyle and behaviors related to diet, nutrition, smoking, and
alcohol consumption. Programs would be targeted both locally and
nationally. Funds would be targeted in the selected oblasts under
the project to improved nutrition programs and child development.
At the national level, funds would be targeted to capacity
development such as (i) studies on measures for health promotion
and disease prevention; (ii) materials and centers for health
promotion education and dissemination; (iii) grants for local,
innovative programs for health promotion and disease prevention;
and (iv) public information campaigns through mass media and other
outlets. This sub-component may also include some preliminary work
for a Clinical Information Network. This could include a
feasibility study, institution building or work with the INFODEV
project
(b)Health Program Evaluation: The purpose of this sub-component
would be to develop institutional capacity to monitor and evaluate
project results, disseminate recommendations, and prepare the
- 3 -



replication of the programs by MOH to other oblasts. Activities
would be evaluated against specific indicators as well as
evaluation of the overall implementation in order to learn from the
design and implementation before expansion to other oblasts. The
sub-component would provide local and foreign technical assistance,
and financing, and would finance dissemination of the
recommendations.
Financing
6.      Total Project costs are not yet determined but are estimated
to be about $30 million. Financing will be from a Bank loan ($20-25
million), Government contributions ($4-5 million), and possibly co-
financing from other donors ($2-3 million).
Implementation
7.      The executing agency for the project will be the Ministry of
Health. The Government has appointed an inter-ministerial working
group to be responsible for project preparation. The Government has
also established a Project Preparation Coordination Unit (PPCU) and
appointed a Director for the PPCU which will coordinate project
preparation and the implementation of this project. A PHRD Grant of
53 million yen has been signed and is being executed by the
Government (MOH). The grant will fund preparation activities
including consulting services and training for project preparation
and equipment for the PPCU. The PPCU will be responsible for
administering both the PHRD grant and the loan, including
procurement and disbursement functions, keeping records and
accounts and ensuring that these are audited by an external
auditor.
Sustainability
8.      By focusing on the provision of the most cost-effective care,
the project will improve the efficiency of the health system and as
a result the health system will be more sustainable. It will
attempt to rationalize some facilities, and the resulting savings
will be channeled to improving quality of care. New provider
payment mechanisms may create ceilings, preventing cost-escalation
and improving efficiency. The project will not increase coverage,
benefits, create new structures or lead to the contracting of new
staff. Direct cost recovery is not envisaged at this stage,
however, the improved efficiency will result in savings which will
ensure Sustainability.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9.      There are several sources we will rely on for lessons to be
learned for better project preparation and implementation. The
first is other health projects in the region including Georgia,
Estonia, Russia and the Kyrgyz Republic. The problems faced by the
countries of the former Soviet Union in the health sector are
similar across the region. These issues include a lack of primary
health care with the health sector focusing on curative rather than
- 4 -



preventive care. This also includes a lack of focus on health
promotion activities. Previous health projects in the FSU have
identified the following issues: slow start up of sector reforms;
insufficient financial commitment to the health sector; frequent
changes in ministerial high-level staff; initial weak
implementation capacity; the need to change incentives within the
system; to maintain some public sector involvement in the sector;
and to promote preventive care and health promotion in the system.
10.     Another source of information we will look to is the Country
Portfolio Performance Review for Kazakstan completed in 1996. This
has valuable lessons for future projects in Kazakstan including:
(i) the necessity of a full commitment and ownership on behalf of
the Borrower for TA to be effective; (ii) the necessity for TA to
be tightly managed and closely supervised; and (iii) advance
staffing of PIUs with core procurement staff (by pre-appraisal). In
addition, a lesson from the preparation and implementation of the
Social Protection Project was that the Bank should foster ownership
from the project from the outset. Involving technical and
managerial staff in project design ensures continuity despite
numerous managerial changes that are expected during project
preparation and implementation. Early setting up of a coordination
Unit also provides for early training of staff. A final lesson is
that selection of technical staff should emphasize capacity
building to ensure that the know how is passed from the TA to local
staff.
11.     A third source of information will be the experiences of
Government or Oblast reform efforts and other donors working in the
health sector in Kazakstan. Individual oblasts have participated in
demonstrations of new financing and provider payment approaches for
more than a decade and several other reform programs are underway
in various oblasts. During preparation, these programs will be
reviewed and lessons learned applied to the design of this project.
Poverty Category
11.     This project falls in category (b) of the Program of Targeted
Interventions. The direct beneficiaries of the project would be the
populations of the pilot oblasts, which over 1.5 million. The
majority of the population in the pilot oblasts live in rural
areas. However, the entire country is expected to benefit from the
Health Promotion activities.
Environmental Aspects
This project is classified as Category C as it is not expected to
have any adverse environmental effects.
Program Objective Categories
This project fits in two program objective categories: Economic
Management (50%-) and Poverty Reduction and Human Resource
Development (50%-). The project would contribute to economic
management by improving the efficiency of the health care system
- 5 -



and through strengthening the management and financing of health
care. It would contribute to human resource development by
improving the quality of care and the health outcomes of the
population, and helping to modernize the health sector.
Contact Point: Betty Hanan/John Langenbrunner, Tasks Managers
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-4525/473-3270
Fax No.:   (202) 477-0954
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 197.
- 6 -



