Page  1
January 22, 1997
Mr. Alexander Pavlov
Deputy Prime Minister 
and Minister of Finance
97 Ablai-Khan Av.
Almaty, 480091
Republic of Kazakstan
Re:
Japanese Grant for Proposed Health Project
Grant TF029123                                          
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding fifty three 
million Japanese Yen (¥53,000,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Kazakstan (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. This 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date hereof upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Director
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKSTAN
By /s/ Alexander Pavlov
      Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Date:  February 11, 1997
1.
Activities
1.1.
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to the assist the Recipient in the 
preparation of a proposed Health Project in Kazakstan. The activities (the Activities) 
for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Reviewing the organization and management of health service functions at 
different levels, including facility rationalization, and the role of the Recipient's 
Ministry of Health in a decentralized health system; and provision of assistance for 
the establishment of a Project Management Unit.
(b)
Carrying out of assessment of institutional constraints and developing 
training programs for physicians and other technical staff.
Page  2
(c)
Carrying out of assessment of equipment, pharmaceutical and supplies 
situation and priority needs in the context of refocusing health services towards 
upgraded primary health care centers. 
(d)
Strengthening of priority setting, budgeting, and monitoring capacity of 
the regional (oblast) health authorities, including designing of incentive-based 
payment systems.
(e)
Developing approaches to health needs assessment and evaluation of health 
care programs, including the setting up of a clinical information network.
(f)
Planning of targeted interventions for main health problems, including 
shifting to primary health care.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out, through its Ministry of Health, the 
Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit its territory for purposes 
related to the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the 
Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results 
and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981  (the Consultant Guidelines).  For 
complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of 
contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto 
as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be 
used.
3.2.
Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured: (a) in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996 (the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis 
of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines. The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such 
paragraph 4, shall be read as "quotations".
3.3.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
% of
Allocated (in Japanese
Expenditures to
Page  3
Item
Yen)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
46,469,280
100%
services
(2)
Training
 3,498,600
100%
(3)
Goods
 3,032,120
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 75% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
TOTAL
53,000,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Recipient, and the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or 
in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) after June 30, 1998 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to 
the Closing Date if the corresponding application is received by the Bank within four 
months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining 
unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be cancelled; and (b) if, in the Bank’s 
opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, it 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the 
Grant then allocated to another item which in its opinion will not be necessary to 
meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank. Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the Minister of Health or such other person as he or she shall 
have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in support of the 
application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures 
of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the 
first application bearing his or her signature. Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in U.S. dollars currency a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Page  4
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies 
of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part thereof.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
ATTACHMENT TO ANNEX
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
Page  5
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  6
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
