Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4457 KZ
Loan Agreement
(Health Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 20, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4457 KZ 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 6, 1999, from the 
Borrower, outlining the Borrower’s Health of the Nation Program, 1998 (the Program), 
designed to reform and develop the Borrower’s health sector, and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support for the execution of the 
Program through a series of loans up to $162,000,000 over a period of up to eight 
years to assist the Borrower in the implementation of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein and herein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“Annual Work Programs” means the year-specific project work programs and 
budgets adopted by the Borrower and each of the Participating Regions, in accordance 
with Section 3.01(b)(i)(A) of this Agreement and Part B of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(b)
“AR” means the Almaty Region, an administrative sub-division of the 
Borrower and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(c)
“COH” means the Committee of Health established within MHES or any 
successor or successors thereto. 
(d)
“EKR” means the East Kazakhstan Region, an administrative sub-division of 
the Borrower and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(e)
“MHES” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, Education, and Sports or 
any successor or successors thereto. 
(f)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance or any successor or 
successors thereto.
(g)
“Participating Regions” and “Participating Region” mean collectively the 
AR and EKR and individually any one of the said regions.  
(h)
“PCU” means the Borrower’s Project Coordination Unit referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(i)
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in Section 5.01 
(b) of this Agreement, as amended from time to time with the concurrence of the Bank.
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(k)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated December 
21, 1998 and January 5, 1999, between the Bank and the Borrower. 
(l)
“RCUs” means the regional coordinating units referred to in paragraph 2 
of Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
forty-two million five hundred thousand Dollars ($42,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account (Special Account) in a 
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of the said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.  
(iii)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  4
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project through COH, 
Part A of the Project through EKR, and Part B of the Project through AR, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Sub-section (a) hereof, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i)
(A)
for the purpose of carrying out the Project, adopt, and 
ensure that the 
Participating Regions adopt, Annual Work Programs in 
accordance with the 
procedures and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including 
those set forth in Part B 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(B)
for the purpose of carrying out Parts A and B of the 
Project, make 
available to each Participating Region the 
funds, facilities, services, and 
other resources required and appropriate 
under the respective Annual Work 
Program with such Participating 
Region; and 
(ii)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and   
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  5
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project, or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts, and 
report of such audit 
by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and  
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project management report for such period, which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; and 
(ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  6
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report; and 
(ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
that COH has submitted to the Bank a combined evaluation report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of technical assistance to 
PCU for Project management; 
(b)
that MHES has adopted a project implementation manual satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (c) that COH has submitted the draft 1999 Annual Work Programs to the Bank. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
60 Republic Avenue
473000, Astana
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex:
264126 (FILIN)
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By /s/  K. Kusherbayev 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
90%
(a) under Part A of
  3,750,000
the Project
(b) under Part B of
  3,750,000
the Project
(c) under Part C of
    600,000
the Project
(2)
Consultants' services
  4,150,000
100%
(3)
Training
  3,600,000
100%
(4)
Publications
  1,200,000
100%
(5)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
(a) under Part A of
  5,900,000
of local expendi-
the Project
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
(b) under Part B of
  5,800,000
local expenditures
the Project
for other items
procured locally
(c) under Parts C and
  7,300,000
D of the Project
(6)
Incremental operating
  1,200,000
100%
costs
(7)
Refunding of Project
    620,000
Amount due 
under
Page  8
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(8)
Fee
    425,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(9)
Unallocated
  4,205,000
TOTAL
 42,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the project implementing and coordinating agencies on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle 
operation, travel and supervision costs, and consultancy fees but excluding salaries 
of officials of the Borrower; and
(d)
the term “Publications” means training materials, tuberculosis monitoring 
forms, health promotion materials, and print and broadcast media costs. 3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works, under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) goods, under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each; (c) services provided by firms, under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each and services provided by individuals, under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) training and publications, under 
contracts costing less than $10,000 equivalent each; and (e) incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the Program, the objective of which is to achieve a 
sustainable performance-oriented health system, through: (a) modernization and 
improvement of the quality and efficiency of the health care system at the national 
level; and (b) (i) implementation of integrated health reform; (ii) strengthening of 
the quality and cost effectiveness of primary health care; and (iii) improvement of 
financing and management capacity at service delivery level, in the East Kazakhstan 
Region and Almaty Region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
EKR COMPONENT
1.
Primary Health Care (PHC). 
Development of primary health care system through the provision of assistance to 
implement a program for: (a) training general practitioners and upgrading the 
facilities in which they function, providing continuing medical education to upgrade 
skills on a continuous basis and introduction of new concepts of medical care and case 
management, and extension of training to medical staff associated with PHC complexes, 
including nurses, laboratory technicians and feldshers; and (b) upgrading of PHC 
Page  9
facilities through the provision of civil works, supply of pharmaceuticals, medical, 
laboratory and communication equipment, vehicles and development and improvement of 
information systems. 
2.
Financial and Management Strengthening. 
Financial and management strengthening of primary care and secondary or hospital 
care through the provision of technical assistance, training, computers and related 
equipment for management information systems.
3.
Hospital Rationalization and Rehabilitation. 
Undertaking specific rationalization and rehabilitation of hospitals through the 
provision of assistance to: (a) upgrade and provide equipment to district hospitals 
which, by their location, are not subject to inclusion in any hospital consolidation 
program; (b) help develop and evaluate options for consolidating hospital facilities; 
(c) implement and manage the consolidation process; and (d) physically upgrade 
hospital facilities to integrate functions.
PART B:
AR COMPONENT
1.
Primary Health Care (PHC). 
Development of primary health care system through the provision of assistance to 
implement a program for: (a) training general practitioners and upgrading the 
facilities in which they function, providing continuing medical education to upgrade 
skills on a continuous basis and introduction of new concepts of medical care and case 
management, and extension of training to medical staff associated with PHC complexes, 
including nurses, laboratory technicians and feldshers; and (b) upgrading of PHC 
facilities through the provision of civil works, supply of pharmaceuticals, medical 
and laboratory equipment, vehicles and development and improvement of information 
systems. 
2.
Financial and Management Strengthening. 
Financial and management strengthening of primary care and secondary or hospital 
care through the provision of technical assistance, training, computers and related 
equipment for management information systems.   
3.
Hospital Rationalization and Rehabilitation. 
Undertaking specific rationalization and rehabilitation of hospitals through the 
provision of assistance to: (a) upgrade and provide equipment to district hospitals 
which, by their location, are not subject to inclusion in any hospital consolidation 
program; (b) help develop and evaluate options for consolidating hospital facilities; 
(c) implement and manage the consolidation process; and (d) physically upgrade 
hospital facilities to integrate functions. 
PART C:
NATIONAL COMPONENT
1.
Tuberculosis Control.  
Support on a national basis for improved diagnosis and treatment of 
tuberculosis, based on the system for case management recommended by World Health 
Organization (WHO), through the provision of pharmaceuticals, laboratory equipment and 
supplies, vehicles, technical assistance and training.
2.
General Practitioner Training.  
Support of the medical higher education institutions and post-graduate 
institutes in establishing general practitioner training for doctors, and establishing 
training centers, through the provision of civil works, medical, computer and office 
equipment, and vehicles.
3.
Health Promotion.  
Support of health promotion programs including: (a) development, publication and 
Page  10
dissemination of a national health promotion action plan; (b) undertaking of baseline 
and follow-up surveys on healthy lifestyle indicators among adult and children; (c) 
professional development and competence building of health and communication 
professionals; (d) conducting public education and communication campaign using print 
and broadcast media; and (e) development and implementation of national action plans 
on alcohol and tobacco, through the provision of technical assistance, training, 
publications and computer and office equipment. 
4.
Health Policy and Evaluation. 
(a) Review and evaluation of national health policy and regional health 
programs, provision of assistance to disseminate recommendations to various regions, 
and preparation of a proposal for replication throughout the country; (b) training of 
regional and health facility administrators in evaluating and measuring indicators for 
Project evaluation; (c) enhancement of clinical information in Kazakhstan and the use 
of evidence based medicine; (d) provision of recent medical literature and materials 
at selected places; and (e) provision of technical assistance to develop a framework 
for evaluating and updating medical protocols. 
PART D:
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Support for project management, including institutional strengthening of the PCU 
and RCUs through the provision of fees of foreign and local consultants, including for 
provision of external audits, computer and office equipment, vehicles and part of the 
incremental operating costs.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
October 15, 2004
  920,000 
April 15, 2005
  945,000 
October 15, 2005
  970,000 
April 15, 2006
1,000,000 
October 15, 2006
1,025,000 
April 15, 2007
1,055,000 
October 15, 2007
1,085,000 
April 15, 2008
1,115,000 
October 15, 2008
1,150,000 
April 15, 2009
1,180,000 
October 15, 2009
1,215,000 
April 15, 2010
1,250,000 
October 15, 2010
1,285,000 
April 15, 2011
1,320,000 
October 15, 2011
1,355,000 
April 15, 2012
1,395,000 
October 15, 2012
1,435,000 
April 15, 2013
1,475,000 
October 15, 2013
1,515,000 
April 15, 2014
1,560,000 
October 15, 2014
1,605,000 
April 15, 2015
1,650,000 
October 15, 2015
1,695,000 
April 15, 2016
1,745,000 
October 15, 2016
1,795,000 
April 15, 2017
1,845,000 
October 15, 2017
1,895,000 
April 15, 2018
1,950,000 
October 15, 2018
2,005,000 
April 15, 2019
2,065,000
Page  11
_______________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: Preference 
for domestically manufactured goods The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 5 hereof, works estimated to cost less 
than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$4,310,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 hereof, goods estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,610,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 hereof, goods estimated to cost less 
than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,130,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Off-the-shelf medical equipment, training materials and tuberculosis monitoring 
forms may be procured from UNICEF and WHO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement of Minor Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $5,650,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
Page  12
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract under Parts B.1, C.1, C.2 and C.3 hereof, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for civil works, in each of the 
Participating Regions, under Part C.1 hereof and the first two contracts for civil 
works, in each of the Participating Regions, under Part C.5 hereof, or such other 
number of said contracts as may be required by the Bank, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Page  13
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program PART A General
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
develop, adopt and maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall establish and, until the completion of the Project, maintain 
Page  14
a project coordination unit (PCU), regional coordinating units (RCUs) in the 
Participating Regions, and a Technical Evaluation Unit (TEU) and shall ensure that the 
PCU, RCUs and TEU function at all times in a manner and with staffing, funds, 
facilities and other resources satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower agrees that: 
(a)
the PCU shall be headed by a director who shall report to the Deputy 
Chairman of COH and be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project 
activities, including accounting, auditing, procurement, disbursement, consolidation 
of draft Annual Work Programs and budgets, and preparation of progress reports and 
annual reports in respect of or related to the Project; and 
(b)
the RCUs shall be headed by regional coordinators who shall report to the 
deputy head of the regional administration of the Participating Regions. 
4.
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Participating Regions and the Bank, 
prepare and, by July 15, 1999, submit to the Bank an agreed strategic plan for each 
Participating Region for the implementation of Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project which 
shall include specific actions to be taken by the Participating Regions for each year 
of the Project. 
PART B Annual Work Programs
5.
(a)
The following procedures shall apply and be followed in connection with 
Annual Work Programs to be prepared for each calendar year commencing in 2000 during 
which the Participating Regions and the COH shall participate in carrying out Parts A, 
B, C and D of the Project: 
(i)
by June 1 of each year, the RCUs shall prepare proposed Annual 
Work Programs 
for Parts A and B of the Project for the next year 
which shall contain the 
terms and conditions set forth in 
sub-paragraph (b) hereof and shall submit 
such proposed Annual Work 
Programs to the respective administrations of the 
Participating 
Regions; 
(ii)
by June 15 of each year, the Participating Regions shall agree on 
the terms 
and conditions of the proposed Annual Work Program for Parts 
A and B of the 
Project for the next year and shall submit such 
proposed Annual Work Programs 
to the PCU; 
(iii)
by July 15 of each year, the PCU shall prepare proposed Annual 
Work Programs 
for Parts C and D of the Project for the next year 
which shall contain the 
terms and conditions set forth in 
sub-paragraph (b) hereof and consolidate all 
the proposed Annual Work 
Programs, including those submitted to it by the 
Participating 
Regions, and shall submit them to COH and the Bank for review 
and 
comment; and
(iv)
by August 15 of each year, COH, following its review of the 
proposed Annual 
Work Programs and upon the Bank’s review of and no 
objection to such proposed 
Annual Work Programs, and taking into 
account the performance of the 
Participating Regions under the 
preceding Annual Work Programs, shall formally 
adopt the Annual 
Work Programs and shall ensure that the Participating Regions 
formally adopt such Annual Work Programs.
(b)
Each Annual Work Program shall contain such terms and conditions as shall 
be necessary and appropriate for the implementation of Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project by the Participating Regions and the COH, and shall include terms and 
conditions regarding, inter alia: 
(i)
objectives of the Annual Work Program; 
(ii)
activities to be performed under the Annual Work Program to reach 
such objectives; 
Page  15
(iii)
facilities (numbers and description) to be rehabilitated during 
the year, and 
rationalization measures; 
(iv)
budget, including an estimate of the costs necessary to carry out 
the Annual 
Work Program, broken down, for each medical facility to be 
rehabilitated, 
equipment and supplies to be procured during 
the year; 
(v)
financing plan for the activities to be performed under the Annual 
Work 
Program, which describe, inter alia, funds to be contributed 
by the 
Participating Regions for civil works, funds 
to be provided by the Borrower, 
including those provided under the Loan; 
and 
(vi)
criteria for the selection and numbers of staff to be trained 
through study 
tours and fellowships, and estimated costs of such 
activities.
6.
The Borrower shall carry out its Annual Work Program, and cause each of the 
Participating Regions to carry out their respective Annual Work Program, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence acceptable to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.    
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
Page  16
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.   
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  17
