Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6746-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 123.9 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MARCH 19, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 1/31/96)
Currency Unit    =        CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.0          =        CFAF 513
CFAF 1 million   =        US$1949
SDR 1.0          =        US$1.45287
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
AEF          Africa Enterprise Fund
APDF          Africa Project Development Facility
ASAC         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CAA          Caisse Autonome d 'Amortissement
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CCIA         Centre de Commerce International d 'Abidjan
CEPICI       Centre pour la Promotion de l'Investissement en C6te d'Ivoire
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU           European Union
LDP           Letter of Private Sector Development Policy
MTF          Medium-term framework
OIC           Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs
PAGE         Projet d'Appui ai la Gestion Economique (Economic Management Project)
PASCO        Pret d 'Ajustement Sectoriel Competitivite
Regulatory Framework and Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
PASFI        Pret d 'Ajustement du Secteur Financier
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PSA          Private Sector Assessment
PSD-AC       Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
PSP          Privatization Support Project
UEMOA         Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine
West African Economic and Monetary Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, GOVERNMENT POLICIES, AND
BANK  GROUP  ASSISTANCE  STRATEGY  ............................................................. 2
Background and Recent Economic Developments ..................................................2
The Government's Medium-Term Program (1995-97) and C6te d'Ivoire's
Economic Prospects .............................................................4
The Bank Group's Assistance Strategy .............................................................              5
IDA .............................................................5
IFC  and MIGA .............................................................6
Relations with Other Donors .............................................................7
II.    THE PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ..........................................8
Background .............................................................8
Past Private Sector related Adjustment Efforts in C6te d'Ivoire .............................8
The Proposed Reform  Program  ............................................................                    10
A.    Reform  of the Legal and Regulatory Environment ................................................ 12
Reform  of Business Laws and the Judicial System  .............................................. 12
Revision of the Tax System  / Tax Administration Procedures and Penalties ........ 14
Labor Legislation .......................................................                                     15
Trade Liberalization and Internal Competition ...................................................... 16
B.    Reduction of Operating Cost and Improvement of Quality of Service .................. 17
Streamlining of Port and Customs Procedures ...................................................... 18
Telecommunications .......................................................                                    19
Maritime Transport ....................................................... I 9
Maritime Insurance .......................................................                                    21
Road Transport .......................................................                                        21
C.  Investment and Export Promotion .............................                                                     22
Simplification of Investment Procedures .............................                                         22
Export Promotion ... . 22
D.    Increased Private Sector Confidence in the Government ...................................... 23
Settlement of Domestic Arrears .,, 23
Regular Concertation between the Government and the Private Sector .23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



III.                 THE PROPOSED PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT ........... 24
Objectives and Size of the Credit .....................................................                             24
Proposed Tranche Conditionality .....................................................                               24
Conditions for Board Presentation .....................................................                    24
Core Conditions for Tranche Release .....................................................  25
Non-Core Conditions for Tranche Release ................................................ 26
Disbursement, Accounts and Audit .....................................................                              26
Benefits and Risks .....................................................                                            27
Recommendation ......................................................                                               28
Annex A              Poverty and Social Development Indicators
Annex B              Key Economic Indicators
Annex C              Matrix of Actions
Annex D              Letter of Private Sector Development Policy
Annex E              Key Project Processing Dates
Annex F               Status of Bank Group Operations



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Beneficiaries:            Republic of Cote d'Ivoire and Ivorian private sector
Poverty:                  Not applicable.
Amount:                   SDR 123.9 million (US$180 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Project description:      The proposed credit would support the Government's private
sector development program which is designed to increase external
and internal competitiveness and actively promote investment and
exports by achieving a critical mass of meaningful structural im-
provements to the business environment, through (i) reform of the
overall legal and regulatory framework to improve productivity and
reduce business related costs and risks (reform of business laws and
the judicial system; revision of the tax system and of tax administra-
tion procedures; increased flexibility of labor legislation; continua-
tion of trade liberalization and strengthening of internal competition);
(ii) reduction of specific operating costs and delays (port/customs
procedures) and improved quality of the business infrastructure,
mainly in the area of transport and utilities (complete liberalization of
maritime transport, privatization of telecommunications); and
(iii) improved investment and export promotion (simplification of
procedures and private provision of essential business support serv-
ices to enhance their efficiency).
Benefits:                 Successful implementation of the Private Sector Development
Adjustment Program will be critical in creating the environment
conducive to renewed economic growth and increased employment
opportunities. The improvement of the legal and judicial environment
would strengthen the enforceability of contracts and increase investor
confidence. Revision of tax administration procedures and increased
transparency of operations would make C6te d'Ivoire more attractive
as an investment site. Increased flexibility of labor legislation will
help  businesses  and  eventually  broaden  job  opportunities.
Continuation of trade liberalization will spur more competitive
economic growth. The reduction of operating costs and delays (i.e.,



through streamlining of customs procedures and competition in
transport) will substantially improve the profitability of business
operations.  Export promotion by a private export management
organization is expected to help smaller Ivorian exporters gain access
to foreign markets. At the same time. the PSD-AC, together with the
ASAC  and the other programmed sector adjustment operations,
would contribute to the closure of the financing gap in the period
1996-97.
Risks:                      The proposed operation faces the following risks: first, although the
Government may agree to the necessary reforms, some of the
departments in charge of implementation may be reluctant to
relinquish their discretionary power and may therefore stall the
reforms or introduce new restrictive regulations. To counter this risk,
Bank staff and consultants will monitor effective implementation
very closely and carry out performance audits, especially in critical
areas (customs administration, judicial system, ctc.). Second, the
elements of the private sector which have benefited from distortions
are unlikely to support the reform agenda. T o mitigate this risk, Bank
staff   has broadened  and  diversified  interaction with private
stakeholders--beyond official trade associations which usually
represent big firms with special interests--and reached out to SME
representatives who seldom benefit from existing distortions. Finally,
the Government may be under the impression that the sheer
magnitude of its financing gap will warrant the continued financial
support of the international community, with minimal policy actions.
To counter this risk, the proposed operation includes a large number
of upfront conditions (Board presentation) and introduces a critical
mass of reform that would substantially change the way of doing
business in C6te d'lvoire and make backtracking difficult.
Estimated disbursements:   The credit is based on the 'omnibus" (or floating tranche) concept:
the first tranche of US$80 million equivalent would be disbursed
upon effectiveness, whereas the following five tranches of US$20
million equivalent each would be disbursed upon satisfactory
compliance with one core and one non-core condition, in any order.
Two of these floating tranches may be disbursed in the second half of
1996 and the remaining three in 1997, but this timing depends
entirely on government action. Any tranches which have not been
disbursed before March 31, 1998 (closing date) would lapse.
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 123.9 MILLION (US$180 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSD-AC) to the Republic of C6te d'Ivoire for
SDR 123.9 million, the equivalent of US$180 million. The proposed IDA credit would support
the implementation of the Government's adjustment program to create an environment which
would boost private sector development. It would be repayable over 40 years on standard IDA
terms, including 10 years of grace. A separate technical assistance project is under preparation
and is expected to be presented to the Board before the end of FY96.
2.    The proposed credit is the first adjustment operation negotiated with the new Government
appointed in January 1996 which continues to be headed by Mr. Kablan Duncan as Prime
Minister. Mr. Konan Bedie, who finished the five-year presidential term of Mr. Houphouet-
Boigny following his death in December 1993, was elected President in October 1995 and
parliamentary elections were held in November 1995 which gave a clear majority to the
President's party.
3.    Following the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994, C6te d'Ivoire's seven year
recession was reversed and economic growth has accelerated from 1.7 percent in 1994 to about
6.5 percent in 1995. The underpinning of this recovery were the successful pursuit of a prudent
macroeconomic policy, especially in the fiscal area, the implementation of broad based structural
reforms, and the recovery of international prices for cocoa and coffee. The Government's
economic program has received strong donor support. In this context, the Government is
implementing a second year arrangement under the enhanced structural adjustment facility
(ESAF) of the IMF and seeking a series of sector adjustment credits from the Association,
including the proposed PSD.
4.    The improved policy climate has allowed the Bank to completely re-activate its program
with the country, ranging from implementation of the high-case lending scenario spelled out in
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was presented to the Board in June 1994, to
economic and sector work and aid coordination. With regard to its lending program, the Bank
approved credits totaling about US$920 million and disbursed about US$715 million during
1994 and 1995. While the Bank is increasing its investment operations in Cote d'Ivoire, 80
percent of IDA support during this period has been in the form of adjustment credits, including
the supplemental credits under the Fifth Dimension program. The high level of adjustment
lending is related to the country's large financing needs. An update on the status of
implementation of the current CAS will be circulated shortly.



2
PART I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS, GOVERNMENT POLICIES,
AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background and Recent Economic Developments
5.    During the period 1980-93, the Government relied exclusively on internal adjustment
measures to redress the large fiscal and current account imbalances as well as the structural
factors constraining dynamic private sector development and growth. However, this strategy
failed to reverse the economic decline which was particularly evident in the private sector.
Against this background, the Government adopted a medium-term economic framework (MTF)
in the early 1990s which recognized the need to restore international competitiveness. But the
actions carried out under the MTF were insufficient to reduce the overvaluation of the CFA franc
and reverse the recession which actually deepened in 1993.
6.    The 50 percent devaluation in January 1994 was accompanied by a comprehensive
stabilization and structural adjustment program and has shown encouraging results during the
last two years. Inflation was brought under control within months following the parity change,
yielding a change in the price index of 32.5 percent in 1994. The unexpected large increases in
the consumer price index during the first quarter of 1995 were largely due to shortages of some
foods in the domestic market and proved to be of a temporary nature. Monthly price increases
averaged about 0.15 percent during the remainder of the year, thereby yielding inflation of about
8 percent during 1995. The reduction of inflation was largely accomplished through a restrictive
wage policy, by increasing nominal public sector wages less than inflation. As a result, the
Government wage bill has fallen from about 10.7 percent of GDP in 1993 to 7.9 percent in 1994
and to 6.9 percent in 1995. A similar, although less restrictive, policy stance was adopted by the
private sector.
7.    Fiscal policy continues to be the cornerstone of the stabilization program. The
Government met its revenue and expenditure targets in 1994 and 1995, thereby generating
primary balance surpluses in the order of 1.6 and 3.2 percent of GDP respectively. While the
reduction of many taxes (VAT, petroleum taxes, and import tariffs) in early 1994 helped dampen
inflationary pressures, it reduced revenue as a share of GDP and required compensatory measures
in the form of reintroducing export taxes on coffee and cocoa. However, the Government has
since reduced the export tax on these commodities and it is expected that their importance within
the overall government revenue will fall from about 27 percent in 1994-95 to less than 20 percent
in 1996.
8.    The Government has also made significant progress in clearing internal and external
arrears. With regard to its internal arrears, the Government has reduced them from CFAF 227
billion (7.7 percent of GDP) as of end-1993 to about CFAF 112 billion (2.2 percent of GDP) as
of end- 1995, thereby instilling renewed private sector confidence in the Government's commit-
ment to honor its financial obligations. With regard to the external arrears, all bilateral and
multilateral arrears were cleared during the first half of 1994. The external arrears as of end-
1995 which amounted to about US$6.1 billion or about 61 percent of GDP, refer to commercial



3
bank debt which has not been served since mid-1987. Since early 1995, the Government and the
London Club have been working together to first reconcile the debt numbers which was com-
pleted in June 1995, and lay the groundwork for full-scale negotiations in 1996.
9.    Preliminary indicators for 1995 show that the economy continued to strengthen, with real
growth reaching 7 percent. During the first three quarters of 1995, industrial production
increased by 7 percent compared with the same period in 1994. Industrial capacity utilization
increased from 76 percent in 1993 to 79 percent in 1994 and to 85 percent in 1995. The renewed
international competitiveness is reflected in strong export volume growth (about 12 percent in
1995). Due in part to a significant surge in private investment and, hence, demand for capital
goods, imports increased by about 35 percent in volume terms in 1995.
10.   With the successful stabilization effort, the Government has also deepened its structural
adjustment program. Since the devaluation, the Government has implemented key components
of its trade reforms, including a simplification and reduction of import tariffs as well as the
elimination of a series of non-tariff barriers. Moreover, the Government has begun a far-reaching
liberalization process in rice and maritime transport and shown its determination to confront
vested interest groups in order to reduce transaction costs, thereby further increasing the
competitiveness of the Ivorian economy. Other areas of progress included the acceleration of the
privatization program, and the adoption of the new labor code and the new investment code.
11.   While the Government has made progress in implementing key elements of its structural
reform program, the unfinished reform agenda remains considerable in such areas as transport,
finance, and private sector development. In addition, the Government's human resources
development program needs to become more effective. For example, the Government's social
programs, including the many social funds which were created following the devaluation, have
not proven very effective. In summary, although the economic results obtained since the
devaluation confirm that the Government is exploiting the opportunities created by the parity
change, the Government needs to broaden and strengthen its structural reform program to get
back to a sustainable growth path. In this context, the Government will need to overcome
internal opposition from vested interest groups to some of the structural reforms and seek ways
that avoid substantial delays in the reform program that may be caused by the groups opposed to
the reforms.



4
Macroeconomic Indicators, 1990 - 1995
Real Growth Rates (% p.a.)
GDP                                    -2.1       -0.8        0.0        -1.1        1.8        7.0
Per capita GDP                         -5.8       -4.5       -3.8        -4.9       -2.0        3.2
Central Government (% of GDP)
Revenue                                21.5       19.9       20.2        17.6       20.5       21.7
Expenditure                            33.4       32.9       31.9        32.5       30.0       26.8
of which interest                     9.8        10.9       10.4       11.8       11.2         8.3
Primary Balance                        -2.2       -2.1       -1.3        -3.2        1.6        3.2
Overall Balance                       -12.0      -13.0      -11.6       -15.0       -9.5       -5.1
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
Trade Balance (FOB)                    12.0       10.7        9.7         9.7       16.9       14.9
Current Account                       -10.7      -10.8      -11.4        -9.8       -4.4       -4.4
External Debt M% of GDP)
Debt stock 1/                         142.0      157.4       151.2      172.4      225.0      180.0
Arrears 2/                             27.5       36.5       45.3        61.2       80.3       70.0
Prices
Change of CPI (year end) (%)           -0.7        1.6        4.3         0.8       32.5        7.7
RERIndex(1985=100)                    151.8      151.2       163.9      167.0      107.3      117.0
(p)    preliminary
1/    Excludes private non-guaranteed debt
2/    1994 and 1995 figures refer exclusively to arrears to commercial banks
The Government's Medium-Term Program (1995-97) and C6te d'Ivoire's
Economic Prospects
12.    Following the CFA franc devaluation, the Government reformulated its economic and
social program and spelled out its stabilization and structural adjustment program in a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) which is being updated to cover 1996-98. The program targets an
average annual rate of real GDP growth of well over 6.5 percent during 1995-2000, with inflation
declining to around 3 percent. Government expects this growth to be private sector led and
driven by the substantial improvement of the competitive position of the Ivorian economy, an
adequate accumulation of physical capital, an ambitious development of human resources, and
progress towards economic integration within the West African Economic and Monetary Union
(UEMOA).
13.    To achieve these overall growth objectives, the Government is determined to establish
conditions that foster the resumption of private sector investment and growth. The country's
strained budgetary circumstances create a need for the private sector to generate new sources of
capital. Gross investment is targeted to increase from 11 percent of GDP in 1994 to 15 percent
in 1997, of which 10.5 percent would come from the private sector. Fiscal policy is expected to



S
generate revenues sufficient to eliminate domestic payment arrears by end 1996. Measures will
be taken to stabilize the level of overall taxation at about 21 percent of GDP, while improving the
tax system with a view to broadening the tax base and reducing distortions. The restructuring of
public expenditure will continue, reducing the relative share of the wage bill in favor of current
and capital expenditures allocated to high priority sectors (primary health and education). In
addition, the Government will intensify its program of structural reforms aimed at reducing the
size of the public sector while increasing its efficiency, and further liberalizing domestic markets
by opening them to more external and internal competition. The proposed Private Sector
Development operation will set the agenda for part of these reforms and will be on the crucial
path to success of the Government's high growth scenario.
14.  C8te d'Ivoire's financing requirements will remain substantial, in the order of US$3.9
billion in 1996-98. Despite a significant primary budget surplus, the Government will, however,
continue to need concessional budgetary support from bilateral and multilateral sources to close
the financing gap. In this context, IDA, IMF, France and the EU are expected to provide the
necessary budgetary support, provided the reform program, as formulated in the PFP, remains on
track. The country's extremely heavy indebtedness precludes new non-concessional borrowing,
either public or private, to supplement official concessional funds. However, debt relief from the
Paris Club will provide additional financing, while helping improve the country's external debt
profile.
Bank Group's Assistance Strategy
IDA
15.   The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was prepared following the devaluation and
discussed by the Board in June 1994. The CAS supports the Government's objectives of
increasing real GDP growth and strengthening external and internal competitiveness, as
formulated in the 1994 PFP and its update for 1995-97 which was circulated to the Board in
April 1995. Major CAS priorities are to help the Government: (i) maintain macroeconomic
stability and strengthen public sector finances through reforms in both revenue and expenditure;
(ii) promote private sector development through continued liberalization of trade, financial and
labor markets, and through investments in agriculture, industry, and transport; (iii) increase the
effectiveness of the human resources development program through increased focus on primary
health care, AIDS, basic education, and population policy; (iv) strengthen institutional capacity
through existing IDA-supported technical assistance programs; and (v) intensify environmental
work through projects and the National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) process. This strategy
is being implemented as programmed. Staff are preparing an update of the CAS.
16.   The CAS identifies the resolution of the country's substantial public financing
requirements, including heavy debt service obligations, as a critical factor in determining Cote
d'Ivoire's economic prospects. The CAS envisages that the World Bank would help finance the
Government budget through a series of fast-disbursing operations. The proposed PSD credit is
an important element in this financing scenario.



6
17.   In the area of private sector development, the Bank's strategy is largely based on the
findings of a 1994 Bank/IFC Private Sectcr Assessment (PSA) reinforced by the
recommendations of two private sector seminars held in June 1994 and March 1995 in Abidjan.
Structural reforms will be geared towards the removal of remaining regulatory barriers and
market interventions which at present raise transaction costs and hamper C6te d'Ivoire's
competitiveness. By increasing competition and market contestability in the provision of
infrastructure, the ongoing privatization process will improve services (mainly utilities and
transport) while reducing their costs. Financial sector issues will be addressed under a separate
operation.
IFC and MIGA
18.   MIGA. C6te d'Ivoire has been a member of MIGA since 1988 only. MIGA has received
nine preliminary applications for investments in the areas of oil and gas, manufacturing and
financial services. The potential investors are from Canada, France, Switzerland and the United
States, and planned investments total about US$170 million.
19.   IFC has maintained a long-standing relationship with Cote d'Ivoire. It is fairly optimistic
about the country's economic prospects and continues to develop a solid pipeline of projects in
the coming years provided the Government stays the course on the reform program. This
positive stance is reflected in the exceptionally high level of approvals for C6te d'Ivoire during
the past two years--US$96 million. Total portfolio held, as of October 1995, was US$1 18
million, about 71 percent of which were loan investments, and total disbursed portfolio was
US$87 million. The pipeline includes six projects in the agro-industry, tourism and financial
sectors, of which two are through Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF). Africa Project Development
Facility (APDF) is also active with four projects in its pipeline.
20.   In terms of strategy, IFC's efforts in C6te d'Ivoire are three-pronged. First, to support
local entrepreneurs to take advantage of increased viable economic opportunities; second, to help
reestablish C6te d'Ivoire as a safe and attractive place for foreign investment in the region; and
third, to help expand private investment to sectors from which it had hitherto been absent (e.g.,
infrastructure and natural resources). In particular, IFC will emphasize projects intended to:
(i) strengthen the indigenous private sector with special focus on small businesses (through AEF
and APDF); (ii) attract foreign investors to non-traditional sectors (e.g., energy, mining, oil and
gas); (iii) deepen financial markets and broaden/improve the range of financial instruments;
(iv) improve and diversify sources of foreign exchange; and (v) support privatization efforts to
ensure more efficient use of existing assets. To these ends, IFC has financed and will continue to
finance, support, and promote investments of its own account and by other parties in the
following areas:
Manufacturing. Efficient import-substitution and export-based manufacturing projects in both
the fast growing small business sector and the well-established medium and large-sized
companies looking to expand and/or modernize so as to improve their competitiveness.



7
Agro-Industries. The country has a distinct comparative advantage in this sector which offers
potential for profitable export-oriented projects. In particular, IFC will focus mostly on existing
companies with established export markets, interested in expanding capacity, as well as
promising emerging firms. IFC has already participated in the privatization of a 35,000 hectare
rubber plantation (SOGB), the country's largest and reportedly the most efficient in the world,
and hopes to pursue opportunities in palm oil plantations to be privatized shortly.
The Financial Market. The financial market must support the economic turnaround through
sounder and more diverse institutions and a wider range of financial products. IFC will continue
to: (i) assist selected commercial banks and financial institutions willing to extend term finance;
(ii) strengthen its local currency guarantee program for local lenders to improve the mobilization
of local resources to fund the growth of private enterprises; (iii) increase its equity investments
through an equity fund. Together with IDA, IFC will provide technical assistance in establishing
a regional stock exchange in which IFC might become a shareholder.
The Private Financing of Infrastructure and Domestic Natural Resources Projects. IFC will
strive to attract private capital for the financing of viable projects in these sectors. Cote d'Ivoire
has, with IFC's assistance, been at the cutting edge of private infrastructure financing in Africa.
IFC has helped finance the continent's first privately owned power plant (CIPREL), a project
which has revolutionized public infrastructure financing in the country. It has also supported and
mobilized commercial loans for an offshore oil and gas field development (Cl-1) expected to
generate over US$1 billion in additional government revenues and in foreign exchange savings.
Social Sectors. IFC will explore possibilities of financing viable projects in health (e.g.
hospitals), pharmaceutical products (particularly manufacturing and distribution of generic
drugs) and education, provided they make good business sense.
Relations with Other Donors
21.   The major donors in Cote d'Ivoire are France, the World Bank, the African Development
Bank (ADB), and the European Union, with smaller programs from several European countries,
USAID, CIDA, the Japanese Government, and UN agencies. The Bank has organized a
Consultative Group Meeting in June 1995 to coordinate the provision of financial assistance and
reduce the potential for duplication and inconsistencies.
22.   The process of designing and implementing the adjustment programs as well as dealing
with the country's debt servicing difficulties have involved close coordination with France, the
IMF, ADB, and the Paris Club. In particular, Bank staff have worked closely with the IMF to
prepare the annual Policy Framework Papers, the latest update of which covering the period
1996-98 is currently being negotiated. Under the PSD operation, the provisions related to the
payment of domestic arrears have been designed in close coordination with the IMF, France and
the EU, and the IMF has taken the lead in finalizing the strategy with the Government. Close
coordination with the IMF and France has taken place on fiscal issues.



8
23.   France (Ministry of Cooperation) is preparing a Private Sector Assistance program for
1996. The operation will mainly focus on industrial norms and standards, export promotion, and
micro-enterprise credit and will provide funds for studies. The French Government also
provided a customs expert to participate in the port/customs study carried out during the
preparation of the present operation. Close coordination will be sought with the French
authorities to take advantage of synergies and avoid duplication. The Belgian Government and
the African Development Bank are cofinancing an SME support operation. As the policy and
management issues addressed under the proposed adjustment operation are particularly relevant
for SMEs, the task management team will also maintain close coordination with these donors.
PART II.  THE PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Background
24.   The private sector in Cote d'Ivoire accounts for about two-thirds of GDP. Three hundred
large firms produce about 45 percent of the value added of the formal private sector and around
8000 medium and small scale firms account for the remainder'. Employment figures are useful
in putting the size of the different sectors in perspective. While employment in the public sector
grew steadily during the 1980s (around 5 percent per year), employment in the formal private
sector has decreased regularly during the last decade (by 1.25 percent per year) and totals about
230,000 in 1990--less than 5 percent of the economically active population. Modem private
sector employment is mostly concentrated in Abidjan. Before the devaluation, the private
sector's performance in the formal sector had been characterized by declining turnover, falling
profits, a large number of closures, a low level of investments, prevalence of a monopolistic or
oIigopolistic structure in many sectors, and a growing trend towards informalization. Private
investment started to collapse in the early 80s and fell from about 13 percent of GDP in 1980 to
4.5 percent in 1991. Although this situation is principally attributed to the prevailing macro-
economic imbalances (rising government indebtedness and arrears, appreciation of the real
exchange rate since 1985), these factors are only a partial explanation for the lack of
competitiveness of the economy. Recent sector work2 identified the major constraints to private
sector development in C6te d'Ivoire as: (i) the high cost of production (capital goods, utilities,
labor, and financing); (ii) the burdensome institutional and regulatory framework that imposes
excessively high transaction costs on doing business; and (iii) the absence of an appropriate
network of private sector based support services for SME development.
Past Private Sector Related Adjustment Efforts in C6te d'Ivoire
25.   The proposed private sector development program follows several other Bank-financed
operations which addressed private sector development issues: the Regulatory Framework and
I  PSA figures. The formal private sector is defined here as firms filing tax reports.
2   Three surveys of private entrepreneurs were conducted between 1989 and 1992 and a joint IFC/Bank Private Sector
Assessment (PSA) was completed in 1993.



9
Competitiveness Adjustment Credit (PASCO), the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PASFI),
the Privatization Support Project (PSP),. the Economic Management Project (PAGE), and the
recent Economic Recovery Credit (ERC).
26.   Under the PASCO, the Government implemented a series of fiscal, trade, labor and
investment policy reforms during 1992-1994. Specific areas included: (i) rationalization of the
fiscal system through reduction of profit taxes and extension of VAT eligibility, including
reimbursement of VAT credits to exporters; (ii) reform of the customs tariff through a six-rate
tariff structure between 10 and 3 5 percent; (iii) revision of labor legislation (eliminating the state
employment agency's hiring monopoly, restrictive lay-off conditions, and payroll taxes)
culminating in a full-fledged reform of the Labor Code in January 1995; and (iv) a new
Investment Code. The program also laid the groundwork for the liberalization of maritime
transport.
27.   The PASFI aimed at creating essential conditions for private sector recovery by
restructuring the banking and insurance sector and reforming the Abidjan Stock Exchange. The
Privatization Support Project presently assists the Government's divestiture efforts through
general institutional support and consulting services for the preparation and implementation of
privatization plans. The PAGE assists the Government in creating the institutional capacity
necessary for implementation of economic policy measures, including a restructuring of the
parapublic enterprise sector. Under the recent ERC, the Government pursued the agenda of trade
and price liberalization initiated under the PASCO (notably the elimination of remaining non-
tariff barriers by January 1996 and 1997) and agreed to the liberalization of maritime transport
(partial liberalization of bulk and refrigerated cargo as of October 1994 and effective
liberalization of non-conference general cargo as of May 1995).
28.   Two other operations are expected to have a substantial impact on private sector
development and competitiveness: The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC)
approved in September 1995 will deepen reforms in the cocoa and coffee sectors (through
liberalization of internal marketing, the reduction of the Government's role in external marketing
through the implementation of an auction system, and the eventual reduction of export taxation)
and seek full implementation of price and import liberalization in the rice sector by 1997. A
proposed Transport Sector Adjustment Credit will seek to increase the efficiency of transport by
addressing the issues of privatization and competition.
29.   The overall performance record of past adjustment operations has been broadly
satisfactory, although structural reforms which affect the vested interest of entrenched
bureaucracies and monopoly businesses encountered various levels of resistance during
preparation and negotiation and again during implementation. The possibility of post-reform
implementation measures which could dilute or undermine the substance of the reforms must
therefore be carefully monitored. In the area of trade liberalization and elimination of the export
subsidy, it is generally recognized that the overvaluation of the CFA franc before the January
1994 parity change was an important factor in the Government's slow implementation.



10
The Proposed Reform Program
30.   Under the past policy reforms, C6te d'Ivoire has achieved a reasonable level of trade and
price liberalization. Further progress in these areas--or even the sustainability of the present level
of liberalization without policy reversals--will be predicated upon a coherent reform program to
change the high-cost business environment in which Ivorian firms operate. Creating the
conditions for a significant supply response and attracting new investment will require a critical
mass of reforms to reduce the onerous financial and opportunity cost of excessive policy and
administrative regulations, lack of competition, and deficiencies in the legal and judicial
framework. The proposed operation addresses an array of legal, regulatory and institutional
reforms which will systematically reduce transaction and operating costs and the risks associated
with doing business in C6te d'Ivoire.
31.   Partnership with the private sector. Establishing the credibility of the reform program
with the business community was an essential element of project preparation. The proposed PSD
operation pursues the participatory approach initiated under the PASCO with the
Competitiveness Committee. The scope of the operation is mainly based on issues identified and
analyzed jointly by Government and private sector representatives who participated in a series of
workshops and studies. In June 1994, a Bank-sponsored workshop to address the constraints to
private sector development was held as part of the continuing process involving Government and
the private sector to build ownership and consensus for policy reform. At the workshop, seven
public-private sector joint working groups were created and subsequently conducted in-depth
studies on the fiscal system, finance, arrears, competition, legal and judicial system, institutional
issues, medium and long term perspectives. The studies' recommendations were discussed and
adopted at a Private Sector Development Seminar in March 1995 and have been integrated in the
Government's private sector strategy which was announced at the Consultative Group meeting in
June 1995 in Paris. They are reflected in the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy (LDP)
which constitutes the basis for the present operation. A Private Sector Development Committee
chaired by the Prime Minister and comprising the Minister of Industry and Commerce, the
Minister of Economy and Finance, the president of the Conseil National du Patronat Ivoirien
and the president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, will monitor implementation of the
private sector development action plan.
32.   Necessity for a capacity building project. Previous adjustment operations in C6te
d'Ivoire have suffered from a lack of implementation capacity and in one case a technical
assistance project had to be set up halfway through an adjustment operation to avoid stalling the
implementation process. The proposed operation will therefore be complemented by a
TA/capacity building project later in FY96, which will finance studies, training, and initial
support to private providers of business services, as well as IEC activities.
33.   Design of tranches and sequencing. An innovative approach to tranche design and
sequencing is proposed to address C6te d'Ivoire's substantial financing needs, and frequent
resistance to adjustment from vested interests. The tranching conditionality of traditional
adjustment lending often comes up against deadlines where the pressure to disburse increases



II
although important conditions have not been met in full. The operation would introduce the
concept of an "omnibus operation" where the first tranche (US$80 million) would be disbursed
upon credit effectiveness on the basis of reforms already implemented before Board presentation,
and five smaller tranches of US$20 million each would be released as soon as a certain number
of other conditions have been met. Reflecting the reality that some conditions are more
important than others, each tranche release would be triggered by compliance with one core
condition (or a package of related core conditions where it is necessary to ensure coherence
through simultaneous implementation) and one non-core condition, in addition to
demonstrating satisfactory progress in the overall program as put forth in the LDP. The five core
conditions would be: (i) implementation of the action plan for the reform of the legal and
judicial system; (ii) streamlining of the "port/customs" chain (as evidenced by performance
indicators); (iii) privatization of the telecommunications company; (iv) liquidation of the present
government run export promotion agency CCIA (Centre du Commerce International d'Abidjan)
and creation of a privately run export promotion organization; and (v) privatization of the
shippers council. The five non-core conditions would refer to: (i) the reform of tax
administration procedures and penalties; (ii) reform of customs administration regulations and
penalties; (iii) further liberalization of domestic markets and effective functioning of institutions
overseeing competition; (iv) publication of the decrees implementing the Labor Code; and (v)
removal of obligation for importers to underwrite maritime insurance with local companies. The
combination of one core condition and one non-core condition could be met in any order, both
for core and non-core conditions, according to the state of readiness and internalization of the
reform measures. Moreover, no pre-set time lag between tranche releases would be scheduled.
This innovative approach to sequencing would allow the Government more flexibility to control
the pace of tranche releases and thus ensure a continuous positive resource flow.
34.   Scope of Reform Agenda. Reforms and action programs of the present operation are
targeted at increasing external and internal competitiveness and actively promoting investment
and production diversification, by reducing the cost and risk of doing business and creating new
opportunities through reducing entry barriers. They focus on four main areas:
(a)   Further reform of the overall legal and regulatory framework to increase
efficiency and reduce business related costs. This section will address (i) the
reform of business laws and the judicial system; (ii) the revision of the tax system
and of tax administration procedures and penalties; (iii) implementation of labor
legislation; (iv) enhancement of competition in the supply of goods and services.
(b)   Reduction of specific operating costs, and improved quality of the business
infrastructure, mainly in the area of transport and utilities. This section will
address (i) the streamlining of port and customs procedures; (ii) privatization of
telecommunications; and (iii) completion of liberalization of maritime transport
and insurance.
(c)   Investment and export promotion, through private provision of essential
business support services to enhance their efficiency, and simplification of
procedures.



12
(d)   Increased private sector confidence in the Government, through reduction of
domestic arrears and regular concertation between the Government and the private
sector.
35.   The present operation does not include a specific finance component. After the
devaluation, the banking system in Cote d'Ivoire was overliquid, but investment lending has not
increased proportionately to resources. A financial sector operation is envisaged to reinforce the
results obtained under FINSAC I, with the main objective to deepen further the Ivorian financial
sector to facilitate the mobilization of savings and the intermediation of funds.
A.    Reform of the legal and regulatory environment
to increase efficiency and reduce business related costs
36.   An inefficient and burdensome legal and regulatory business environment translates into
explicit or implicit costs for firms that impede their domestic and international competitiveness.
Firms post direct financial losses due to contracts which cannot be enforced; indirectly, bank
losses resulting from an inability to collect collateral on defaulting loans eventually translate into
implicit costs passed on to other borrowers in the form of higher interest rates. Delays also
translate into costs (physical storage cost, financial cost of immobilization of working capital,
opportunity cost of lost business, bribes to speed up transactions). Although a quantification of
these costs is extremely difficult, at the level of a firm and even more so for the economy as a
whole, there is strong evidence that, taken together, they can make the difference between a
profitable or an unprofitable business, and ultimately influence investment decisions.
Reform of business laws and the judicial system
37.   The disfunctioning of the legal and judicial system in C6te d'Ivoire has a major negative
impact on the business environment, and introduces unnecessary risks and costs for the private
sector. This assessment led to the inclusion of a legal and judicial reform component in the IDA-
financed PAGE, in close cooperation with France, the leading donor in this area of reform.
38.   Achieving an efficient and equitable legal and judicial system is a long term process.
One Private Sector Development operation obviously cannot fully address all the issues involved
and result in a complete overhaul of the legal and judicial system. On the other hand, it is urgent
and indispensable to advance the legal and judicial reform agenda in Cote d'Ivoire to improve
the business environment. The present operation therefore pursues a limited but nevertheless
essential set of objectives: to serve as a catalyst and accelerate the reform process; and to focus
on those areas of legal and judicial reform which are especially relevant to the business
environment. The legal and judicial component of the operation will cover three broad areas:
the reform of business laws, the functioning of the judicial system, and out-of-court arbitration.
39.   Reform of business laws. Most basic business laws in Cote d'Ivoire have not been
revised since the colonial period to include recent developments in the business environment.



13
The company law, for example, dates back to 1867. Problems associated with these antiquated
business laws include: low capital requirements for incorporation, laws regulating liquidation
and bankruptcy procedures which provide no scope for restructuring (equivalent to US company
law's Chapter 1 1), and outdated accounting and financial reporting requirements that are
inadequate for modem business analysis and a well functioning stock-market.
40.   The Government, well aware of the adverse effects of these outdated business laws on the
investment and general business climate, agreed in 1993 with 14 other (mostly French-speaking)
African countries to create a regional organization for the reform of the business laws (OHADA)
and adopt uniform laws in the areas of general commercial law, company law, bankruptcy law,
guarantees, procedures for judgment execution, and accounting law. Draft laws have been
extensively discussed by national commissions in each country and adopted by joint sessions of
these national commissions. Following recommendations issued during the preparation of the
project, the composition of the Ivorian commission was enlarged to include private sector
representatives, and a specialized subcommission was created to analyze the proposed
accounting law. Final adoption of the new business laws by the Council of Ministers of OHADA
is expected later in 1996. However, dissemination and internalization are indispensable to ensure
successful implementation of such a far-reaching reform. The TA/capacity building project
which is proposed in parallel to this operation will contribute to this dissemination/internalization
process by financing training, seminars, documentation, etc.
41.   Functioning of the legal and judicial system. The business erivironment in C6te
d'Ivoire suffers not only from the absence of modern business laws, but even more from the
inefficient judicial system. The private sector emphasizes that procedures are slow, judgments
take inordinately long delays to be executed and corruption is rampant in the judiciary, a
situation which is facilitated by the fact that judges who do not state the grounds for a ruling are
not sanctioned and that judgments are not published. Low salaries of judges and their small
number are also factors. There are no specialized commercial courts, and the ordinary courts do
not include judges familiar with business laws. Some progress was made under a French legal
support operation (computerization of procedures in the office of the clerk of court, training of
magistrates, and creation of a computerized legal and judicial information system) and, to a more
limited extent, under the legal and judicial component of the PAGE, but these improvements
have been barely noticed by the private sector so far. Potential investors' perceptions of the
Ivorian legal and judicial system continue to be very negative. The present operation would act
as a catalyst, speed up the reform agenda and focus it on the priorities of the business
community. After adoption of a short-term monitorable action plan (attached to the LDP),
acceptable to IDA, for an in-depth reform of the legal and judicial system (Board condition),
implementation of the action plan (re-activation of the General Inspectorate of Judicial Services,
strengthening of the legislative process, reform of procedures at the office of the Clerk of Court,
improved access to legal information, etc.) will be a core condition for tranche release.
42.   Abidjan Arbitration Court. The present inefficiencies of the judicial system make the
need for decisive short-term actions all the more obvious. In most countries, many business
disputes never reach the courts and are settled through arbitration. The TA/capacity building
project which complements the proposed private sector development operation will therefore



14
contribute to the effective functioning of an arbitration court which was established in December
1995 within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Arbitration rules have already been
drafted and should be completed by conciliation rules. Provided financing is available, the
arbitration court could start to operate during the second semester of 1996.
Revision of the Tax System/Tax Administration Procedures and Penalties
43.   The PASCO (1992-1994) made an important contribution towards the rationalization of
the Ivorian fiscal system (see para. 26). Subsequently, a major overhaul of the property tax
system took place in 1994 and a single tax system (combining profit tax, business tax and VAT)
for small businesses was introduced in 1995. Increasing the attractiveness of C6te d'Ivoire as an
investment site, by reducing overall tax levels further without significant impact on government
revenue, can be achieved only in the medium-term and will require a substantial broadening of
the tax base. In the short term, two essential problem areas remain: (i) inadequate capacity of
the tax administration to modernize the tax system on a regular basis and adapt it to the changing
structure of the economy (e.g. revision of overlapping taxes, taxation of new activities like
leasing etc.), and (ii) non-transparent fiscal procedures, resulting in excess discretionary power of
the tax administration.
44.   Modernization of the Tax Code. Several major features of the Ivorian Tax Code need
revision. There is a fairly large consensus among the tax administration and the business
community that the assessment base of the business tax (patente) partially overlaps with the
property tax base and needs a complete overhaul. The functioning of the ASDI levy (Avance
Sur Divers Imp6ts), which was introduced in 1991 as a withholding tax on all business transac-
tions and targeted at the informal sector, needs to be reassessed. A significant increase in local
private investment will be greatly facilitated by a reform of the investment income taxation
(interest and dividends)3 and taxation of leasing activities.
45.   Tax reform in the above areas needs careful assessment of the budgetary consequences.
The lack of a comprehensive data base in the tax department makes such assessments very
difficult, hence the Government's reluctance to proceed with reforms. Within the present
operation, the Government is committing itself in the LDP to carry on the process of reforming
the business tax. Several detailed studies including recommendations for a reform of the patente
are already available. It is proposed that the Government appoint a coordinator responsible for
discussing the various options with all parties involved (including the municipalities) and carry
out a study on the budgetary impact of these options. As to the ASDI, a study to assess the net
budgetary impact of this tax and its effectiveness by economic sector and type of enterprise will
be carried out in 1996, which could eventually lead to reform proposals. The taxation of
investment income and leasing activities will be addressed under the Financial Sector operation.
The above studies and eventual tax reform proposals will be based on close coordination between
the Government, the IMF, the Bank and France.
3   Upon complaints by an association of small investors, the Abidjan Stock Exchange found out that annual investment
income earned by small portfolio holders had been entirely eaten up by taxes and bank fees.



'5
46.   Revision of Tax Procedures and Penalties. Procedures that govern the respective
obligations and rights of the taxpayer and the tax administration (including auditing of businesses
by the tax administration and penalties for non-compliance with tax obligations) constitute the
main issue of contention between the tax administration and the Ivorian business community.
Relevant procedures are scattered over different vintages of the Tax Code, which lack precision
or contain conflicting provisions. Moreover, the Ivorian Tax Code provides a high degree of
discretionary power to the tax administration. A wide range of possible fines for infringements
are left at the discretion of the tax administration, and inevitably lead to informal "negotiations"
that are detrimental to both the maximization of fiscal revenue and the necessary visibility for
business financial planning. The Ivorian tax legislation also lacks published guidelines and the
recognition of the authority of tax jurisprudence. As a result, a large degree of discretion and
uncertainty prevails in the relationship between the business sector and the tax administration
which is only to some extent alleviated for very large firms which can afford highly specialized
tax advisors.
47.   The proposed operation will require a revision of tax procedures to establish clear rules
governing the respective rights and obligations of taxpayer and tax administration and introduce
pre-set penalties for each type of infringement. The revised procedures will be incorporated, as a
separate section ("book"), in the revision and recodification of the Tax Code which will be
finalized in the second semester of 1996. They will also be published in a readily accessible
form (Taxpayer's Guide), including interpretation guidelines. Publication of the "book" on tax
procedures and penalties in the 1997 budget law will be a non-core tranche release condition,
whereas adoption of the most urgent changes in tax procedures has been included in the 1996
budget law (Board condition).
Labor Legislation
48.   Implementation of the Labor Code. The PASCO made important progress in
introducing more flexibility to the Ivorian labor legislation through elimination of the hiring
monopoly of the state employment agency, OMOCI, easing of lay-off restrictions, and use of
temporary labor. In June 1994, a new Labor Code was adopted by the Council of Ministers as
part of the PASCO second tranche conditionality. This code was voted into law by the National
Assembly in January 1995, but has still not become operational in the absence of implementation
decrees.
49.   Private Recruitment Agencies. The operation of private recruitment agencies was
authorized simultaneously with the elimination of the government recruitment agency OMOCI.
The recent PASCO implementation completion report flagged that operating conditions for these
agencies are very restrictive. Operating licenses are granted for one year only, and renewal is
subject to non-transparent criteria. This unstable environment for private recruitment agencies is
not conducive to the development of a flexible labor market. Moreover, the new government
agency AGEPE, which replaced OMOCI with new responsibilities, is in charge of granting
permits and operates simultaneously as a recruitment agency itself.



16
50.   Temporary Job Agencies. Temporary employment is an important element of a flexible
labor market both as an outlet for the large number ofjobseekers, and for businesses seeking to
take advantage of market opportunities without incurring the liabilities associated with recruiting
new permanent staff. Temporary employment is authorized under the new Labor Code, subject
to provisions to be issued by decree. However, no such regulation of temporary job agencies has
been issued or implemented so far. The few existing agencies are operating in a legal gray zone
and could be closed down for absence of a business license.
51.   The proposed operation calls for the long overdue publication of these and other
implementation decrees for the Labor Code. At least five of the implementation decrees,
including the decrees on private recruitment and temporary job agencies, have been signed as a
Board condition. Publication of the complete set of 21 implementation decrees will be a non-
core tranche release condition.
Trade liberalization and internal competition
52.   Trade Liberalization. Important progress was achieved during the PASCO and pursued
under the ERC. Remaining non-tariff barriers on several agricultural products (tobacco, coffee,
wheat, flour, jute bags and sugar) have been or will be lifted under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (ASAC), and will be followed by the elimination of price controls on the
same products. In the case of jute bags, the removal of NTBs was accompanied by the
introduction of a compensatory duty to preclude imports at the loWer world price set by
Bangladesh. Countervailing duties on other products are presently under consideration. These
practices make removal of certain NTBs irrelevant, are anti-competitive and introduce an
unnecessary cost for local users (in the case of jute bags, they deprive local coffee and cocoa
farmers of potential higher income through savings on the price of bags). Effective market
liberalization will be sought for all products for which NTBs have been officially removed. Cote
d'Ivoire has committed in the LDP to abide by WTO rules as a basis for establishing
compensatory duties in cases of dumping or producer country subsidies. Adoption or change of
existing levels of compensatory duties on agricultural products will have to be satisfactory to the
Association under the ASAC second tranche conditionality.
53.   Complementing the PASCO Tariff Reforms. In 1993/1994, the Government
successfully implemented a far-reaching tariff reform comprising a rate structure between 10 and
35 percent. However, exemptions in favor of assembly industries were maintained and
eventually formalized in the tariff structure. Granting assembly industries a special status
distorts the incentive structure and sends a signal to invest in industries in which the country may
have no comparative advantage. Moreover it opens the door for further lobbying and exemptions
for other industries, entailing a negative impact on Government revenue. The elimination of
these exemptions will be implemented in two steps: a first tariff revision has been included in
the 1996 Budget Law (Board condition), and the second revision is scheduled for the 1997
Budget Law (non-core tranche release condition).
54.   Continued liberalization of production activities and domestic marketing. Despite
the publication of a Competition Law in 1991, barriers to entry subsist in several sectors.



17
Following the recommendations of a report on the status of competition, the proposed operation
would seek to liberalize production and domestic marketing for a series of goods and services.
Publication of texts for the liberalization of a first set of activities (including local sale of rice and
cement, opening of bakeries and import of used vehicles) is a Board condition. Liberalization of
a second set of at least three more activities as outlined in the LDP will constitute a non-core
tranche release condition.
55.   Reform of the agencies in charge of enforcement of competition policy. In a
liberalized economic environment, enforcement of competition legislation becomes crucial, as
compared to a state controlled economy. The present provisions governing agencies in charge of
the enforcement of competition are unsatisfactory in C6te d'Ivoire. A department of the Ministry
of Commerce (Direction de la Concurrence) instructs cases of violation of competition rules,
which are then brought before a Competition Committee (Commission de la Concurrence)
whose ruling is non-binding for the final decision of the Minister of Commerce. The present
operation would seek significant changes in the composition, responsibilities, and operation of
the Competition Committee: increase in the number of members of the Committee from seven to
nine, of which at least four from the private sector; adequate compensation for members'
services; possibility for individual firms to submit any competition matter directly to the
Committee, without going through trade associations. It would also strengthen the Committee's
cooperation with the relevant Government department (Direction de la Concurrence), in order to
make enforcement of competition more effective (non-core condition for tranche release).
56.   Access to Accountant Services of International Quality. Attracting foreign investment
to Cote d'Ivoire and establishing a regional stock exchange in Abidjan will be dependent in part
upon investors' confidence in the accounting standards applicable in C6te d'Ivoire and the
reliability of auditors' reports. This will require the availability of internationally respected
accounting and auditing firms and eventually adoption of international accounting standards
(IASC). However, current regulations in C6te d'Ivoire (a 1992 law imposing mandatory local
ownership of 75 percent of equity and other restrictions) are counter-productive in this respect.
There is a risk that protection of Ivorian accountants from international competition will foster a
second-class accounting environment in a country which has the potential and objective to
become a regional center of excellence.
57.   Some progress has been made through the "grandfathering" of existing accounting firms
and through assurance of access for UEMOA nationals. The Government has also agreed to
define clearly the conditions for equivalency of the CPA diploma, as part of a non-core tranche
release condition. Further liberalization of access to the profession will be taken up under the
Financial Sector operation.
B.    Reduction of Operating Costs and Improvement of Quality of Service
58.   Competitiveness is not only affected by the overall legal and regulatory environment, but
more specifically by the level of operating costs and related transactions costs. Quality of service
and timeliness of delivery are also important factors. Streamlining of port and customs



18
procedures is expected to have a sizable impact on competitiveness. Moreover, essential
business infrastructure operates under monopolistic conditions and/or heavy state intervention.
Three areas: telecommunications, maritime transport and insurance, and road transport need
urgent reform to reduce costs for businesses and improve the quality of service.
Streamlining of port and customs procedures
59.   Approximately 85 - 90 percent of Ivorian foreign trade transits through the Abidjan Port,
with the much smaller San Pedro Port, road and air transport accounting for the remainder. The
Abidjan Port therefore constitutes a vital artery of the Ivorian economy. Although the physical
infrastructure of the Port is adequate and well managed, administrative inefficiencies result in
excessive delays and represent a high cost for importers and exporters (employee time and
"incentives" necessary to speed up clearance and delivery of merchandise, financial cost incurred
through prolonged storage of goods, etc.). Significant reduction of clearance and delivery time
with parallel cost reduction is a realistic objective and will require the following key actions:
Port: The Port Competitiveness Committee, including representatives of the Port Authorities,
government departments port operators and users, was created and will be consulted prior to
important management and investment decisions (Board condition). The efficiency of the
operations of the Abidjan Port will have to be substantially increased. Specific performance
indicators have been agreed upon with the port authorities: (a) the overall availability of the two
loading/unloading cranes will have to be brought to 90 percent, by reducing idle and repair time;
(b) the number of containers unloaded per hour will be increased from 12.4 (in 1994) to 16; and
(c) the average duration of stay for containers in the port will be reduced from 16 to 7 days for
imports, and from 8 to 3 days for exports for a continuous period of at least six months. The
latter period includes customs clearance and will be a core condition for tranche release.
Preshipment Inspection: In order to take full advantage of the preshipment inspection program
(the cost of which is borne by importers at 0.95 percent of the CIF value of merchandise) and
maximize the impact on customs revenue, the exchange of information between the customs
department and the preshipment company SGS will be improved and weekly reconciliation
meetings will take place.
Customs: Modernization of customs procedures is absolutely crucial for streamlining clearance
and delivery times. The Abidjan Port already operates at full capacity and continuation of the
present customs control system (all containers are lined up for several days in a special area
awaiting control, but eventually only a small fraction are actually opened and inspected) risks to
create further congestion within the port area and to increase transit delays to insupportable
levels. Under the reform to be introduced within this operation, the customs administration will
switch to the concept of risk management, which consists of subjecting a predetermined
percentage (e.g. 20 percent) of shipments to a combination of random and selectively targeted
controls ("red circuit"). The confidential selection criteria are based on risk profiles, such as
origin, nature of merchandise, and case history of importer, and are frequently changed to
prevent defensive responses by importers. All other shipments will be processed in the "green
circuit", consisting of document control only. Additional acceleration of clearance times will



19
result from the elimination of many manual procedures for which an in-depth study revealed that
they serve no discernible purpose other than providing opportunities for "transaction costs". The
average target performance for merchandise cleared in the "green circuit" will be 24 hours,
versus 48 hours in the "red circuit", for a continuous period of six months.
60.   A pro-active export promotion strategy requires that the existing temporary admission
system be simplified for a limited number of major exporters (e.g. cumulative declarations every
ten days for large exporters). In order to minimize possible revenue losses, access to this special
regime will be granted by the customs department according to strict, transparent criteria.
61.   Overall, transparency in administrative regulations and penalties is essential in creating a
secure business environment. Clear regulations for intervention of the Customs Administration
will be established by law (reform of the Customs Code) and published in a Users' Guide (non-
core tranche release condition). Implementation of the action plan described in paras. 59 and 60
and compliance with specific performance criteria for port transit and customs clearance will be a
core condition for tranche release. At the end of 1996, the introduction of an electronic data
exchange network between the pre-shipment inspection company, port and customs authorities,
shippers and forwarding agents will further enhance the efficiency of operations by reducing
time, errors4 and "transaction costs" involved in the production of repetitive documents followed
by manual handling and clearance. The proposed technical assistance project which will be
implemented in parallel to the present operation will provide partial finance for this network.
Telecommunications
62.   Cost, access to and reliability of telecommunications are very important for businesses
and can make all the difference in obtaining an order or marketing a new product. In C6te
d'Ivoire, the telecommunications company is a parastatal monopoly. Extensive studies on the
reform of the sector were carried out and the Government is now committed to proceed with the
privatization of CI-TELCOM. The Bank supports C6te d'Ivoire's privatization process through
the Privatization Support Project. Adoption of a telecommunications law allowing competition
for basic services and creation of an independent regulatory body in 1995 have set the pre-
conditions for the privatization of the telecommunications company. Effective transfer of a
controlling interest of CI-TELCOM to a private investor or a consortium of private investors
(i.e., sale of at least 51 percent of the voting stock of the company) will be a core tranche release
condition.
Maritime Transport
63.   Maritime Transport. In the past, restrictive practices in favor of the state-owned
shipping line SITRAM have involved considerable costs and poor service for Ivorian exporters
and importers. A study produced under the PASCO documented the high costs of the shipping
monopoly as compared to free market freight rates and concluded that at least partial
4  A study shows that the same data is included or copied on 24 different forms.



20
liberalization was desirable. An exceptional authorization granted to the banana-pineapple
exporters association in 1993 and 1994 to charter its own vessels on one of the two major routes
5
immediately resulted in a significantly lower freight rate5.
64.   Under the ERC, partial liberalization (50 percent) of specialized (bulk and refrigerated)
traffic took place in October 1994, as a transition to full liberalization, and the mandatory OIC
(Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs) visa for loading general merchandise to and from C6te d'Ivoire
was abolished in April 1995, resulting in defacto liberalization of general cargo. However,
satisfactory implementation provisions for both types of traffic, indispensable if the economy
was to fully benefit from the liberalization measures, had not been taken by the Government.
65.   A new situation was created by the liquidation of SITRAM in May 1995 and the creation
of a private majority carrier in October 1995. The Government intended to transfer to this new
private shipping line (COMARCO) the traffic rights to 50 percent pertaining to bulk and
refrigerated traffic granted to the ex-SITRAM. However, it was established that out of seven
product categories which fall under the definition of "bulk and refrigerated traffic", only four
(banana, pineapple and palm oil exports, and bulk wine imports), had actually been carried in
vessels owned or chartered by the ex-SITRAM. For wheat and clinker, the company had been
content with claiming "royalties" from importers without supplying any service. No traffic
sharing arrangement or payment of "royalties" had been enforced on petroleum imports. The
following three measures are deemed indispensable to ensure to private sector operators the full
benefits of liberalization of maritime transport (Board presentation conditions):
(a)   Full liberalization of bulk and refrigerated traffic as of January 1997. However,
during a transition period extending until the end of December 1996, the newly
created national carrier COMARCO and other Ivorian shipping lines will continue
to benefit from a reservation of 50 percent of bulk and refrigerated traffic for
bananas, pineapples, palm oil, and wine. Freight rates will have to be negotiated
by both parties, with arbitration by the Chamber of Commerce in case of
disagreement.
(b)   As an implementation measure of the April 1995 decree eliminating the OIC visa,
an arrete requires shipping lines and importers/exporters to supply statistical
information not redundant with existing information sources.
(c)   Transparent criteria have been set out for chartering vessels. At present this
decision is discretionary. The possibility of chartering vessels on their own
protects major exporters and importers against anti-competitive practices by
established shipping lines.
66.   The shippers council OIC (Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs), theoretically a trade
association set up to defend the interests of the shippers (i.e., mostly the exporters), had for all
5   Annual savings amounted to over US$3 million and would have equaled US$6.5 million had both routes been liberalized
simultaneously.



21
practical purposes been transformed into a Government agency in charge of freight allocation,
reserving 40 percent to national shipping lines. This function became irrelevant after the de facto
liberalization of general cargo. The OIC will therefore return to its initial role of defending
shippers' interests, supplying services like the use of OIC-owned bonded warehouses, possibly
participating in the establishment of a guarantee fund for interregional road transport under
customs bonds, etc. By statute, no regulatory or other Government agency functions will be
carried out by the new organization. Transfer of a majority equity share (at least 65 percent) to
the private sector (shippers)--while ensuring that small shippers are equitably represented--is a
core tranche release condition.
Maritime insurance
67.   Another aggravating cost factor for importers is maritime insurance. Law no. 86-485 and
Decree no. 86-486 of 1986 mandate that all freight to Cote d'Ivoire has to be insured with an
Ivorian insurance company. For foreign exporters who do business on a CIF basis or have global
insurance coverage for freight to be unloaded in several West African ports, this restriction
amounts to buying insurance twice, adding to the cost of maritime transport. In many cases,
insurance is bought by importers once the merchandise has already arrived, in order to satisfy
local requirements, thus creating a pure rent situation for Ivorian insurance companies without
any risk or service. Revision of this cumbersome requirement through the publication of a
modifying law and decree will be a non-core condition for tranche release.
Road Transport
68.   In the past, road transport was governed by a system of freight allocations to truckers,
managed on a rotational basis by a statutory body (Bourse du Fret). This system was anti-
competitive and tended to drive up transport costs by permitting inefficient truckers to stay in
business. A recent reform transferred the former powers of the Bourse du Fret to OIC, the
Government-dominated shippers' council, which was expected to issue mandatory bills of lading
(lettres de voiture) to transporters for national and international freight. This system would have
been extremely cumbersome, imposing an unnecessary burden on transporters, and open to
corruption as Government issued bills of lading are easily transformed into a freight allocation
mechanism. Moreover it would have been incompatible with the new role of the OIC as a trade
association representing the interests of the shippers, thereby abandoning its role as a
Government regulatory body. During negotiations, it was agreed to pursue discussions on the
feasibility and advisability of a domestic road transport document of a commercial nature under
the proposed Transport Sector Adjustment operation, along with the necessary harmonization of
international transport documentation with present customs transit procedures.



22
C.  Investment and Export Promotion
Private Provision of Business Support Services
Simplification of Investment Procedures
69.   After adoption of a new Investment Code in 1995, a one-stop-window "Centre pour la
Promotion de l'Investissement en C6te d'Ivoire " (CEPICI) has been established to centralize
procedures in one location and promote investment in general. However, procedures have not
been simplified in the areas of tax, customs, commerce, employment, labor inspection, company
registration, and social security. Consequently, the Center has to dispatch documents to the
various Government departments, thereby running the risk of becoming a "one-more-stop
window", a situation common in other countries where no simultaneous streamlining of
procedures took place.
70.   Under the proposed operation, the Government has agreed in an annex to the LDP to an
action plan for streamlining procedures, by eliminating or merging registration requirements with
different Government departments. It is proposed that implementation of this action plan will be
financed jointly by CMte d'Ivoire and the parallel TA/capacity building project.
Export Promotion
71.   A recent study has identified the main obstacles for Ivorian exporters as: monopolistic
practices in sea and air transport with significant cost and quality implications, high cost of
export pre-financing and absence of export guarantees for regional markets, complexity and
delays in foreign exchange and customs procedures, cumbersome implementation of customs
export regimes (temporary admission, draw back, etc.), lack of information on and access to
foreign markets. Several of these issues are already addressed under other components of this
operation, such as streamlining of port/ customs procedures, restrictive practices in maritime
transport, etc. But the issue of specific assistance to SMEs in penetrating foreign markets has to
be addressed separately.
72.   Export Promotion Organization. The proposed PSD operation will constitute a catalyst
for the Government to develop a coordinated export promotion strategy. Under this approach,
the Government will liquidate the inefficient government agency in charge of export promotion,
the Centre de Commerce International d'Abidjan (CCIA). A new export promotion organization
will be placed under professional private management and its board will comprise a majority of
private sector representatives (exporters' associations or individual exporters) who will
determine the nature and quality of services that the participating exporters expect, including
active marketing of Ivorian products on foreign markets. The organization is expected to operate
on partial, but gradually increasing cost recovery basis. Initial funding (including test export
marketing programs conducted under the responsibility of the new management by specialized
sub-contracting firms) will be provided by the parallel TA/capacity building project and other
external sources. Government financing will cover aspects which are considered public service
requirements like access to trade information (trade point system) and participation in trade fairs.
Fulfillment of the key steps in the liquidation of the CCIA (publication of the liquidation decree



23
and appointment of the liquidator, ceasing of operations and reduction of staff to levels
indispensable for the liquidation) and the creation of a privately run export promotion
organization with at least 65 percent of its voting rights to be held by the private sector will be a
core tranche release condition.
D.   Increased Private Sector Confidence in the Government
73.   The joint Bank/IFC private sector assessment completed in 1994 identified the lack of
confidence of the private sector in the Government's commitment to economic reform as the
most important impediment to investment. Among the factors responsible for this mistrust are
the obvious lack of dialogue between the Government and the private sector and the
Government's lack of fiscal discipline which has resulted in the past in the accumulation of huge
domestic arrears. As a general underlying premise for establishing a better business climate in
C6te d'Ivoire, the program will seek a permanent framework for concertation between the
Government and the private sector. The Government has also committed itself to settling
existing arrears and not to incur new arrears.
Settlement of Domestic Arrears owed to the Private Sector
74.   The persistence of large domestic arrears is one of the most important contentious issues.
It erodes private sector confidence in the Government's ability to maintain fiscal discipline and
curtails the capacity of large segments of the private sector to free up equity resources for
investment and working capital. As part of the updated policy framework for 1995-97, the
Government has committed to repay the non-consolidated arrears over a two year period (1995-
1996), and succeeded in reducing the stock of internal arrears from 8.6 percent of GDP to 2.5
percent between December 1993 and December 1995. Under a repayment plan announced in
May 1995, the remaining arrears will be eliminated by end of 1996, with payments sequenced
according to a quarterly schedule. The elimination of domestic arrears over the two-year period
constitutes a performance criterion under the IMF program. The present PSD adjustment credit
would monitor the Government's compliance and its commitment not to incur new arrears
towards the private sector. Satisfactory compliance would constitute a general condition for
disbursement of all tranche releases after the first tranche.
Regular Concertation between the Government and the Private Sector
75.   A Comite de Liaison Secteur Public/Secteur Prive has existed since 1991, but the private
sector contended that the Government called meetings only in crisis situations and took unilateral
action without a real dialogue and did not even inform the private sector of the reasons for its
decisions. Under the preparation process of the present operation, a Private Sector Development
Committee chaired by the Prime Minister and comprising the Minister of Industry and
Commerce, the Minister of Economy and Finance, the President of the Conseil National du
Patronat Ivoirien and the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry was created to
arbitrate in important matters and ensure enforceability of decisions relating to technical
ministries. The Comite de Liaison has been revived under more operational arrangements, and
resorts to smaller subcommittees for specific agenda items. The present cellule technique would



24
act as a permanent secretariat or bureau for the larger Comite de Liaison, prepare the agenda,
carry out studies, and follow up closely on the implementation of the present operation.
Satisfactory provisions in this regard will be crucial for the success of the program.
PART III. THE PROPOSED PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
Objectives and Size of the Credit
76.   With the proposed PSD operation, the Bank would support implementation of the
Government's adjustment program as described in the PFP and in the LDP, and provide critical
balance of payment support. The proposed credit would concentrate on the most important areas
of reform as described in Part II. The proposed amount of the credit is US$180 million
equivalent. Considering the lessons learned from prior adjustment operations where compliance
with Board presentation, credit effectiveness and tranche release conditions was often impeded
by the unavailability of funds to carry out necessary preparation studies and Government's lack
of implementation capacity, it is proposed to complement the adjustment credit with a separate
technical assistance/capacity building project, to be presented to the Board later in FY96.
Proposed Tranche Conditionality
77.   To ensure full implementation of the reform measures, tranche release will be governed
by the "omnibus" concept (paragraph 33). A first tranche of US$80 million would be disbursed
upon effectiveness, and the remainder in five installments of US$20 million each, expected to
spread over 1996/97. Tranches not disbursed by March 31, 1998 would lapse. Each tranche
release will require the fulfillment of one core condition (or a package of related core conditions)
and one non-core condition (or a package of related non-core conditions). Core and non-core
conditions could be combined in any sequence. This tranche release design would allow
maximum flexibility while achieving a critical mass of coherent reform measures in addition to
the monitorable actions specified below (see matrix of actions, Annex C). All tranche releases
would be contingent upon the maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic framework, to be
supported by an IMF ESAF program, satisfactory performance in overall program
implementation consistent with the LDP (see Annex D), and compliance with the internal arrears
reduction program and non-incurrence of new arrears.
78.   The following actions were taken before Board presentation:
(i)   Legal and Judicial Reform: Adoption of an action plan by the Council of
Ministers to reform the judicial system, including necessary budgetary
inscriptions for implementation of the first phase in FY96 (para. 41).
(ii)  Reform of tax procedures and penalties: Inclusion of a first set of revisions in the
1996 Budget Law (para. 47).



25
(iii)   Labor Legislation: Signature of a first series (minimum of five) of Labor Code
implementation decrees, including those on private recruitment and temporary job
agencies (para. 51).
(iv)   Trade liberalization and competition policy:
Further liberalization of production activities and local marketing:
Publication of texts pertaining to first phase of program (para. 54).
Tariffs: Elimination in Budget Law 1996 of exemptions for certain assembly
industries (para. 53).
(v)   Streamlining of Port/Customs Chain: Creation of a Port Competitiveness
Committee which will be consulted prior to important management and
investment decisions (para. 59).
Implementation of first phase of customs reform action plan described in the LDP
(paras. 59 and 60) as evidenced by transmission of status report.
(vi)   Maritime Transport:
Decree liberalizing bulk and refrigerated traffic as of January 1997 (para. 65(a)).
In the area of general cargo, implementation arrete regarding maritime traffic
organization in Cote d'Ivoire (statistical reporting requirements, etc., para. 65(b)).
Decree establishing transparent criteria for chartering ships (para. 65(c)).
79.   Each of the five subsequent tranche releases will be conditional upon fulfillment of a
combination of one core and one non-core condition:
Core Conditions (in any order):
(i)    Legal and Judicial Reform: Implementation of a short-term action plan attached
to the LDP (para. 41).
(ii)   Streamlining of Port/Customs chain:
(a) Compliance with specific performance criteria for Port operations (para. 59).
(b) Full implementation of action plan described in the LDP, as evidenced by
compliance with specific performance criteria and simplification of temporary
admission procedures for qualified exporters (paras. 59-61).
(iii) Export promotion: Liquidation of Government export promotion agency CCIA.
Creation of a privately managed export promotion organization with at least 65
percent of the voting rights held by the private sector (para. 72).
(iv)   Telecommunications: Sale of at least 51 percent of the voting stock of CI-
TELCOM to a private sector investor or consortium (para. 62).
(v)   Shippers' Council: Privatization of OIC so that Government and public sector
entities hold no more than 35 percent of the equity (para. 66).



26
Non-Core Conditions (in anv order)
(i)    Reform of tax procedures and penalties: Incorporation of comprehensive reform
in Budget Law 1997 (para. 47).
(ii)   Reform of customs regulations and penalties: Incorporation of reform of Customs
Code in Budget Law 1997 and publication of a "Users' Guide for customs
regulations" (para. 61).
Second step of revision of tariff structure for assembly industries (para. 53).
(iii)  Labor legislation: Publication of remaining implementation decrees of Labor
Code (para. 51).
(iv)   Competition policy: Publication of a decree restructuring the Competition
Commission (Commission de la Concurrence) to include nine members, of which
four from the private sector. Modification of competition law to allow direct
appeal procedure to the Commission by individual firms (para. 55).
Continuation of liberalization of production activities and domestic marketing:
Publication of relevant decrees/arretes for liberalization of at least three activities
(para. 54).
Definition of conditions for equivalency between diploma of CPA and Ivorian
diploma "expert-comptable" practice (para. 57).
(v)   Maritime insurance: Repeal of relevant provisions of Law no. 86-485 and Decree
86-486 on mandatory maritime insurance of imports in country of destination and
publication of modifying Law and Decree (para. 67).
80.   For each tranche release, C6te d'Ivoire will have been in compliance with the IMF
program on resorption of domestic arrears at the most recent quarter-end benchmark, and no new
arrears will be incurred during the duration of the program.
Disbursement, Accounts and Audit
81.   Disbursement. The Borrower will open an account in its central bank. Upon Bank
notification of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by the
Association in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-
member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative list), the Association will require
the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b)
refund the amount directly to the Association, in which case the Association will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit.



27
82.   Accounts and Audit. Although routine audit of the account will not be required, the
Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the account from time to time.
Benefits and Risks
83.   Successful implementation of the proposed Private Sector Adjustment program will be a
critical condition for renewed private sector and overall economic growth and increased em-
ployment opportunities. The program seeks to fundamentally change the model of state-led
economic development pursued by C6te d'Ivoire in the past by reducing the role of the Govern-
ment and strengthening the private sector. The improvement of the legal and judicial environ-
ment would strengthen the enforceability of contracts and boost investor confidence. Increased
flexibility of labor legislation and transparency of tax administration procedures will make C6te
d'Ivoire more attractive as an investment site. The reduction of operating costs and delays will
substantially improve the profitability of business operations and hence impact future investment
decisions.
84.   The proposed operation faces the risk of uneven implementation, including backtracking
in some areas. First, although the Government may agree to the necessary reforms, the
departments in charge of implementation will be reluctant to relinquish their discretionary power
and may therefore stall the reforms or introduce new restrictive regulations. To counter this risk,
Bank staff and consultants will monitor effective implementation very closely and carry out
performance audits (customs administration, judicial system, etc.). Quantitative indicators have
been developed in several areas and close cooperation with the private sector during supervision
mission will help identify implementation problems. In the critical area of maritime transport,
refraining--after Board presentation--from any measures substantially and adversely affecting full
liberalization will be closely monitored. Second, the elements of the private sector which have
previously benefited from rents and lack of transparency will stand to loose and will not support
the reform agenda vigorously enough; to mitigate this risk, Bank staff has broadened and
diversified interaction with private stakeholders--beyond official trade associations which usually
represent big firms with special interests--and reached out to SME representatives who do not
benefit from rents. Moreover, it has to be recognized that the more dynamic segment among
former rent-seeking firms now realize that while Government protection and special privileges
could make a difference on the small domestic market, they are of no use in international
competition, whereas an inefficient business environment and high transaction costs constitute an
almost insurmountable impediment. Finally, the Government may be under the mistaken
impression that the sheer magnitude of its debt problem will warrant the continued financial
support of the international community, with minimal policy actions. To counter this risk, the
present operation includes a large number of upfront conditions (Board presentation), introducing
a critical mass of reform that would drastically change the way of doing business in Cote
d'Ivoire.



28
85.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Gautam Kaji
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 19, 1996



29
AneA
Page 1 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire
Most          Sawn region/hncome growp                Nex
Latest single year           recent                Sub-          Lowver-          higher
Unit of                                            estimate           Saharan          Mie-             a
Indicator                                 Measure             1970-75         1980-85         1987-92              Africu          Income           group
Resources and Expenditures
Human Resources
Population (mre=1992                     thousands                  6,755           9,936           12,886         546,390         942,547         477,960
Age dependency ratio                       ratio                     1.00            1.00             1.01            0.95            0.66            0.64
Urban                                     %of pop.                   32.1            37.6            41.7             29.5            57.0            71.7
Population growth rate                    annual %                      4             3.8             3.6              2.9             1.4             1.6
Urban                                       "                        7.0             3.7             5.2              5.1             4.8             2.5
Labor force (15-64)                      thousands                  3,153           4,053           4,840         224,025                -         181,414
Agriculture                            % of labor force                71              65               -                -               -               -
Industry                                     "                          7               8               *                -               *
Female                                       "                         37              35              34              37              36               29
Females per 100 males
Urban                                    nunber                       76               -
Rural                                                                103               -                                -               -
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                    thou.sq. km                322.46          322.46          322.46        24,274.03       40,697.37       21,S36.02
Density                                pop. per sq. km               21.0            30.8            38.5             21.9            22.S            21.5
Agricultural land                       % of land area               50.1            52.1            52.5             52.7               -            41.7
Change in agricultural land               annual %                    0.3             0.6             0.0              0.1               -             0.3
Agricultural land under irrigation           %                        0.2             0.3              0.4             0.8                             9.3
Forests and woodland                    thou. sq. km                  III              86              71                -
Deforestation (net)                       annual %                      -               -              1.0
INCOME
Household Income
Share of top 20% of households         % of income                    50              61              42
Share of bottom 40% of households           "                         20              15              19
Share of bottom 20% of households           "                          9               5               7
EXPENDITURE
Food                                     % of GDP                       -            24.4               -                -               -
Staples                                     "                          -             8.4               -                -               -
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs              "                          -             6.5                -               -
Cereal imports                       thou. metric tonnes               82             554             568           20,311          74,924          49,174
Food aid in cereals                                                     4               1              37            4,303           4,054             282
Food production per capita                1987=100                     99             100              89              90                -             109
Fertilizer consumption                     kg/ha                      2.4             2.5              2.3             4.2               -            68.8
Share of agriculture in GDP              %ofGDP                      28.2            25.2            32.1             18.6                             8.1
Housing                                  % of GDP                       -             3.0
Average household size              persons per household
Urban                                       "
Fixed investment housing                 % of GDP                       -             2.8
Fuel and power                           % of GDP                       -             0.8               -
Energy consumption per capita          kg of oil equiv.               172             150             125             258             1882            1649
Households with electricity
Urban                                 % of households                          -               -                        -               -
Rural                                       "                          -               -               -                -
Transport and communication              % of GDP                       -             6.1
Fixed investment: transport equipment        "                        3.2             2.1                -
Total road length                         thou. km                     45              47              49
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                  persons                  15,521          14,255
Population per nurse                                                2,040               -               -
Population per hospital bed                                           864               -            1,269           1,329            516              385
Oral rehydration therapy (under-5)       % of cases                     -               -              16              36                -              54
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                            % of school-age pop.              13              20              24               18               -              53
Female                                      "                          7              12              16               14               -
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary          pupils per teacher               44              36              37              39              26               25
Pupil-teacher ration: secondary                                        32              38               -                -
Pupils reaching grade 4                  % of cohort                   88              83              83                        -                      71
Repeater rate: primary                 % of total enroll               21              28                                -               -              II
Illiteracy                           %of pop. (age 15+)                 -              51              46              51                -              14
Female                              %offem. (age 15+)                  -              66              60              62                -              17
Newspaper circulation                   per. thou. pop.                 5               7               8               14             100             117



30
Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire
Latest single year     Most recent               Sane regionlIncome group
Indicator                          Unitofneasure  1970-75          1980-85        estinate        Sub Saharan    Lower-niddle-  Next higher
1987-92        Africa         incomne group   incone group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                    local curr.          -              -              -               -              -
Head count index                     % of pop.
Lower poverty line                    local curr.
Head count index                     % of pop.                                   -              -              -                       -
GNPpercapita                            USS              530             660            670             520                           3870
SHORT TERM INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                 local curr.                         -                      -               -                      -
Unskilled rural wages                 local curr.
Rural terms of trade                  local curr.          -              -              -
Consumerpficeindex                    1987=100            31             88             113
Lower income                                              -              -              -
Food'                                    "               18             78             100              -              -               -
Urban                                   "-                              -
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social serv    % of GDP               -               -              -               -                      -
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                           % school age pop.       62             75              69             66              -              107
Male                                                     77             88              81             79                              -
Female                                   "               47             62              58             62              -               -
Mortality
Infant mortality                 pertthou. live births  129.0          106.0           91.0           99.0            45.0           40.0
Under 5 mortality                                         -              -             129.3          169.0           59.0           51.0
Immunization
Measles                             % age group           -            28.0            42.0           54.0             -             82.0
DPT                                                       -             25.0           48.0           54.6             -             73.8
Child malnutrition (under-5)                             30.6             -             12.4           28.4             -               -
Life expectancy
Total                                  years                            53              56             52              68             69
Female advantage                         "               3.2            3.0             5.7            3.4            6.4             6.3
Total fertiiity rate               births per woman       7.4            7.4             6.6            6.1            3.1             2.9
Matemal mortality rate            er 100,000 live birt     -              -               -              -              -
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security   % of total gov't exp
Social security coverage           of econ. active po
Access to safe water: total           % of pop.          44.0             -             83.0           41.1             -             85.6
Urban                                    "              98.0             -             100.0          77.8             -             94.3
Rural                                    "              29.0             -             75.0           27.3             -             73.0
Access to health care                     "                -              -             60.0             -
lr~~~~~ -- -- - 
Population Growth Rate                            GNP per capita growth rate                    Development diamondb
6          (annual average, percent)                     (annual average, percent)                             Life expectancy
4                  777777lt0.0i'  S 1. 0000;
2 -GNP                                                                                                                                 Gross
. .g:g,g: ;g.g |  9 910.t: l  > f 0 0;;0   | |0 000 0<00 00T;1  per            primary
capita                          enrollment
1970-75       19808-5        1987-92
-2It                                               -5
-2 C6te d'l oi_i -lo                                                                                          Access to safe water
17 Cote d'lvoire                              i  -10 _1Cote d'lvoire
|  _Lower-middle-income                    1 l      1970-75      1980-85     1987-92              Lower-middle-income
a. See the technical notes.
b. The development diamond, based on four key indicators, shows the average level of development in the country compared with its income group.



31
Am=e DI
Page I of 2
CMte d'Ivoire -- National Accounts 1/
1994 Per Capita GNP (USS)    510 (eat.)
Midyear Population (Millions)  13.5
PART A: CURRENT PRICE DATA ( Billions of CFAF)
Gross Doanestic Product         2,939    2,960    2,952    2,946    4,136        5,032      6,614    7,698
Net Indirect Taxes              374       379      379      335       552        695        907    1,045
GDP at Factor Coat             2,565    2,581    2,573    2,611    3,584       4,337       5,707    6,653
Resource Balance                  134       89      112       32       516        529        430       574
Imports (GNFS)                  797       799      830      814    1,353       1,711      2,285    2,654
Exports (GNFS)                  931       888      942      846    1,869       2,240      2,715    3,228
Total Expenditure               2,805    2,871    2,840    2,914   3,620.6       4,503      6,184    7,124
Total Consunption               2,608    2,650    2,681    2,669   3,165.7       3,872      5,123    5,880
Government                      494      484       515      484       623        689        911    1,067
Private                       2,114    2,166    2,166    2,185    2,543        3,183       4,211    4,813
Gross Fixed Investment           250       254      251      231       455        631       1,061    1,244
Government                      105       102      113      109       165        241        293       332
Private                         145       152      138      122      290         390        769      912
Change in stocks                  (53)     (33)     (92)       14       (0)         0          0        (0)
Mermorandum Items:
Domestic Savings                 331      310      271       277      970       1,160      1,491    1,818
Net Factor Income              (307)    (347)    (335)    (415)    (567)        (547)      (439)    (482)
Net Current Transfers          (112)     (72)      (71)     (91)    (132)       (204)      (237)    (267)
National Savings                (117)    (150)    (101)      (91)     281         409        815    1,070
PART B: CONSTANT PRICE DATA  ( Billions of CFAF; 1986 Prices)
:::. g. g  g   ......... . g g gg ........   
..992 9     195k
Gross Domestic Product          3,255    3,256    3,249    3,242    3,302        3,533      4,168    4,595
Resource Balance                 808       652      629      493       627        581        680       764
Imports (GNFS)                   740       776      795      780       706        915       1,143    1,249
Exports (GNFS)                  1,548    1,427    1,424    1,273    1,333        1,495      1,823    2,013
Total Expenditure               2,447    2,604    2,620    2,749    2,675        2,952      3,487    3,831
Total Consumption               2,446    2,449    2,500    2,463    2,395       2,581       2,990    3,275
Government                      438      382       412      408      416         414        468      524
Private                       2,008    2,068    2,088    2,055      1,979      2,167      2,521    2,752
Total Fixed Investment           250       254      251      231       279        371        498       555
Change in stocks                 (249)     (99)    (131)      55         0          0          0         0
1/ New national accounts, INS 1986-1993; and estimates from the Ministry of Economy and Finance for 1994 and 1995.



32
Annex 81
Page 2 of 2
CMte d'Ivoire -- National Accounts
PART C  VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR ( Sectoral Shares, %)
....  ,..  I. ........     . .
'.,,..~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..
Agriculture                       35%      34%       33%      34%       36%        35%         33%      32%
Industry,ofwhich:                 22%      21%       20%      21%       23%        25%         28%      28%
Manufacturing                    12%      12%       12%      13%       15%        16%         16%      16%
Mining 1/                         0%       0%       0%        0%        1%         2%          6%       6%
Services                          43%      45%       47%      45%       41%        40%         39%      40%
Total                           100%     100%      100%     100%      100%       100%        100%     100%
Note: Shares are calculatedfrtom current prticc data.
PART D: LONG TERM GROWVlHi RATES( %)
.    ...   .  Actual                                 Prqwcted~~~........       .............. . .... ........
~~   . .  .1973-80              1984)-9~~W, 3 ..1.   994-2000.-:
Gross Domestic Product (m.p.)               8.6                6.8                 -0.3                  5.7
Agriculture                                4.9                3.3                  -0.1                 5.1
Industry of which                         12.5               11.8                  2.5                  7.0
Manufacturing                                                                      ..                   5.8
Mining 1/                                  ..                7.5                  -8.7                32.3
Services                                   11.2                8.1                 -1.3                  4.3
Imports of GNFS                             7.6               11.3                 -3.4                 10.0
Exports of GNFS                             6.2                6.5                 -0.4                  7.1
Total Expenditures                          8.8                7.9                 -1.3                  6.6
Total Consumption                           9.0                7.1                  0.0                  5.3
Government                                14.6               8.7                  -1.2                 3.9
Private                                    8.0               6.6                  0.3                  5.6
Gross Domestic lnvestment                   8.1               10.8                 -9.5                 14.2
Memorandum Itemn:
Population                                4.0                4.0                  3.8                  3.8
Labor Force                               ..                 2.5                  2.6                  2.6
GDP per capita                            4.1                2.7                  -4.0                  1.4
It Includes petroleum and gas extraction.



33
Annex B2
Page 1 of 2
Cote d'lvoire - External Trade
g________________       ..____ __1.... ..........                                       E_....                    .
*> C '.::.  B: ..:: . c. ''.    -  -c..  ... . .. . .
Merchandise Expor.  Volume Indices 1987 .  100
Cocoa                                   132.6   140.0   132.5   136.1   133.4   154.2   172.7   172.7   177.0   181.4   186.0
Fuel                                    108.5   112.2   152.4   147.2   138.4   159.2   198.9   207.9   207.9   210.0   212.1
Timber                                   97.7    76.9    75.2    64.3    91.2    88.5    87.2    88.1    89.8    91.6    93.4
Coffee                                  146.2   128.4   135.9   138.0   106.3   113.7   126.8   136.3   143.2   150.3   157.8
Total Merchandiac Exporls (FOB)         108.3   109.9   104.0    98.6   102.5   124.3   140.0   154.0   172.3   189.6   209.0
Merchandise Exports: Current Prices (USS millions)
Cocoa                                   823.7   895.1   838.3   830.9   951.2  1,319.5  1,344.8  1,358.3  1,438.2  1,531.8  1,631.5
Fuel                                    326.8   317.6   402.9   387.4   325.0   399.9   479.9   486.4   495.7   510.3   526.4
Timnber                                 377.5   278.6   330.6   273.0   348.8   402.6   411.0   431.3   457.5   485.3   514.8
Coffee                                  286.2   238.6   202.9   205.5   250.0   428.0   334.1   339.0   355.9   379.4   404.3
,Manufactures                           809.9   735.8   696.9   573.1   645.4   899.6  1,047.0  1,178.3  1,351.4  1,523.8  1,721.6
Other Exports                           378.4   345.7   392.2   335.0   346.2   440.4   425.4   439.2   474.7   513.0   551.8
Total Merchandise Exporls (FOB)       3,002.6  2,811.4  2.863.7  2,604.9  2.866.6  3,890.0  4,042.2  4,232.5  4,573.4  4,943.6  5,350.4
Merchandise Importst Volume Indices 1987=100
Food                                     84.0    85.3    57.8    77.3    58.7    81.5    87.3    96.1   101.7   107.3   112.4
Other Consumer Goods                     67.5    64.8    84.2    78.1    69.5   100.6   107.8   113.6   119.0   124.4   129.7
PjOLand Other Energy                    133.8   139.2   177.5   164.4   159.5   185.1   203.4   211.8   220.3   229.3   238.0
Manufactured Goods                       79.1    68.6    84.1    71.3    70.6   100.5   110.7   119.9   128.9   137.7   146.5
Capital Goods                            62.2    60.6    75.9    65.1    84.6   114.9   145.2   153.3   168.1   175.1   182.1
Total Merchandise Imports (CIF)        81.3    80.0    79.6    69.0    66.2    89.7   100.8   107.3   114.3   119.9   125.4
Merchandise Imports: Current Prices (USS millions)
Food                                    466.5   489.9   376.7   431.1   317.0   514.4   574.9   577.4   608.6   640.3   677.9
Other Consumer Goods                    385.3   454.1   551.6   500.7   470.0   748.3   817.8   879.1   944.2  1,012.6  1,084.3
POLand Other Energy                     568.6   530.0   510.8   430.4   396.0   491.7   524.5   562.8   596.6   632.8   670.8
Manufactured Goods                      255.6   236.4   300.7   253.9   297.0   440.0   500.7   554.7   611.5   669.3   729.6
Capital Goods                           419.1   393.5   531.2   332.3   423.0   613.8   801.2   865.7   973.4  1,038.6  1,106.9
Total Merchandise Imports (CIF)      2,098.0  2,103.5  2,270.9  1,948.4  1,903.0  2,808.2  3,219.0  3,439.6  3,734.3  3,993.6  4,269.4
USS Prices Indices 1987 =100
MerchandiaeExportPriccs                  76.6    76.8    73.4    75.1    79.6    95.5    89.2    89.9    92.3    94.7    97.1
Merchandise lmport Prices               107.7   109.0   104.1   111.0   112.1   122.1   124.4   125.5   127.7   130.0   133.4
MerchandiseTernuofTrade                  71.1    70.4    70.5    67.7    71.0    78.2    71.7    71.7    72.3    72.9    72.8
(continued)



34
Annex B2
Page 2 of 2
Cote d'Ivoire - External Trade
ggs l'. ....................,-..
.                                                                                           ..   .. ...
Shares                                G rowth rates
Merchandise Exports  ( % )               (In Current Prices)                     (From Constant Prices)
Coco                              26.3     27.4      33.9     30.5                8.9      3.1     3.8
Fuel                              21.4     10.9      10.3      9.8               11.2      8.0     5.9
Tirnber                           15.7      12.6     10.3      9.6             -10.0      -2.0     1.1
Coffee                             2.3      9.5      11.0      7.6                1.7     -4.9     6.8
Manufacturem                      21.6     27.0      23.1     32.2               9.5       0.6    11.0
OtherExports                      12.6      12.6     11.3     10.3               4.0       2.9     6.5
Total Merch. Export FOB         100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                5.2      2.8      6.2
Mermbandise Imports ( %)
Food                              14.5     22.2      18.3     15.9               ..       -0.6     6.6
Other Consumer Goods              21.0     18.4      26.6     25.4               ..        8.3     5.2
POL ad Other Energy               18.6     27.1      17.5     15.7               ..        6.7     5.2
Manufactured Goods                11.0     12.2      15.7     17.1               ..       4.9      7.8
CapitalGoods                      34.8     20.0      21.9     25.9               ..       13.1     9.6
Total Merchandise Imports (CIF)    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0             ..       2.0      6.9
I1 Compound rates.



35
AnnexB3
CMte d'Ivoire -    Balance of Payments                                                        Page I of I
(In Millions of US Dollar)
- . ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,, ...........................................   ....  ..    . ...........   '  .- ...
:,.RlllA R l: -l '''2'' ~~~~.     -.    9---...tU ...                                       ..   t.-.     ..tt
Tr deflalac.                      1,297.6    1,120.4    1,038.0    1,006.'   1,257 6     1,503.0    1,306.0   1,308.8   1,399.3   1,549.0   1,721.4
Exportb, fo.b.                   3,002.6    2,811.2    2,863.7    2,604.9   2,866.6     3,890.0    4,042.1   4.232.5   4,573.5   4,943.6   5,350.4
Imports,fo.b                     1,705.0    1,690.8     1,825.7    1,598:   1,6090      2,3870     2,736.1   2,923.7   3,1742    3,394.6   3,629.0
NetSorvicas                       (2.03S.4)   (1,997.5)   (1,998.9)  (1,809.31  (1,351.0)    (1,538.9)   (1,659.2)  (1,256.5)  (1,416.3)  (1,481.S)  (1.543.6)
Receipts                           595.8      534.9      576.5      605.9    510.3       607.6       687.8    746.1      802.8    864.6    930.7
Paymenta                         2,634.2    2.532,4    2,575.5    2,415.2   1,861.3     2,146.5    2,347.0   2,002.6   2,219.1   2,346.1   2,474.3
FactorPayments                  1,125.8    1,230.4    1,217.3    1,465.0   1,032.8     1,109.1    1,194.5    773.1      900.0    940.3    976.1
o/w:lnberest                     928.5    1,037.9    1,015.5    1,270.2    980.8       977.1     1,054.5    623.1      738.0    760.3    770.6
OtherServices                   1,508 4    1,302.0    1,358.2     950.2    828.5       1,037.4    1,152.5   1,229.5   1,319.1   1,405.8   1,498.2
Net Transfers                      (409.6)    (254.3)    (256.3)    (220.7)   (237.0)     (407.6)    (422.1)   (444.9)   (4669)   (490.3)   (515.0)
Prnvate                           (501.4)    (4030)     (416.7)    (319.6i   (2600)     (454.2)     (4780)   (503.1)   (5294)   (557.1)   (586.1)
Public                              91.8      148.7      1604        989      230         466         559       582       625      668       71.1
CurrenAesoeatBalance              (1,15041   (1.131.4)1(1.217.21   11.1)233,   (330l) 4   (443 5)    (7753)   (3926)   (4839)   (422.8)   (337.2)
Long-Term Capital Infow             1457        76.1      t46 9     s2439)    701 I       2445        204.4    532.0      2572     445.0    580.0
I.Directlnveatnient                 477       46.1        461       403      1000         80.0       100.0     120.0    1500      170.0    170.0
2. NetLILoans                       98.0       30.0      (93.0)    (284.2)    601 1      164.5       104.4    412.0      107.2    275.0    410.0
a. Disbursementa                1.0300       900.0      7890      6789    1,1026        7944        740.7   1,035.0    832.2   1,016.7   1,196.9
b. Amortization due               932.0      870.0      8820      963.1     501 5       629.9       636.3    623 0      725.0    741.7     786.9
OtherItema(Net) 1                  (572.0)    (268.1)    (240.1)      32.6   (3760)        (43.4)      87.5    (1193)    337.8      77.7   (134.5)
Overal Balance                    (1,576.6)  (1,323.5)   (1,504.2)  (1.2344)    (5.3)    (242.4)     (483.4)     201      111.1     999      108.3
FbInancg                           1,576.7    1,323.4    1,504.2    1.23416      5 3      242.4       483.4     (20 1)   (111 1)    (999)   (108.3)
NetlM.credit                       30.0      (60.0)      (920)       (493)    996         91.1        91.3 ..
OperationaAccountChanges           257.1       10.6      3249        33 9    15151)     (324.6)     (148.9)    (20.1)   (111 1)    (99.9)   (108.3)
Adjmt.tosched.debtserv 2/         1,289.6    1,372.8    1.271 3    1.2500    -1208         475.9      5410                   ..                ..
Shares of currnt GDP:
1.TradeBalance                     12.06      10.7%       970/0      97%     169         14.9%      11 7%      1088    10.8%    15.0 111 6%
2. MLT Interef t Payment            8.6%       9 9%       9 52-     12 2%60  13 28/       9.70.0      9 4%      5 2%      5.7%     S 5%     5 2%'
3. Cumrnt Account Balance        -107        -10.8%    -18 4.       -98 %.    -46 40      -4 4.S     -6.9%     -3 3%    317%       -3,09.    -23%
Memnoranduml Items:
GDP                              10,793.2   10,492.7    10,7228    10,4131    7,4523    10,064.0    11,170.3  12,075.4  12,994.1  13,943.5  14,861.0
Exchange Rate (CFAF/USS)
Annual Average                     272.3     282.1       275.3     283.2    5551 0       500.0       499.0    504.0      509.0    513.0    518.0
1/ Includes short-term capital end errora and onusslona.
2/ includes arrears accumulation. Fromn 1994 onward, new arrears pertain onily to the Lonidonl Club.



36
An,wx B4
Pa8e 1 ofl
CMte d'Ivoire        Financial Operations of the Central Government
(In Billions of CFAF at current prices)
.~~~0
TOTAL REVENUES                       630.8     589.4     597.6      518.0     847.0     1,092.0      1.202.2   1,293.    1.414.6  1535.5   1642.9
Tax Revenum                          516.1     499.8     499.9      43S.3     678.5       897.3      1,026.5   1,103.4   1,1983    1,294.5   1,3S3.5
DirectTo                            142.2     120.6     120.8     100.6      126.4       202.0       229.5     263.5     291.0      314.7     338.7
Dom.Taxes onG&S                     118.7     130.3     131.5      116.6     131.0       167.3       195.7     228.2     248.0      268.2     288.7
Taxesonlmpoxu                       247.2     240.9     242.0     212.4      280.6       350.6       408.8     466.3      522.4     574.3     619.1
Tae on Expors                         8.0       8.0       5.6       5.7      140.5       177.4       192.5     145.4      136.9     137.3     137.0
Non-Tax Revenues                     114.7      89.6      97.7      82.7      168.5       194.7       175.7     190.1      216.3     241.0     259.4
CGPP Surplus 1/                      21.6      26.8       20.5     11.2       0.0          0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
CSSPPASurplus21                        ...       ...     19.2       18.1    112.7        124.7        53.4      50.7      49.6       53.6      57.7
Social Security Contributions        43.2      38.3       37.8     37.6      42.6         52.2        77.7      81.6      87.3       94.4     101.6
OtberNon-Tax Revenue                 49.9      24.5      20.2      15.8       13.2        17.8        44.6      57.8      79.4       93.0     100.1
CURRENT EXPENDlTURE                  908.4     886.4     851.3     886.0   1.076.       1.107.9      1195.0   1.050.6   1.177.0   1.251.1   1.312.7
Wages and Salaries                   324.0     317.8     320.1     314.6      328.0       346.3       388.5     407.8     436.5      472.1     508.1
Social Security Benefits              36.7      35.6      36.4      39.8       51.3        65.2        71.2      75.2       80.5      86.6      91.0
OtherCurrent Expenditues             118.2     131.4     128.8      129.8     159.5       206.2       212.2     269.1     321.2      359.7     391.9
Special Acoounts                      63.2      45.7      27.4      22.8       35.3        44.2        40.0      31.0      29.0       26.0      25.0
CG Autonomous Entities                42.9      30.8      32.3      30.2       39.4        26.9        35.1      40.0      44.0       47.5      51.0
CSSPPA Dericit                        35.0       2.0       0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Interest Due                         288.4     323.1     306.3      348.8     463.0       419.1       448.0     227.5      265.8     259.2     245.7
Domestic Debt                        35.6      29.3      36.4      47.6      44.6         36.7        33.6      39.5      38.0       40.1      33.8
External Debt                       252.8     293.8     269.9     301.2     418.4        382.4       414.4     188.0     227.8      219.1     211.9
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE             (277.6)   (297.0)   (253.7)   (368.0)   (229.S)       (15.9)        7.2     242.9     237.6      284.4     330.2
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                   74.7      87.1      89.5      73.8      165.3       241.2       260.7     276.5     292.6      305.4     332.2
OVERALL BALANCE                     OQ2.3)    084.1)   t343.2)   (441.8)    094.80       27.1)       (253.5)    133.6)    (5t.0)    a21o)       (2.0
Memorandum
Primary Balance (CFAF bil.)          -63.9      -61.0     -36.9     -93.0      68.2       162.0        194.5     193.9     210.8     238.2      243.7
Revenues / GDP (%)                    21.5       19.9      20.2      17.6      20.5        21.7        21.6       21.3      21.4      21.5       21.3
Primary Expenditurcs IGDP(%)          23.6       22.0      21.5      20.7      18.8         18.5        18.1      18.1      18.2      18.1       18.2
Primary EBance GDP(%)                  -2.2      -2.1      -1.3      -3.2       1.6         3.2         3.5        3.2       3.2       3.3       3.2
Interst I GDP (%)                      9.8       10.9      10.4      11.8      11.2         8.3         8.0        3.7       4.0       3.6       3.2
Overai BaIane IGDP(b)                 -12.0     -13.0     -11.6     -15.0      *9.5         -5.1       -4.5       -0.6      -0.8      -0.3       0.0
11 Caisse Generale de P6r6quation des Prix (Price Equalization Fund)
2/ Caisse de Stabilisation (Cofife/Cocoa Mawieting Board)
Source: Ministry of Economy and Finance, and staffestimates.



37
Annex B5
Page I of I
Cote d'lvoire ---- Monetary Survey
(In Billions or CFAF)
.,,.,,.,.,,,,....,,''.'''''  ,  .}...'..'..''... .'' .'.'.'. ..'' '..     .. ...   .. . . ..
End of Year Stocks:
Net Foreign Assets                       -495.2    -473.6    -511.3    -515.0        -71.5      63.1
Domestic Credit                          1.307.1    1.303.3    1,334.6    1,289.3    1,372.4    1384.7
of which:
Claims on central govt. (nct)            203.8      216.3     367.7      376.1     506.5      506.8
Claims on private sector                1,072.7    1,065.9    946.4      896.3     854.9      867.9
Claimns on other fin, instituitions       30.6       21.0      20.5       16.9      10.9        9.9
Money                                     526.4      510.1     489.4      494.0     798.8      790.1
Quasi-Money                               319.0      336.3     346.9      331.0     412.1      479.5
Long-Ternm Foreign Liabilities             64.6       62.4      45.7       47.6      47.8       35.5
Otherltems(net)                           -98.1      -79.1     -58.7      -98.3      42.1      142.6
Annual Chan!e:
Net Foreign Assets                         -9.6       21.6     -37.7       -3.7     443.5      134.6
Domestic Credit                           -67.2       -3.8      31.3      -45.3      83.1       12.3
of which:
Claims on central govt. (net)            -26.1       12.5     151.4        8.4     130.4        0.3
Claims on private sector                  -33.8      -6.8    -119.5      -50.1     -41.4       13.0
Claims on other fin, institutions          -7.4      -9.6      -0.5       -3.6      -6.0       -1.0
Money                                      15.2      -16.3     -20.7        4.6     304.8       -8.7
Quasi-Money                                -37.5      17.3      10.6      -15.9      81.1       67.4
Long-Tern Foreign Liabilities              -5.7       -2.2     -16.7        1.9       0.2      -12.3
Other Items (nct)                         -48.9       19.0      20.4      -39.6     140.4      100.5
Memoranduml:
Money/GDP(%)                               17.97      17.9      16.6       16.8      19.3       15.7
Quasi-Money/GDP(%)                         10.9       11.4      11.8       11.2      10.0        9.5
Broad Money / GDP (%)                      28.8       28.6      28.3       28.0      29.3       25.2
(*) End of October 1995 stocks.
Source: IMF, International Financial Statistics.



ANNEX C
COTE D'IVOIRE - PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MATRIX OF ACTIONS
0~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~.....                      ..0 ...                                                                                                     ..............-...00fS0gl-;.i -00000
.. 0 0 ~~~~~~~. .     ..,.   .,,,        , ..t... , , ,,,,,, , . ,,,,,,                                                                              ,    .., ,...     .g.i .. 
I1.     Improve legalf and j udic iary systemT7   
II  Reform of business laws        Inclusion of business
(OHADA)                        representatives in national
OH-ADA commission
Creation of accounting
subcommission
1.2     Reform of judicial system      Transmission of action plan    Adoption of action plan by Council of  |Implementation of first phaseofatn|
Ministers.
Inclusion of relevant provisions in Budget   iplan (cf annex of LDP)w
Law 1996                                                                                                           o
1 .3    Establishment of Arbitration   Cost estimates and
Court                          action plan for training and
promotion  available_________                                                         _________
2.      Reform of specific business taxes fand tax procedures        
2.1     Reform of specific busines taxes    Government commits in LDP
to carry out studies and to
implement in 1997 Budget
Law reforms based on
recommendations of studies,
in concertation with donors
( IMF, Bank, France)_______                                                        _________
2.2     Reform of tax procedures and                                Inclusion of Ilrst set of revisions in Budget                                Publication of complete reform of
penalties                                                  Law 1996                                                                     procedures and penalties in 1997
_______________________                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Budget  Law
New Labor Code published    Signature of first series of labor Code                                      Publication of remaining Labor Code
3.      Increase flexibility of Isbor   in 1995, but not yet       implementation decrees (minimum of 5                                          implementation decrees
legisl5tion                          i  applicable awaiting  decrees, including those on temporary job
implementation decrees     agencies and recruitment agencies).



ANNEX C
2
=o~~~~~~ ... ....-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. -.-.--                              -.. --,v ................... .::::::-: .. :   ::. :    .... A.' 
OBJECT   ES     Actans aleady take                Jtns to be taken beoeDisbtirsemnent con diitons
BoOrd. PseOatk*i
4.      Continuation of trade liberalisation and strengthening of competition policy
4.1     Trade liberalization :-         Government commits in LDP
Compliance with WTO            to comply with WTO
procedures for introduction of  procedures for all
compensatory /countervail ing  compensatory/countervailing
duties                         duties
4.2     Liberalization of production and    Far-reaching liberalization  Publication of texts                                                   Implementation of at least 3 activities
domestic marketing ( elimination   under ERC and ASAC      pertaining to I rst phase                                                    of second phase of action plan
of remaining restrictions)                                 of action plan
4.3     Completion of PASCO tariff                                  Elimination in 1996                                                          Second phase of elimination of duty
reform:                                                    Budget Law of                                                                exemptions for assembly industries
Elimination of duty exemptions                             exemptions for certain
for assembly industries                                    assembly industries
4.4     Strengthening of Competition    Commission established                                                                                   Increase in number of members and
Commission                     since 1993                                                                                               change of composition of Competition
Commission..
Opening of appeal procedure to
individual firms
4.5     Access to Certified Public                                                                                                               Definition of conditions for equivalency
Acountants profession                                                                                                                   between CPA diploma and "expert-
comtable" diploma
5.      Streamline Pre-shipment Inspeetion/ Port / Customs chain for imports and exports
5.1     Preshipment inspection          Improve data exchange with
Customs . - Hold weekly
reconciliation meetings
5.2     Port                                                        Creation of Port                        Compliance with performance criteria. ,
Competitiveness
Commission (mandatory
consultation on
important investment
and management



3
. . . : .; .: : : <; : :: k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....... .  
BJECTIVES  Actions already taken           A4~ti~tns to be taken                                                        un~ine                           .......
........:: ........                                                                                     .       .........  . .  .. ...... : :.::: : :: ::
5.3       Customs                               Government commits to              Implementation of first                          Implementation of action plan.               Reform of Customs Code (regulations,
action plan in LDP, annex         phase of customs reform                          Compliance with performance criteria. | penalties, etc.) and publication of User's
action plan.                                     Simplification of temporary admission  |Guide.
Transmission of status              ~~~~~~~procedures for qualified exporters. I
report.
Valuation   study   completed.                                                     ______________________________.._....._._......Valuation.study.com pleted.
6.       :Telecommunications                     Privatization strategy                                                             Sale of 51%  of ClTELCOM  to a
:: 0: i i  0  00: 0 0;       adopted.                                                                           |private investor or consortium
: g 0g::;    :  g  ; ;;gg:;:0:  : gf:00  f:Creation of independent
0  000  ;;    0;t  00  ;  0regulatory body completed.
7.1       Bulk and refrigerated traffic          Decree reserves 50% of bulk       Publication of decree
and refrigerated traffic to       liberalizing bulk and
SITRAM                            refrigerated traffic as of
January 1997. Transition
____________________________                           ~~~~period   until end  of  1996.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
7.2       General traffic                        Decree liminates OIC visa-    Publication of
de facto liberalization of non    implementation Arrete
conference general cargo          specifying information
traffic                           requirements.________
7.3       Clarification of conditions for                                          Publication of decree
chartering ships                                                        establishing transparent
conditions for chartering
ships.                                                                                       _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _
7.4       Transformation of OIC into                                                                                               . Privatization resulting in 35% of shares
professional body representing                                                                                            at most held by public sector.|
shippers interests ( majority
____private equity and management)                                            ______________________________
0    :    0;  :   t                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Elimination of double insurance through
8.        Mariffmse insuranee                                                                                                                                                    repeal of provisions creating mandatory
f:  0: ;:  ::: 0 0::: 0 :0:|: 0:: f 3 | 0:                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~import insurance with Ivorian insurance
:     _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ :::_        _  _ _  _  _ __  __                         _ _  _ _  _ _  __  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _    com  panies.
9.        Road transport        ::Government commits in LPD
lettires de vtoitre.s nationales:     to put introduction of lettres
:system                                 de voiture on hold and to
:            ::          ~~~~~~review system in Transport
Sector Adjustment operation__________________
10.      Reform  of investment and              Govemment commits to



4
.                                                                                                                                          ..  ,,, ,,  ,   = =   . ............................... . . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
.IECTWS                                 'Ac  .   .:already taken::::                                    ction to be taken befr                                                                              Disbursemen c                          t
.......::.:.:.:-.::.:.:.:.:.:.:....-.: .:.:.-::.............................................    .............  .......................................................     ........................   :.:.::,    ,,-,- ,, - , :,-.-:.:.:..... ,- , ::::-: .  ... . .     .. . .. .  .. .     ..     ....
business start-up procedures                             action plan in LPD, annex
11.            Export promotion                                        Government commits to
liquidation of CCIA and                                                                                                    Liquidation of CCIA and creation of |
creation of private sector                                                                                               Iprivate export promotion organization
maJority export promotion.
non  profit organization                           ________                      ___         ________
12.           Elimination of arrears                                   Agreement in PFP.
Adoption of arrears
elimination program.
Compliance with program as
______ ______ _____      ______         _____         of end    1995.                                    _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _     _   _   _    _   _   _          _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _
13.           Regular concertation between                             Creation of Comule de
the Government and the private   Ddveloppement du Secteur
sectOr                                                   Prive'. - Re- activation of
Conilid de Liaison.
grmatrix.doc



42
ANNEX D
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(PSD-AC)
LETTER OF SECTORAL
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
March 1996



43
Annex D
Page 2
I - INTRODUCTION
Since independence, the economic policy of C6te d'Ivoire has been based on two principal thrusts,
namely economic liberalism and openness to the outside world.
Thanks to implementation of this policy, the country turned in creditable performances during the
period 1960-1980, with an average annual growth rate of around 7%. A major factor in the achievement of
this result was the Government's substantial effort in the area of public investment.
This promising trend started petering out in 1980, partly as a result of plummeting raw materials
prices, a phenomenon that caused the Government's ready cash to dry up and dealt a severe blow to the
terms of trade.
The country then found itself facing a serious crisis, marked by:
-      a drop in per capita income;
-      a drop in the gross investment to GDP ratio, which fell from 27% in 1979 to 8% in 1993;
-      a drop in domestic savings averaging an annual 5.5% of GDP;
-      a primary deficit in the public finances, posted at 3.2% of GDP in 1993;
-      an estimated current account deficit of 10% in 1993;
-      an accumulation of payment arrears on the part of the Government, amounting to 15% of
GDP in 1980 and 4.4% in 1993, the cause of a substantial reduction in private sector
investment.
To remedy this situation, C6te d'lvoire implemented several structural adjustment programs over
the period 1981-1990, supported by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. But despite the
efforts made and the appreciable results obtained in many areas, it proved impossible to reverse the
economy's deteriorating situation.
II - RECENT ECONOMIC TRENDS
In 1991, an economic stabilization and recovery program was launched for the period 1991-1993.
This program, supported by three structural adjustment loans, aimed to:
-      restructure the financial sector (PASFI);
-      launch a program to improve the health and education services (PVRH);
-      reestablish the global competitiveness of the economy through improvement of procedures,
liberalization of imports and of prices, and tax cuts (PASCO).
A plan to reform the public sector and privatize some 60 public enterprises was also put into effect.



44
Annex D
Page 3
However, the results obtained were not satisfactory: the growth rate remained negative, averaging
an annual 0.6%.
Moreover, a review of C6te d'Ivoire's economic situation pointed up the tenuousness of the
country's macroeconomic equilibrium, a phenomenon attributable both to its dependency on such raw
materials as coffee and cocoa and to its excessive external debt burden.
This was the context, compounded by an overvalued CFA franc and a weakening of global
economic competitiveness, within which C6te d'Ivoire, together with the other African countries in the CFA
franc zone, opted in January 1994 to implement a new global adjustment strategy. This strategy, based on a
50% realignment of the CFA franc-French franc parity, was designed to bring about a significant
improvement in the internal and external competitiveness of the Ivorian economy.
In line with this trend, the Government, supported by the Bretton Woods institutions and other
bilateral partners, formulated a new recovery program undergirded by a number of significant measures.
Those measures were designed to:
(1)   curb inflation through the control of nominal wages and the continued adoption of rigorous
budgetary and monetary policies, staple price controls, and cuts in domestic and export and
import taxes;
(2)    complement financial stabilization and promote economic recovery through completion of
the PASCO, mainly through:
-     creation of the CEPICI;
-     adoption of a new Investment Code;
-     adoption of a new Mining Code;
-     adoption of a new Labor Code;
-     continued streamlining of the tax system;
(3)   liberalize the agricultural subsectors and the maritime sector within the framework of
CARE and CASA;
(4)   step up implementation of the privatization policy.
Thanks to this new action framework, significant results were posted at the end of 1995:
-     an economic growth rate estimated at close to 6.5%, against a low 1.8% in 1994;
-     a primary surplus of CFAF 150 billion;
-     an inflation rate of around 9%, against 32.5% in 1994;
-     a gross investment ratio equivalent to 14% of GDP, of which 9% was accounted for by the
private sector;



45
Anne
Page 4
an export growth rate of 17% against a low 5.5% increase in 1994;
a trade balance in considerable surplus, estimated at CFAF 800 billion, against 740 billion
in 1994 and 287 billion in 1993.
Thus the Ivorian economy today holds all the cards to enable it to achieve a significant and
sustainable level of recovery. The Government's objective is to attain growth rates of over 10% starting in
1998. This growth process would be driven by the private sector.
The overall strategy for achieving this outcome would be based on the following actions:
-     continuation of the austerity policy in financial management and management of the
economy;
-     continuation of the human resource development program;
-     continued liberalization of domestic and foreign trade;
-     continued liberalization of the labor market;
-     continued liberalization of the maritime sector
-     implementation of a new regional development policy to develop more of the country's
untapped potential;
-      implementation of an environmental protection program;
-     rehabilitation of the public finances, in particular through the concession to the private
sector of certain public interest projects (Abidjan exhibition park, Jacqueville toll bridge
over Ebrie Lagoon, a third thermal station at Abidjan, the Abidjan-Anyama slaughterhouse,
the Abidjan urban rail service, the Abidjan inter-urban bus and truck station,
modernization, expansion and concession of FHB airport, Sud-Banco toll bridge in
Abidjan, Riviera-Marcory toll bridge in Abidjan, Abidjan-Grand Bassam toll expressway,
Abidjan-Yamoussoukro toll highway, olympic stadium in Abidjan);
-     continuation of the policy on public supporting investment (infrastructures, hydro power,
sanitation);
-     continuation of the rural sector promotion and agricultural modernization and
diversification policy;
-     strengthening of regional cooperation, particularly within the framework of the UEMOA
and the CEDEAO;
-     continuation of the policy for clearing of the entire domestic debt;
-     exploration of appropriate ways to handle Cote d'Ivoire's external debt, particularly its
commercial debt;



46
Annex D
Page 5
-     development of a special private sector promotion program.
By implementing this program the Government expects to realize its intention of making the
private sector the driving force in the economy's growth, and will assign the private sector a target
investment rate of 26% of GDP out of the 30% estimated for the year 2000.
The private sector will thus play a preponderant role in implementation of the development strategy
formulated for the coming years, of which the four key areas are the following:
Agriculture.  To achieve the targeted objective of double-digit growth, foodcrop
production will need to grow by 6% and export crops by 4% per year. To this end, efforts
will have to be made to consolidate the present agricultural base and diversify foodcrop and
export crop production.
Industry, mining and energy. Development in these areas will require a higher rate of
processing of above-ground and below-ground raw materials across 12 subsectors assigned
priority by the Government, namely: coffee-cocoa, cereals, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables,
starches, cotton, wood, rubber, mining-gas, pharmaceuticals, packaging, and capital goods.
Agro-industrial production will need to increase by an annual average of 10% and other
industries by 15%. In the mining, oil and energy subsectors, the average annual growth in
production is estimated at 23%.
*     Services. The Government intends to develop this sector through the promotion of
tourism, and through the development of transportation, telecommunications, the Stock
Market, the banks, and the insurance companies.
*     iiExports. Given the narrowness of the domestic market, the heavy growth will be
accompanied by an increase in exports, in particular of semi-industrial and industrial
products, which should show a 20% growth rate per year.
The macroeconomic policy envisaged for the period will tend to make the economy more
competitive and to bring about improvements at the legal, administrative, and judicial levels that will help
create a climate of confidence within the business community. The present private sector development
project fits into this context.
III - PRIVATESECTORSUPPORTPROGRAM
Within the framework of a proactive policy of liberalization, the private sector support program
aims to create all the conditions necessary to enable the private sector to drive the economy to achievement
of the projected high growth rates.
The aim of this program is to permit the emergence of a dynamic and enterprising private sector, to
promote profitable and efficient economic activities, and to contribute to the substantial development of



47
Annex D
Page 6
CMte d'Ivoire's exports, within a completely rehabilitated legal and administrative environment. Following
are the guidelines underlying the formulation of these policies:
1.    Improvement of the judicial system.
2.     Strengthening of competitiveness of the ports and speeding up clearance and delivery
procedures.
3.     Rationalization of customs procedures.
4.     Revision of tax procedures and penalties.
5.     Continuation of the program to clear the domestic debt.
6.     Easing of labor regulations.
7.     Strengthening of competition.
8.    Completion of liberalization of maritime transport.
9.     Continued simplification of investment procedures.
10.    Export promotion.
II.    Completion of the tariff reforms adopted within the PASCO framework.
12.    Liberalization of maritime insurance for imports.
The various objectives and actions and their implementation timetable are set out in the attached
matrix.
HIJ1 - Improvement of the judicial system
A number of studies undertaken over the past few months have identified the two major obstacles
to efficient operation of the judicial system:
delays in the handing down and execution ofjudgments;
judgments frequently disputed by the parties concerned.
Not only have these two weaknesses contributed to the undermining of the legal system itself, they
can also create a climate discouraging to private investment, if the adopted solutions are not put in place in
the near future.
The plan for improving operation of the judicial system is consequently geared to the following
three objectives:
strengthen the judicial system, providing adequate material and human resources and
establishing supervisory bodies to help resolve economic disputes;



48
Annex D
Page 7
enhance the image of the judiciary through improved communication between the legal
profession and the parties in court proceedings;
enhance the integrity of the legal and paralegal professions by such measures as the
introduction of quality improvements in the hiring and training of judges and the
assignment of greater responsibility to court officials.
To achieve these objectives, the Government has decided that several measures will be
implemented over the period 1996-1997 (also in Annex 1).
These measures aim to:
-      strengthen and upgrade the function of supervision of the judiciary through reactivation of
the General Inspectorate of Legal Services (Inspection Generale des Services Judiciaires);
-      improve the process of settlement of economic disputes through establishment of an
Arbitration Tribunal within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry;
-      improve elaboration process and put in place legislative and regulatory texts;
-      engage legislative and regulatory reform with the hope of speeding up litigation before the
courts;
-      speed up judicial proceedings by opening registration centers;
-      assure better access to legislative and regulatory texts and systematic publication of rulings;
-      promote communication;
-      reform the clerk of court offices;
-      strengthen equipment;
-      assure continued training of magistrates and clerks of court.
The project coordinator is responsible for assuring coordination and supervision of these measures.
III2 - Strengthening of competitiveness of the ports and speeding up of clearance and delivery delays
The competitiveness of C6te d'Ivoire's ports could be strengthened significantly through
improvements in their operational performance and savings on service costs. The program provides for the
following measures to achieve these goals:
creation of Port Communities (Communautes Portuaires) as a framework for dialogue
among all port operators and users;



49
Annex D
Page 8
increased participation of private port operators in the Competitiveness Committee
(Commission de la Compe'titivite), which will be institutionalized and assigned a broader
range of functions, notably the addition of consultations for each of the Ports regarding
their development as well as big investments. This last function will be undertaken by a
sub-commission;
regarding the Port Autonome d'Abidjan, undertake two studies to examine in depth the
high costs associated with port transit delays and also the true status of competition among
private port operators;
putting in place of an electronic data exchange network within the Ports Community to
enable all users of the Port Autonome d'Abidjan to follow cargo and vessel movements
from the port of shipment to the final delivery point;
putting in place the following performance criteria to measure progress, particularly with
respect to container management in the yards of the Autonomous Port of Abidjan:
length of stay of containers, 7 days for imports, 3 days for exports;
availability of cranes, 90%
number of unloaded containers, 16 per hour (commercial rate).
III 3 -Rationalization of custons procedures
The introduction of simplified and speedy customs procedures would be a key factor in reducing
the high costs associated with lengthy vessel turnaround time and clearance delays.
An action plan to streamline customs procedures is being implemented within the program
framework. Its purpose will be to substantially reduce the delays caused by cumbersome and time-
consuming customs controls. Consequently, the following steps will be taken to improve customs
procedures, streamline exemption management, and facilitate the handling of disputes:
-      elimination of handwritten documents;
-      greater recourse to the possibilities offered by SYDAM;
-      automatic issue of clearance papers;
-      putting in place, to benefit large export companies, 10-day customs procedures;
-      computerized exemption management;
-      redeployment of staff responsible for producing handwritten documents;
-      studies concerning implementation of the TIER treaty;
-      updating the Customs Codes since its revision, which includes customs sanctions in an
effort to be more transparent. The results of this work will be submitted to the National
Assembly at the time of the vote on the Budget Law for 1997;



50
Annex D
Page 9
An Users' Guide will be then be published.
putting in place performance criteria which will allow progress in the area of customs
clearance of merchandise as follows:
-     24-hour clearance for the "green circuit" (document control only)
48-hour clearance for the "red circuit" (combination of random and selectively
targeted controls)
II.4 - Revision of tax procedures and penalties
In accordance with the agreement reached during the meeting of Cote d'lvoire, the IMF and the
World Bank on October 9, 1995 in Washington concerning the observance of a temporary suspension of
the process of reducing the nominal tax burden pending broadening of the tax base, strengthening of the
capacities of the tax and customs administrations, and streamlining of exemption management, no major tax
cut will be undertaken within the framework of this program. However, reforms designed to improve the
efficiency of the assessment and collection departments and to simplify the tax system will be implemented.
In the particular case of the ASDI (Acompte sur Divers Impos), the Government will commission a study
to determine the net yield of that levy and its impact on other taxes.  Furthermore, the Government will
undertake a study of the business tax (patente).  The need for reform of these two taxes will not be
deternined until the study has been completed.
T'he drafting of a volume on tax procedures is a major task that will need to be completed in 1996
so that its findings can be incorporated into the Tax Annex to the 1997 Budget Law. However, at the
request of the private economic operators, certain provisions that they regard as urgent were taken into
account in the Tax Annex to the 1996 Budget Law. These are:
the tax penalties system, which would be revised to harmonize the penalties for violations
with respect to the principal taxes and levies and to reestablish a range of fines depending
on the seriousness of the violation;
-     clarification of tax adjustment procedures, particularly as regards the burden of proof,
depending on whether the adjustment is the outcome of an adversarial proceeding or of an
arbitrary decision;
-     deferment of payment in the event of a court action, to be granted to any taxpayer who
disputes his assessment, subject to the submission of guarantees.
III5 - Continued clearance of the domestic debt
The Government's program for clearance of the domestic debt has yielded good results so far, as the
World Bank has noted. The repayment of close to CFAF 100 billion of arrears in 1994 and of close to 80
billion in 1995 out of the initial 288 billion outstanding in 1993 has certainly helped to restore the financial
health of the productive sector. This program is progressing normally, and represents a performance
criterion under the program negotiated with the IMF for the period 1994-1996.



51
Annex D
Page 10
At this point, it is estimated that the entire domestic debt will have been cleared by the end of 1996.
Moreover, it is understood that the Government will make sure that there is no accumulation of new arrears
for the duration of this program.
III6 - Easing of labor regulations
Following adoption of the new Labor Code, which helped introduce greater flexibility into the
process of staff recruitment, hiring of day laborers and temporary workers, mass and individual layoffs, and
use of overtime, draft implementation decrees elaborated by the Administration of Work and Public
Function, were submitted for review by the Consultative Labor Commission. These draft decrees (listed in
Annex 2) took account both of the remarks made by the mission entrusted with the comparative analysis of
certain foreign regulations and the innovations incorporated into the new Labor Code, and of the opinions
and observations of the International Labor Office (ILO).
After the opinion of the Consultative Labor Commission, which is composed equally of employer
and worker representatives, these draft decrees will be submitted in the near future to the Council of
Ministers for adoption.
II. 7 - Strengthening of competition
A - Organization of the accounting profession
The organization of the accounting profession in C6te d'Ivoire has two main points of reference:
the law no. 92-568 of September 11, 1992 regulating the profession, and the recently created Order of
Accountants.
All professionals meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in the implementing decree to the above-
mentioned law No. 95-304 of September 4, 1995 will be eligible for membership of the Order of
Accountants.
In particular, regarding membership of nationals of the UEMOA, those having already filed an up-
to-date application will be registered. In the future, these nationals will be registered subject to reciprocity.
Regarding the CPA diploma (Certified Public; Accountant), prompt action will be taken to insure
the recognition of its equivalency.
B - Institution of compensatory duties
The institution of compensatory duties, if need be, will take place only in strict observance of the
GATT/OMC rules.
To this effect, it has already been indicated that the procedure for instituting these duties will be
initiated upon written request from or on behalf of the interested party. The request will have the following
as proof: i) the existence of a subsidy; ii) damage to the national industry; iii) a link between subsidized
imports and alleged damage. The inquiry will be headed by the Direction du Commerce Exterieur.
In an effort to apply the GATT/OMC agreement according to the directives of OMC and in the
context of a more efficient management of export promotion, the Government of Cote d'Ivoire has



52
Annex D
Page I I
requested the assistance of the World Bank to train personnel in charge of applying the compensatory duties
procedures, as well as other aspects of international commerce.
C - Competition Committee and Directorate of Competition (Direction de la Concurrence)
The proposed measures, which are intended to reactivate the above Committee and Directorate,
relate to the following:
increase the number of members of the Committee on Competition from seven to nine,
four of which from the private sector;
nomination, by decree and at the request of the Ministry of Commerce, of four of these
members from a short-list established by representatives of the private sector, based on
their moral integrity and their economic and financial competence or their experience in
production, distribution or service;
increase the number of reporters of the Competition Committee from three to five;
adopt a financial scheme which allows flexibility in executing the budget of the Committee
and remuneration of its members;
a diagnostic study of the Directorate of Competition before embarking on the proposed
measures to strengthen the capacity of this Directorate, specifically regarding training and
retraining of staff and putting in place a work methodology.
D - Continued liberalization of the market
The proposed action plan comprises two phases:
Phase 1:
liberalization of bakery outlets, local rice and cement distribution, and imports of used
vehicles.
Phase 2:
exhaustive inventory of other activities performed within the framework of the regulations
or agreements governing monopolies;
carrying out studies to realize the opportunities and feasibility of liberalization of activities
that will be compiled;
based on the results of these studies, determine what needs to be done for liberalization; for
instance, define the regulatory scope anticipating access for these activities. It is foreseen
that at least 3 activities will be liberalized in the course of 1997.



53
Annex D
Page 12
III8 - Completion of liberalization of maritime transport
During its mission to Washington from December 11 to 15, 1995, the Ivorian delegation reaffirmed
the Government's commitment to the principle of complete liberalization of maritime transport as
enunciated within the CARE framework, and recalled efforts already made in this area, such as:
complete liberalization of regular line traffic;
liberalization of 50% of the specialized traffic assigned to the forner SITRAM.
The last stage of this process involves only the liberalization of the remaining 50% of specialized
traffic (refrigerated and bulk traffic).
Given the beneficial impact that liberalization of maritime transport is expected to produce on the
economy's overall competitiveness, the analyses and discussions engaged in by the Ivorian delegation
underscored the need for the following actions:
complete liberalization of specialized traffic starting January 1, 1997;
-      on a transitional basis for 1996, allocation to the entire domestic fleet of 50% of rights of
specialized traffic of wine, palm oil, pineapples and bananas only.
Services offered by maritime transport companies will have to match the most competitive
conditions in specialized transport.
Moreover, the reform of the shippers' council (Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs - OIC) will involve
the overhaul of its functions, restructuring of its capital stock to secure a private sector majority, and
revamping of its method of financing.
In this regard, OIC will be privatized in such a way that participation in its capital from the state
and the public sector will be reduced to a maximum of 35% of the voting rights.
III9 - Simplification of investment procedures
The Government has set its growth objectives in such a way as to make the private sector the driver
of the recovery process, allowing it substantial room for initiative in the area of investment. In effect, the
net private investment ratio relative to GDP will be around 14 to 15 % starting in 1997.
To achieve those objectives, a reform of the legal, administrative and institutional framework
appears necessary in order to simplify investment procedures, and implementation of an action plan is
essential. In this regard, the project defined in Annex 3 will be put in place by the second trimester of 1997.
III10 - Export promotion
Given the narrowness of the domestic market and the openness of the Ivorian economy to
international competition, the development of exports would seem to be a key factor in development of the
private sector.



54
Annex D
Page 13
To this end, the Government is undertaking a process of institutional reform, designed to entrust the
export promotion agency the legal status of an association with the private sector in the majority.
In effect, taking into consideration the weak results obtained by CCIA and the fact that its
management is too administrative in nature, the Government has decided to create an organization
composing both the state and the private sector to take its place. The Conseil d'Administration of this
organization will be one-third state representatives and two-thirds representation from private operators. As
a result, the Government, by choosing the liquidator and limiting its personnel to the minimum necessary to
achieve liquidation, is in the process of liquidating CCIA.
Studies will be undertaken to set up quickly this new organization which will be managed by the
private sector and will be given necessary means (staff and materials) to ensure the flexibility and speed
necessary in today's context of global competition.
In addition, studies will be carried out to:
determine the feasibility of creating free zones and of establishing an export credit
insurance system;
identify the obstacles to development of subregional trade.
HLH.11 - Completion of the tariff structure adopted under the PASCO
The Government did not realize the consequences of adopting the PASCO tariff structure on the
special customs regime for assembly industries (regime monteur) in place since 1972, which has caused
distortions.
In the context of the present program, the Government will undertake to correct these distortions in
the Finance Laws of 1996 and 1997.
III. 12 - Liberalization of Maritime Insurance on imports
On the basis of the conclusions of a study to be undertaken, the Government commits itself to
abolish, during the year 1997, the obligation of all importers to have maritime insurance from an insurance
company established in Cote d'Ivoire.
signed by Theophile AlHOUA, Deputy Minister in charge of Planning and Industrial Development
March 11, 1996



55
Annex E
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Dates:
(a)    Time taken to prepare:                  12 months
(b)    Prepared by':                          Government with IDA assistance
(c)    First IDA mission:                     March 1995
(d)    Appraisal mission departure:           September 1995
(e)    Negotiations:                          February 1996
(f)    Relevant PCRs or PPARs:                PASCO (Cr. 2324-IVC), ERC (Cr. 2656-IVC)
This project was prepared by Ms. Elke Kreuzwieser (Sr. Economist, AF4TF), with support from Messrs. Maurice Klein
(Consultant), Michel Audige (AFTES), and Mme. Amparo Ballivian (AF4CO). Mr. Peter Watson and Mr. Olivier
Lafourcade are the managing division chief and department director, respectively, for this operation.



56
Run Date:    3/19/96
Data as of    3/18/96
Status of Bank Group Ope,ations in CMte d'lvoire
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original amount in USS million                     between expected
Project                Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   and actual
ID                  Credit No.  Year      Borrower                   Purpose                       IBRD            IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed   disbursements'
Number of Closed Loans/Credits:      76
Active Loans
Cl-PA-1157               L31550    1990 GOVTOFRCI    ABIDJANENVPROTECTI                                 21.90                                       2.82              2.82
Cl-PA-1168               L31S60    1990 GOVTOFRCI    FORESTRYSECTOR                                     80.00                        29.00         13.86             42.86
Cl-PA-I 192               L32510    1991 GOVT OF RCI    PILOT WOMEN IN DEVT.                             2.20                                       0.89              0.89
Cl-PA-1207               C23630    1992 GOVT OF RCI    PRIVATIZATION SUPPOR                                           15.00                        11.83             10.78
Cl-PA-I 187              C25030    1993 GOVT OF RCI    ECN MGMT TA                                                    17.00                         7.10               1.38
Cl-PA-1209               C25050    1993 GOVT OF RCI    HRD MANAGEMENT SUPPO                                            6.70                         4.31              3.06
Cl-PA-1210               C25970    1994 GOVT OF RCI    RURAL SAVINGS                                                   2.20                         1.84
Cl-PA-1193               C26360    1994 GOVTOFRCI    NAT'LAGRICULTURALS                                               21.80                        20.92             15.56
Cl-PA-1186               C26370    1994 GOVTOFRCI    LABORFORCETRAINING                                               17.00                        17.16              5.01
Cl-PA-37575               C27040    1995 GOVT OF RCI    MUNICIPAL SUPPORT                                             40.00                        38.39               1.45
Cl-PA-37581               C27490    1995 GOVTOFRCI    EXPORTPROMOTIONAND                                               5.83                         5.46               0.70
Cl-PA-I 184              C27540    1995 GOVT OF RCI    PRIVATE ELECTRICITY                                            79.66                        74.68              8.50
Cl-PA-35603               C27790    1996 GOVT OF RCI    AGRIC SECTORAL ADJUS                                          150.00                       84.87
Cl-PA-35603               C27791    1996 GOVT OF RCI    AGRIC SECTORAL ADJUS                                          73.60
Cl-PA-40115               C27860    1996 GOVT OF RCI    RAILWAYS REHAB                                                20.00                        19.92
TOTAL                                                                                                104.10        448.79          29.00        304.06            -37.59
Active Loans                     Closed Loans                         Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                   211.03                           3007.09                       3218.12
Of which repaid                                                  2.60                          1580.50                       1583.10
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                   521.29                           1404.12                       1925.41
Amount sold                                                        0.00                              5.10                          5.10
Of which repaid                                                  0.00                              5.10                          5.10
Total undisbursed                                                304.06                              0.00                        304.06
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



57
C8te d'Ivoire - Statement of IFC Investments
As of 2/29/96
(US$ million)
Original(;ftm ConimOinWenA
Fiscal                                                                                                                             IFC        IFC
Year                                     Ohligor                                              7ype of Business                   Loan      Lquity  Parlicipanis        Totals
1965   a/ Banque Ivofienne de Developpement Industriel, S.A.                      Financial Services                                         0.20                       0.20
1977      Etablissements R. Gonfreville, S.A.                                    Textiles                                                    0.8S                       0.S3
1978   a/ Banque Ivofienne de Developpement Industriel, S.A.                      Financial Services                                         0.22                       0.22
1980   a/ Moulin du Sud-Ouest                                                     Food and Agribusiness                           2.90       0.41                       3.31
1980   a/ Societe Ivorienne d'Engrais (Siveng)                                    Fertilizers and Agricultural Chemicals          5.12       1.27                       6.39
1987      Etablissements R. Gonfreville, S.A.                                    Textiles                                        12.01                                 12.01
1987      Omnium Chimique et Cosm6tique (COSMIVOIRE)                              Food and Agribusiness                           2.13                                  2.13
1988      Industnial Promotion Services (C6te dlvoire)                            Financial Services                                         0.S3                       0.83
1988      Societe des Industries Alimentaires et Laitieres "SIALIM'               Food and Agribusiness                           3.15       0.53                       3.6S
1990   a/ Omnium de Transformations Alimentaires S.A.                             Food and Agfibusiness                           0.66       0.17                       0.S3
1990      Pechazur. S.A.R.L.                                                      Food and Agribusiness                           0.47                                  0.47
1990      Societe des Industries Alimentaires et Laitieres "SIALIM'               Food and Agribusiness                           1.74       0.34                       2.08
1991   at Transformation lndustrielle de Bois (Tribois S.A.)                      Timber, Pulp and Paper                          0.37       0.1                       0.55
1992      Plantivoire                                                             Food and Agribusiness                           1.06                                  1.06
1993      Block Cl-II Hydrocarbon Development and Appraisal                       Mining and Extraction of Fuel Minerals                    11.40                      11.40
1993   a/ Ivoir-Caf, S A.                                                         Industrial and Consumer Services                0.09       0.01                       0.10
1993      Pdchazur.S.A.R.L.                                                       Food and Agribusiness                           0.61                                  0.61
1993      Societe Interagri S.A.                                                  Food and Agribusiness                           0.97                                  0.97
1994      Banque Atlantique-C6te d'voire                                          Financial Services                              5.34                                  5.34
1994      Filtisac S.A.                                                           Manufacturing                                   1.13                                  1.13
1994      Multi-Produits (SODIRO)                                                 Food and Agribusiness                           0.36                                  0.36
1994      Omnium Chimique et Cosmetique (COSMIVOIRE)                              Food and Agribusiness                           4.68       0.17                       4.35
1995      Block Cl-I I Hydrocarbon Development and Appraisal                      Mining and Extraction of Fuel Minerals                    27.30                      27.30
1995      Compagnie Ivoirienne de Production d'electricite                       Infrastructure                                  13.17       0.96                      19.13
1995      Laborex-C6te d'lvoire                                                  Industrial and Consumer Services                 3.08                                  3.03
1995      Societ6 Africaine de Credit Automobile/Societe Africaine de Credit-Bail  Financial Services
1996      Bereby-Finances S.A.                                                    Food and Agribusiness                                      3.05                       3.05
1996      FTG-Filature et Tissage Gonfreville                                     Textiles
1996      Global Natural Resources (C6te dIvoire) Limited                         Mining and Extraction of Fuel Minerals          7.50                    10.00        17.50
1996      Pluspetrol C6te d'Ivoire                                                Mining and Extraction of Fuel Minerals          7.50                    10.00        17.50
1996      Texicodi S.A.                                                           Textiles
1996      UMIC COte d'lvoire Corporation                                          Mining and Extraction of Fuel Minerals         15.00                    20.00        35.00
Total gross commitments b/                                                                                             94.04      47.92        40.00       11.96
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales                                                                    21.32       2.90         0.00         24.22
Total commitments now held c/                                                                                          72.72      45.02        40.00        157.74
Pending Commitments
UA-CI                                                                                                                              0.67                       0.67
Total pending commitments                                                                                               0.00       0.67         0.00          0.67
Total commitments held and pending commitments                                                                         72.72      45.69        40.00        15S.41
Total undisbursed commitments                                                                                           4.71       7.02         1.14         12.S7
a! Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investment.



58
Annex F
Status of Disbursement Performance in C8te d'Ivoire
Project Name              Cumulative Disbursement (%)
SAR Forecast     Sector/LI Profile
Labor Force Training                 86.0               31.6
National Agricultural Services       87.9                8.9
Privatization Support                73.5               47.0
HRD Management Support               55.7              -97.5
1.    National Agricultural Services Credit (Cr. 2636): The project initially had
procurement problems which have now been clearly identified and remedied. Several large
contracts (ICB procurement) have been signed and withdrawal requests are being processed.
2.    Human Resources Development Management Support Credit (Cr. 2505): The
disbursement lag reflects implementation delays that are attributed to several factors including
cumbersome procurement processes involving clearances from four ministries and other systemic
issues common to the country portfolio. This notwithstanding, the disbursement lag gradually
diminishes: from 71.5% in June 95, to 66.4% in September 1995 to 55.7% in February 1996.
3.    Privatization Support Credit (Cr. 2363): The project did not disburse as scheduled
during the first three years because the privatization program was very slow due to a number of
reasons among which: i) the difficult macro-economic situation which did not make the country
very attractive to investors; ii) the major political debate on privatization that occurred in 1993
between the Government and the National Assembly; and iii) the uncertainty created by the death
of the late President Houphouet Boigny at the end of 1993. However, the program gained
momentum in 1994 after the devaluation of the CFA franc and at the end of 1995, 28 out of the
60 enterprises slated for privatization had been privatized. The Government has requested an
extension of the closing date until December 31, 1997 to complete the program. It is currently
undertaking several key transactions including the telecoms company which is one of the
conditionalities of the PSD project. Current commitments on new contracts amount to least
US$3 million and it is expected that the undisbursed balance be disbursed by December 1997.
4.    Labor Force Training Credit (Cr. 2637): The low level of disbursement is explained
by the delays in project effectiveness (Board date: 6/28/94; effectiveness date: 6/22/95); in
addition, the time required to develop training projects and procure them has taken longer than
expected. The Credit has disbursed US$700,000 since effectiveness and the current level of
activities will lead to a significant increase in disbursement level before the end of the fiscal year
(estimated disbursement until June would be in excess of US$1.5 million); therefore, the current
disbursement lag is expected to be gradually reduced as project implementation accelerate.












IMAGING
Report No: P-   6746 IVC
Type: MOP



