Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19540
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSDAC)
(Credit No. 28430-IVC)
June 30, 1999
Private Sector Finance Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAC                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
AGEP                Employment Promotion Agency
APEX-CI             Export Promotion Agency
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CCIA                Government Export Promotion Agency
CEPICI              Investment Promotion Agency
CPA                 Certified Public Accountant
ERC                 Economic Recovery Credit
FNICI               Ivorian Industries Association
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
LDP                 Letter of Development Policy
OHADA               African Organization for Harmonization of Business Law
OIC                 Shippers' Council
OMOCI               State Employment Agency
PAGE                Economic Management Project
PASCO               Regulatory Framework and Competitiveness Adjustment Loan/Credit
PASFI               Financial Adjustment Loan/Credit
PSDAC               Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SITRAM              State Owned Shipping Line
SME                 Small and Medium Enterprises
TA                  Technical Assistance
TSAC                Transport Sector Adjustment Credit
VAT                 Value Added Tax
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =             CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                    -             CFAF 612 (March 1999)
CFA franc 1 million        =             US$1,680.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASIJRES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1-December 31
Vice President                  Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Acting Country Director         Chantal Dejou, AFC 11
Acting Technical Manager:       David Cook, AFTP 1
Task Team Leader        :       Elke Kreuzwieser, AFTPl



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................                                                          I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................II
PART 1- PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................1
A. BACKGROUND ................................................1
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN.                                                                              3
C. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION.                                                                                     7
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES ...................                                                       8
E. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...................................... 13
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ...................................... 13
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS ...................................... 15
H. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE ......................................                                             16
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES ......................................                                             17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .............................                                                 17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .............................                                             18
TABLE 3 : PROJECT TIMETABLE .                                                                                19
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................                 ...................... 19
TABLES 5 : KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (NOT APPLICABLE) ..............              ................... 20
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION (NOT APPLICABLE) .............................................. 20
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT (NOT APPLICABLE) ...............................................,.,.20
TABLE 8-A: PROJECT COSTS (NOT APPLICABLE) ..........                 ......................... .    ......... 20
TABLE 8-B: PROJECT FINANCING (NOT APPLICABLE) ..............................................                 20
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS (NOT APPLICABLE) .............................................. 20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .............................................. 21
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS (NOT APPLICABLE) ..........                     ........... 22
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...............................                                       22
TABLE 13 : BANK RESOURCES: STAFF MISSIONS ...................              ........................................ 22
APPENDIX A: MATRIX OF TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONALITIES ...............                                .................. 23
APPENDIX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE ...........................................................               31
APPENDIX C ...........................................................                                           36
SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION ........................................................... 37
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ...........................................................               39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSDAC)
(Credit 28430, Credit 28431 and Credit 28432-IVC)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Sector
Development Adjustment Credit in the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, for which Credit No.
28430-IVC in the amount of SDR 123.9 million (US$180 million equivalent) was
approved on April 11, 1996 and made effective on April 25, 1996. Two supplementary
Credits (Nos. 28431 -IVC and 28432-IVC) for a total of SDR 64 million (US$91.2 million
equivalent) were approved in November 1996 and December 1997, respectively, under the
Fifth Dimension Program.
2.    The credit closed on March 31, 1999, one year after the original closing date. This
was a six-tranche operation, which was fully disbursed by September 1998.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Messrs. J. Chevallier and J. Amprou and reviewed by
the country team. The Borrower's own evaluation of the credit is attached as Appendix
C.
4.    This ICR is based on material in the credit file and other related documents,
discussions with World Bank staff and government officials currently or formerly charged
with project implementation. The Borrower contributed to this report by commenting on
the draft ICR and evaluating the project's preparation and execution.
i






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSDAC)
(Credit 28430, Credit 28431 and Credit 28432-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Since independence in 1960, Cate d'Ivoire has followed an export-oriented policy
based on agricultural production, especially cocoa and coffee. This policy was highly
successful until the late 1970s, when a commodity boom generated excessive expectations
and led to overspending and heavy borrowing. In the late 1980s, Cate d'Ivoire pursued
an internal adjustment strategy, which did not achieve its objective of restoring growth.
The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 was a turning point for Cote d'Ivoire.
After seven years of recession, growth resumed and accelerated from 2 percent in 1994 to
7 percent in 1995/96 and 6 percent in 1997. Renewed competitiveness and favorable
terms of trade triggered a 50 percent growth of exports from 1994 to 1997. The share of
private investment in GDP increased from about 4 percent in 1994 to 11 percent in 1997,
and manufacturing production increased by about 60 percent from 1993 to 1998.
Program objectives and description
2.    As part of the post-devaluation Country Assistance Strategy, centered on a series
of sectoral adjustment operations to help Cote d'Ivoire fully reap the benefits of the
change in the parity, the Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC) was
designed in 1995-96, with the objectives of enhancing the business environment and
reducing business costs through reforms in the legal and regulatory framework,
improvement in the performance of key infrastructure (port and telecommunications),
investment and export promotion and reduction of domestic arrears. To address Cate
d'Ivoire's substantial financing needs and frequent resistance to change, the credit was
designed as an "omnibus operation," where five floating tranches would be released upon
compliance with any one of the five core and five non-core conditions. Satisfactory
performance under the domestic arrears repayment plan was a general condition of
disbursement for all tranches.  The credit was approved in April 1996.  Two
supplementary credits were extended in November 1996 and December 1997 under the
Fifth Dimension Program.
Implementation experience and results
3.    The Government has implemented the reform program supported by PSDAC, but
with some delays. Credit effectiveness and the release of the first tranche occurred two
weeks after Board approval. The second tranche was released in July 1996, three months
ii



later. There was a one-year delay thereafter, before conditions were met for the release of
the third tranche. One of the factors in the delay was the difficulty for the Government to
demonstrate it had eliminated domestic arrears at end- 1996. The fourth and fifth tranches
were released in October and December 1997. Finally the sixth tranche was released in
August 1998.
4.    To oversee program implementation, the Government established a Steering
Committee including representatives from all ministries and public agencies concerned,
and chaired by the Deputy Chief in the Prime Minister's Office. The chairman and many
members of the Committee stayed on during the entire duration of program
implementation. The private sector was not represented on the Steering Commnittee,
however, and the technical committee established during program preparation to ensure
close coordination between the public and private sectors no longer convened. Ad-hoc
meetings took place two or three times a year to solve pressing issues.
5.    Overall, the outcome of the program is rated partially satisfactory. Considerable
progress was made in some areas, but little was achieved in others. The areas where
substantial progress was made include maritime transport liberalization, the port and
customs operations, telecommunications, the investment code, the business laws, the
settlement of domestic arrears, and the labor legislation. The areas where little or no
progress was achieved include the judicial system, the tax administration, and the
competition committee. There is a sensitive area where there was some backtracking,
namely the dialogue between Government and the private sector. The reforms in maritime
transport liberalization, ports and customs operations, telecommunications, investment
code, business laws and labor legislation are likely to be sustained, but the sustainability of
reforms in elimination of domestic arrears is uncertain. Not much was achieved in the area
of institutional development.  The reform  program  has eliminated some areas of
discretionary power granted to the administration, but more remains to be done in this
respect.
Lessons from experience
*  To be successful, private sector adjustment operations require the continued
commitment of all stakeholders concerned, including the private sector.
*  Action plans or committees are no substitute for commitment.
*  The "omnibus concept" served its purpose well.
*  Clear and monitorable indicators should have been agreed upon among all parties
concerned, and a monitoring and evaluation mechanism should have been put in place.
.i.i



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PSDAC)
(Credit 28430, Credit 28431 and Credit 28432-IVC)
PART 1 - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    On January 12, 1994, CMte d'Ivoire, along with the other members of the CFA
franc zone, devalued their common currency, the CFA franc, from its fixed parity of 50
CFA francs per French franc to a new parity of 100 CFA francs per French franc. The
devaluation took place after a prolonged period of economic recession in the 13 CFA
member countries, resulting from a deterioration of the terms of trade and a significant
appreciation of the CFA franc since the mid-eighties. The devaluation was a turning point
for C6te d'Ivoire. After seven years of recession, growth resumed and accelerated from 2
percent in 1994 to 7 percent in 1995/6 and 6 percent in 1997. Renewed competitiveness
and favorable terms of trade triggered a 50 percent growth of exports from 1994 to 1997.
The share of private investment in GDP increased from about 4 percent in 1994 to 11
percent in 1997 and manufacturing production increased by about 60 percent from 1993
to 1998.
Chart 1: Gross Domestic Investment
as % of GDP
18.0%
1680%
14.00%
12.0%
8.0%
6.0%
4.0%
2.0%
02.00%
E Total Gross Dornestic Investn-ert M Gross Private Irwvestnrert 0 Foreign D)rect Irnvestment
Source: World Bank, Africa Regional Database



Chart 2: Manufacturing Production Index
199          1994 , _              9         1          1.98
Souce Repbl, of, C,te- .-Iaoir, Ministry of F-inac ad Economyi 
ndxfr1993 isetimSS5.ate.-W    ,a.sse.WS'.$ .sZ         ? :   saa
based on agriculturas,,,,s,l-s-s production, especially coco,,-2. a a nd coffee,,SS-.:a    Thi poic  was highly
successfu until th  Xlae17s w>...'.'a*'hen.a. a a< commoditys boomW gener .  'ate  excea. '3ta ''ssiv   xecain
~~~~~~X  -.'adjsten  prgam.......:'  supre  by- ' i'' t the's Bank. Good progress' was made bu,st arting'.in
1985, th  CFA franc, appecated  shapl  in..     reato  to the US dollar.  Thi wa  soo
~~~~~0.}.at th.at tim.  an th  abec  of this opton  to r-stablsh the comettienssa of is?aaa--
to~~~~~~~      sto  ther ecnoi  declin. r During??   tat pe?r?iod  the3333  B333 an  extended aa series33  of?3?
adjustment~2,a? loran?s,3a-..fa includig the2 Reuatory; Framwrk an  Coptiiens ?Adjsten
3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .::S PASCO' obetvs wer to re?.-?  ?store??   economic competitivener .,,  2?E2.ss:§55 ???.s:.?.:sss   thrug  acin  in2 ?s ..
the~~~~~~~~~~R '2.g..tr?B? area  ofs tax-s refrm  export incentivs,a trnsot,??  ? logi::::BBstic?BBBBs,? lao  marke  flexibility
broadly~~~~~~ th  sam   ,as thse covered bys th  operatio  unde reie (BDA) ands progress E Bs., ,g.sB   ,ss    gssss
underASCourand lessonsc ofrCome  expoie,MnsryoFieance wilba dsusd   aspatofthnaayssyo
2.AC Thne imdplemdentation Competio RoepdIoirt (ICR forlPASCO was exotoissued ino1995
'oased oailrpoco epilcoa cfe
sucssu  ntlte ae190,whnacomdiybomgnrae   xcsie7xetain
an   edt  oesenig  n  hayborwig   I   91,CtedIvieintatda
adjustmen~~t poga suprebyteBn.Goprgeswsmd,btsatign
195 teCA  rn  apecae  sapy nreain  ote   Sdolr  Ti   asso
economy, Coureeulco te d'Ivoire , pusud inisteryfFnanc andjustmntoliymhchpoeynsfiin
2o  stopnte indeomicdencline   During C tha d   pierisolow,ted Bank expot-oriednaterie polic
sduccsstulentloas nldn the Rglate17swhnacmodit bomeork generte Cmetitveessiv expecttions
LandCredito ovrPending and he4)avy boeFfoingnia Indjustmen doan/Crediiiate (PSF,nr
2303), btheF rn approved  iate  sharpl Floingrlto the  deauto fthe USdllr   ATi frasc soon
aggravtandin balances collapse tofoo adjsmnd coansfere prices.lred statio repalled with IA
at thAtSCmeO'nth abjetvswene tof thisotion, economicalihh competitiveness truhaions its
the aestop the   reoorm,c dciexport  ringetvs thatsperod, loithes Babor extenedt flerieslity
adjutmentaloas inxencludn thmetiin Reudiciary Fraeworm and Coesmpetitivoe.nTess adjustaren
broan/rdiyth (PsCO, Crs 2324e anerdb the operancial Adustment reieo(SAnCredi PaSFI prores
2303er PASCO appovd iesns 1991m Followience thle devalussdationr of the CAfanc,si the
theDArea.o Tax Impefom,entatort ioplentives tRanport   logitics laor    mAC arke  flsedxibility,



It rated its outcome satisfactory and its sustainability, likely. PASFI's objectives were to
stabilize the financial system and restore a healthy intermediation to enhance resource
mobilization and help finance productive investments. The ICR for this operation was
issued in 1996.  It noted that, given the unfavorable circumstances prior to the
devaluation, the program was surprisingly successful in attaining the objectives that had
been set out, though some not in their entirety. It contributed to the success of the
devaluation.
4     Following the devaluation, Cote d'Ivoire was declared eligible for IDA credits
only.  The Government reformulated its adjustment program  and a new Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) was presented to the Board in June 1994. Its main priorities
were to achieve macroeconomic stability, promote private sector development, and
improve the efficiency of resources in the social sectors. In view of C8te d'Ivoire's high
indebtedness, including to the Bank, the CAS proposed an exceptionally high level of
support, mostly through adjustment lending. The first adjustment operation was a one-
tranche Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) approved in October 1994. It was to be
followed by sectoral adjustment operations in agriculture, transport, private sector
development and finance. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC, Cr. 2779)
was the first sectoral operation to be approved (September 1995). It was followed by the
PSDAC, which was approved in April 1996, and the Transport Sector Adjustment Credit
(TSAC, Cr. 3100), which was approved in June 1998.
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
5.    Program objectives. Building upon achievements under PASCO and PASFI, the
PSDAC was designed to increase external and internal competitiveness and actively
promote investment and exports by achieving a critical mass of structural improvements to
the business environment through (i) reform of the legal and regulatory framework to
improve productivity and reduce business costs and risks; (ii) reduction of specific costs
and delays in the port/customs area and improvement of telecommunication services
through privatization; and (iii) improvement of investment and export promotion. The
reform program was also aimed at increasing private sector confidence in Government
through regular dialogue and the elimination of domestic arrears owed to the private
sector.
6.    Program design. An innovative approach to tranche design and sequencing was
proposed to address C6te d'Ivoire's substantial financing needs and frequent resistance to
adjustment from vested interests. The operation introduced the concept of an "omnibus
operation," where the first tranche (US$80 million) was to be disbursed upon credit
effectiveness on the basis of reforms already implemented before Board presentation, and
five smaller tranches of US$20 million each were to be released as soon as a certain
number of other conditions had been met. Reflecting the reality that some conditions are
more important than others, each tranche release was to be triggered by compliance with
one core condition (or a package of related core conditions where it was necessary to
ensure coherence through simultaneous implementation) and one non-core condition, in
3



addition to demonstrating satisfactory progress in the overall program as put forth in the
letter of development policy. The credit was approved in April 1996. Two supplementary
credits under the Fifth Dimension Program for a total of US$91.2 million were approved
in November 1996 and December 1997.
7.    Reform program. The policy reform areas below were supported by the credit.
8.    Reform of the legal and regulatory environment
a) Reform of business laws and judicial system. Progress in legal reform was mixed under
PASCO. There was no conditionality in this area, which was supervised under PASFI and
the Economic Management Project (PAGE, Cr. 2503), a technical assistance project.
PSDAC's objectives under this component were to update the business laws, improve the
functioning of the judiciary and support the establishment of an arbitration court for
commercial cases. A Technical Assistance project, planned to be a companion to PSDAC,
was designed to help, among other measures, with the dissemination of the new business
laws, a first set of which was approved by Cote d'Ivoire and 15 other (mostly French
speaking) countries in 1996 under the so-called OHADA initiative. This first set of
business laws became effective in 1998. The TA project was also expected to contribute
to the effective functioning of the arbitration court established in 1995. This project was
approved with much delay in June 1998 only, but, in the meantime, alternative financing
became available to contribute to achieving some of PSDAC's objectives. Regarding
improving the efficiency of the judiciary, the objective was to speed up the reform agenda
initiated under a French legal support operation and PAGE. Adoption of a short-term
monitorable action plan was a condition of Board presentation for PSDAC, and its
implementation a core condition for tranche release.
b) Revision of tax procedures and penalties. Under PASCO good progress was made in
the rationalization of the Ivorian fiscal system through reduction of profit taxes and
extension of value added tax (VAT) eligibility. Further progress was made in the property
tax and the single tax system for small businesses in 1994 and 1995. A major shortcoming
remained in system implementation, however, with excess discretionary power of the tax
administration. PSDAC supported the revision of tax procedures to establish clear rules
governing the respective rights and obligations of taxpayers and tax administration and
introduce pre-set penalties for each type of infringement.  The publication of clear
procedures and penalties in a separate section of the tax code was a non-core tranche
release condition.
c) Labor legislation. Under PASCO the Government agreed to introduce more flexibility
to the Ivorian labor conditions. A new labor code was approved by Parliament in 1995
and the hiring monopoly of the state employment agency (OMOCI) was eliminated. The
labor code did not become effective, however, in the absence of implementation decrees.
In addition, legislation was needed for the establishment of private recruitment and
temporary job agencies. The publication of at least five implementation decrees, which
were to include private recruitment and temporary job agencies, was a condition of Board
presentation for PSDAC, and the publication of the full set of 21 implementation decrees
4



for the labor code was a non-core condition of tranche release. The ICR for PASCO
noted that AGEPE, the new Government placement agency that replaced OMOCI, had a
conflict of interest resulting from its regulatory powers over private sector agencies that it
competed with. This was not corrected under PSDAC, but it became irrelevant in practice
because most private firms do not use the services of AGEPE.
d) Trade liberalization and internal competition. Important changes were made during
PASCO and pursued under the ERC in trade liberalization. Under ASAC further progress
was to be made with the removal of non-tariff barriers on agricultural products and inputs.
A new tariff structure with rates ranging from 10 to 35 percent was implemented in
1993/94. Exceptions in favor of assembly industries were maintained, however. They
were to be removed in two steps under PSDAC, the first one as a Board condition and the
second as a non-core condition for tranche release. Despite the publication of a new
competition law in 1991, barriers to entry subsisted in several sectors. Elimination of
these barriers was to be done in two steps, one as a Board condition, and the other as a
non-core tranche release condition. A specific barrier to entry concerned the accounting
profession. As a non-core condition for tranche release, the Government agreed to define
clearly the conditions for equivalency of the CPA diploma. Finally, the program sought to
reinforce the Competition Committee through a set of changes, including drawing more
members from the private sector, and the possibility for individual firms to submit cases to
the Committee directly. These changes were a non-core condition for tranche release.
9.    Reduction of operating costs and improvement of quality of services
a) Streamlining of port procedures. Under PASCO several measures were taken to speed
up the customs processing and the admission of merchandise arriving into CMte d'Ivoire.
Further progress in reducing clearance and delivery time was expected under PSDAC. To
improve dialogue among private operators and port authorities, the Port Competitiveness
Committee was created as a condition for Board presentation. As a core condition for
tranche release, a set of performance indicators were to be met, covering both port and
customs procedures.
b) Simplification of customs procedures. The customs control system in the port of
Abidjan was the source of severe congestion, as all containers used to be lined up in a
special area awaiting control. Under PSDAC, the customs administration was to switch to
the concept of risk management, resulting in less inspections, and to eliminate many
manual procedures, which served no purpose other than providing opportunities for
"transaction costs".  To improve the transparency in administrative regulations and
penalties, a User's Guide was to be adopted and published as a non-core condition of
tranche release.
c) Maritime transport. In the past, restrictive practices in favor of the state-owned
shipping line SITRAM had involved considerable cost and poor service for importers and
exporters. With support from the ERC, partial liberalization of specialized traffic took
place in 1994, and the mandatory visa of Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs (OIC) for loading
general merchandise from or to Cote d'Ivoire was abolished in 1995. In the same year,
5



SITRAM was liquidated. To ensure the full benefits of liberalization of maritime transport
to private operators, however, three measures were deemed necessary, including a decree
completing liberalization of bulk and refrigerated traffic, and another one establishing
transparent criteria for chartering vessels. Both decrees were enacted as conditions of
Board presentation for PSDAC. The shippers' council (OIC), which had become a
Government agency in charge of freight allocation, was to return to its initial role of
defending shippers' interests and supplying services to them, such as the use of OIC-
owned bonded warehouses. This required a change in its statutes and ownership. The
transfer of a majority share of its capital to the private sector, including small shippers,
was a non-core condition of tranche release. Finally the obligation for all freight to C6te
d'Ivoire to be insured with an Ivorian insurance company was to be removed as a non-
core tranche release condition. This was expected to reduce the cost to importers.
Further reforrns in the transport sector, particularly in the road sub-sector, were expected
to be carried out under TSAC.
d) Telecommunications. In 1995, CMte d'Ivoire enacted a telecommunications law
allowing competition for basic services and the creation of an independent regulatory
body. The next step was the privatization of the telecommunications company, CI-
TELCOM. This was a core condition for tranche release under PSDAC.
10.   Investment and export promotion
a) Simplification of investment procedures. Following adoption of a new Investment
Code in 1995, a one-stop window "Centre pour la Promotion de / 'Investissement en C6te
d'Ivoire" (CEPICI) was established. Its procedures needed streamlining to ensure that it
would indeed be a one-stop window. This was achieved through implementation of an
action plan agreed upon under PSDAC. As noted in the ICR for PASCO, the new
investment code adopted in 1995 satisfies the criteria of simplicity, accountability and
transparency, but gives bigger privileges to bigger companies, which runs contrary to the
Govermnent stated policy of SME promotion. In an annex to the letter of development
policy (LDP), the Government outlined an action plan for streamlining procedures by
eliminating or merging registration requirements with different public agencies.
Implementation of this action plan was to be supported by the parallel TA project.
b) Export promotion. Under PASCO all export licenses were eliminated in 1992. Many
obstacles remained, however, for Ivorian exporters, including high cost of pre-financing,
absence of export guarantees, and complexity and delays in foreign exchange procedures.
These issues were to be addressed with support from the parallel TA project. Under
PSDAC the Government agreed to liquidate the Centre de Commerce International
d'Abidjan (CCIA), an inefficient public agency in charge of export promotion. The
creation of a privately run export development agency was a core condition of tranche
release. The agency was expected to operate on partial, but gradually increasing, cost
recovery basis. Initial funding was expected to be provided by the parallel TA project.
6



11.  Increased Private Sector Confidence in the Government
0.
a) Settlement of domestic arrears owed to the private sector. The persistence of large
domestic arrears was one of the most contentious issues. Good progress was made in
reducing arrears from the equivalent of 8.6 percent of GDP to 2.5 percent during the two-
year period from December 1993 to December 1995. In May 1995, the Government
announced the elimination of remaining arrears by the end of 1996.  Satisfactory
performance under the repayment plan was a general condition for disbursement of all
tranches.
b) Regular dialogue between the Government and the Private sector. A ComiW de
Liaison Secteur Public/Secteur Prive has existed since 1991, but the private sector
contended that the Government called meetings only in crisis situations and took unilateral
action without a real dialogue, and did not even inform the private sector of the reasons
for its decisions. Preparation of PSDAC was coordinated by a Technical Committee
comprising private and public sector representatives.  Moreover, a Private Sector
Development Committee chaired by the Prime Minister and comprising the Minister of
Industry and Commerce, the Minister of Economy and Finance, the President of the
Conseil National du Patronnat Ivoirien and the President of the Chamber of Commerce
and Industry was to meet periodically to make decisions on important policy matters.
After Board approval, the Comite de Liaison was revived under more operational
arrangements to follow up on the implementation of the reform program.
C. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
12.   The Government has implemented the reform program supported by PSDAC, but
with some delays. The credit was made effective on April 25, 1996, less than two weeks
after Board approval, and the first tranche was released. The second tranche was
released three months later. The core condition met was the dissolution of CCIA, the
government export promotion agency, and the non-core condition was the publication of
the remaining Labor Code implementation decrees. It took a full year, however, before
the third tranche was released in July 1997, following the privatization of CI-TELCOM
(core condition) and the adoption by the National Assembly of the 1997 Budget, including
revised tax procedures and penalties (non-core condition). The sale of 51 percent of CI-
TELCOM was finalized in February 1997 and the 1997 Budget Law was approved in
April 1997, but, only in July 1997 was the Government able to demonstrate that it had
eliminated domestic arrears at end-1996, except for a small amount. The fourth tranche
was released in October 1997 following full implementation of the action plan for legal
and judicial reform (core condition) and the publication of revised customs procedures and
penalties in the 1997 Budget Law (non-core condition). The fifth tranche was released
in December 1997 following the privatization of OIC (core condition) and the elimination
of the requirement for importers to underwrite maritime insurance with companies
established in Cote d'Ivoire (non-core condition). Finally, the last tranche was released
in August 1998. The last two conditions included the streamlining of port and customs
procedures (core condition) and further liberalization of economic activities and reform of
7



the competition policy (non-core). At the time of tranche release, the arrears to the
private sector amounting to the equivalent of US$1 million were deemed compatible with
normal payment delays. The closing date of the credit was postponed by one year to
March 31, 1999.
13.   To oversee program implementation, the Government established a Steering
Comrnittee which included representatives from all ministries and public agencies
concerned and was chaired by the Deputy Chief in the Prime Minister's Office. The
chairman and many members of the Committee stayed on during the entire duration of
program implementation.  The private sector was not represented in the Steering
Committee, however, and the Technical Committee and the sub-committees established
during program preparation to ensure close coordination between the public and private
sectors no longer convened. The high level Private Sector Development Committee is
documented to have met only once. The Liaison Commnittee continued ad hoc meetings
two or three times a year to solve pressing issues.
14    The postponement of the parallel TA operation, which was expected to provide
assistance in a number of areas, was a minor factor in program implementation delays.
This operation was eventually approved, but in June 1998 only, more than two years after
PSDAC. This delay was due mostly to disagreements between the Government and the
Bank on the role and responsibilities of the new export promotion agency and on the
qualifications of its general manager. Initial Government proposals were found by the
Bank to give too much weight to the public sector. The recently approved TA project is
expected to help with export and investment promotion and support further strengthening
of the legal and judicial system, including the operation of the new arbitration court
established by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
15.   The major risk foreseen during preparation of the operation was that of uneven
implementation, including backtracking in some areas. It was felt that the departments in
charge of implementation might be reluctant to relinquish their discretionary power, or
that the elements of the private sector which had previously benefited from rents and lack
of transparency would not support the reform agenda vigorously enough. To mitigate
these risks, close monitoring of program implementation by Bank staff was deemed
necessary, and the broadening of the dialogue with the private sector beyond the official
trade associations, which was initiated during program preparation, was to be pursued.
These risks materialized and program implementation suffered from the insufficient
dialogue between the Government and the private sector, and from the resistance of some
departments to relinquish their discretionary power.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
Macroeconomic stability
16.   The Government has controlled inflation following the parity change and has
maintained the competitiveness gains from the devaluation. It met its revenue and
8



expenditure targets and maintained primary surpluses of about 3.1 percent of GDP in both
1996 and 1997. This was achieved through tax reform and expenditure control. The
public sector wage bill fell from 11 percent of GDP in 1993 to 6 percent in 1997, and the
number of civil servants has declined from 52,246 in 1993 to 42,778 in 1997. With
support from donors and creditors, the Government has managed its external debt
effectively. In March 1998, Cote d'Ivoire was declared eligible for support under the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative.
Chart 3: Number of Civil Servants in CentralAdministration
(excluding teachers)
60,000.
50,000                     6
40,000
30,000     1                  1               lE
20,000
10 0 0..-...  ., , .9..R>Z  o-<   i ...  
1993     1994     1995     1996      1997
Source: Republic of Cote d'lvoire
Reform of the legal and regulatory environment
17.   The ORADA reforms including enactment of new business laws for all the 16
countries involved and the establishment of a Regional Court of Appeals have been
implemented. The action plan for legal and judicial reform has been implemented,
including (i) the reactivating of the General Inspectorate of judicial services with the
appointment of three inspectors; (ii) the creation of an Arbitration Court at the Abidjan
Chamber of Commerce; (iii) the reform of judicial procedures to shorten the duration
of law suits; (iv) the acceleration of court procedures through opening of "stamp
offices" within the courts of appeals; (v) the establishment of a national legal
information center to improve access to legal information; (vi) the reform of the office
of the clerks of court; (vii) the construction of a court building in Yopougon, a large
suburb of Abidjan; (viii) the training of magistrates and clerks of court; and (ix) a
communication campaign.
18.   The implementation of the action plan has not improved the functioning of the
judicial system, however.  Indeed, the deterioration has continued unabated.
Magistrates are poorly motivated. Their operating budget is insignificant. The reform
did not clarify the role of the clerks of court, who collect fees paid by the plaintiffs, but
are not accountable for the way these public revenues are spent. Court rulings are
9



delivered with considerable delays, and may differ from the decisions made during
court proceedings. Often, well established businesses have no choice but to settle out
of court when they are confronted with abusive legal actions, or when they try to
enforce contracts. A far reaching reform of the judiciary is essential for a healthy
development of the private sector. Such a reform cannot succeed, however, without a
strong comnmitment from the Government.
19.   The 1997 budget law included a separate section of the Tax Code detailing tax
procedures and penalties, with the objective of guaranteeing the rights and
obligations of both parties. The draft of this section was discussed extensively with
the private sector. It provided for informing taxpayers in advance of an impending
audit and proof of charges lying with the tax administration. Penalties were set at
different rates for fraudulent intention or for simple negligence.  A conciliation
committee composed of administration and private sector members was established.
These reforms have not brought about any significant changes in administration
practices, however. The discretionary power of the administration is still considered a
problem by the private sector. Many agents have not changed their predatory
behavior, responsibilities are unclear, and the texts need further clarification through
implementation notes, reducing the scope for inconsistent interpretations.  The
conciliation committee has not been convened during program implementation, and the
taxpayers are deprived of real judicial recourse.
20.   The publication of 21 implementation decrees of the Labor Code in 1996 was
an important step in introducing more flexibility in labor relations and improved the
operating conditions of private recruitment agencies. The elimination of the hiring
monopoly of OMOCI, the state employment agency, was a major step forward. Most
large firms now use the services of private recruitment agencies. The sharp reduction
in the discretionary power of the labor administration is a welcome change.
21.   There remains, however, an issue with the role played by AGEPE, and a
disagreement between the Government and the private sector concerning the hiring of
foreigners. AGEPE, which replaced OMOCI and was set up to monitor employment
trends, tends to act increasingly as a regulatory body. It delivers work permits for
foreigners and charges a hefty fee, particularly for non Africans. These fees are
retained by the agency for funding its programs, including credit for employment
creation. These programs are a waste of resources. The repayment rate under its
credit schemes is less than 10 percent. It is not monitoring employment satisfactorily.
Its analysis of employment in the modern sector for 1996 was not available in October
1998, at the time of the ICR mission. The Government should commission an audit of
AGEPE, and consider reallocating its resources (about CFAF 2.5 billion a year, i.e.
about one half of the budget allocated to the Ministry of Justice) to more useful
purposes.
22.   A number of measures were taken to improve the competition policy and
further liberalize production and domestic marketing activities. The 1991 law which
established the Competition Committee was amended to extend to individual firms and
10



consumer associations the possibility to file complaints regarding competition matters
and to give the Committee the right to take up cases itself. A 1996 decree modified
the composition of the Committee, increasing its membership from seven to nine, of
which five from the private sector. It also increased compensation of committee
members.  These reforms have not enhanced the credibility of the Committee,
however. There is not much interest in Government or in the private sector in its
functioning. Annual reports of the Committee have not been published. The private
sector is more concerned with competition from informal activities, particularly illegal
imports, which is not part of the Committee mandate, than from restrictive practices.
Consumers' associations have no clout. There is a risk of increased concentration of
economic powers in the hands of a few, and it is important for CMte d'Ivoire to revisit
the institutional framework in charge of implementing its competition policy, including
the role of the Ministry of Commerce and the role of the regulatory agencies
established for the privatization of infrastructure.
23.   An extensive review of restricted or regulated activities in Cote d'Ivoire
concluded that out of 152 activities identified, access to 35 was not restricted
administratively, but subject to qualification criteria and regulated by the profession
itself Twelve activities were liberalized during program implementation (including
private schools, travel agencies, consulting firms, car repair, restaurants, etc.). Access
to 38 activities will continue to be restricted, mainly for health and safety reasons,
leaving 67 other activities for which further liberalization is under consideration.
Access to the accounting profession has been opened up by official recognition of the
CPA diploma with the French expert-comptable diploma.
Reduction of operating costs and improvement of quality of services
24.   In July 1998 the Government furnished satisfactory evidence that the Abidjan
port and customs office had complied with pre-set performance indicators over the
preceding six-month period. The most important aspect of this core condition for
tranche release was to reduce the average port transit time for import containers to 7
days from an average of 16 days in early 1996. The three-day target for export
containers was achieved in 1997, taking into account the closing date requirement by
shipping companies. The change in customs office procedures resulted in achieving a
24-hour average processing time for "green circuit merchandise" (goods subject to
automatic clearance) and 48-hour average processing time for "red circuit
merchandise" (goods subject to systematic control). The performance of the two
gantry cranes improved markedly. The streamlining of transit procedures and
increased technical performance were critical factors which helped the port of Abidjan,
through which about 85 to 90 percent of Ivorian foreign trade transits, to cope
successfully with a 50 percent increase in import volume from January 1994 to January
1998.  The improvement in port performance, combined with the maritime
liberalization which took place as a Board condition for PSDAC, resulted in a
reduction of freight rates ranging from 30 to 50 percent, according to private
importers.
11



25.   As indicated earlier, CI-TELCOM, the telecommunications company, was
privatized in February 1997. After international competitive bidding, 51 percent of its
equity was sold to a private consortium led by France Cable et Radio. The
privatization of CI-TELCOM stopped a long process of decline. The network was in
need of rehabilitation, the accounts had not been properly kept since 1991, and all
performance ratios were on the low side. The cost of international communications
was high to compensate for a low tariff on domestic communications. Following the
privatization, a rehabilitation program was initiated, and improved management led to
a gradual change in performance indicators. For instance, the ratio of revenue to staff
increased by more than 50 percent from January 1997 (immediately before
privatization) to October 1998. At the same time the opening up of the cellular phone
market to competition, which took place before PSDAC, led to an explosion in
subscriptions. The number of customers increased tenfold from 6,500 in January 1997
to 65,000 in October 1998. The number of fixed lines increased from 115,000 to
170,000 during the same period. A major problem which remains to be solved for CI-
TELCOM is the payment of government bills, representing on average 5 to 6 percent
of its turnover. Arrears in October 1998 were higher than a full year of consumption.
Investment and export promotion
26.   Investment procedures were further simplified during PSDAC. CEPICI, the
investment promotion agency established as a one-stop window for investors in 1995,
contributed to a considerable shortening of the period needed for obtaining approval
of benefits under the investment code and for registering companies. With support
from the recently approved TA project, CEPICI will improve its targeting of investors
and investment procedures will be further simplified, including the elimination of
unnecessary reporting requirements to different government agencies.
27.   Under PSDAC, CCIA, the ineffective government export promotion agency,
was liquidated, and APEX-Cl, a new agency, was created in 1996 as a private sector,
not-for-profit organization. Initiation of its operations was delayed, however, pending
effectiveness of the TA project, which was expected to provide support. APEX-Cl
will manage. a cost sharing grant scheme to assist existing or potential exporters in
obtaining professional services, and will supply exporters with information services
and links to world markets.
Increased private sector confidence in Government
28.   The objective of increased private sector confidence in Government was to be
achieved through the elimination of domestic arrears and an improved framework for
dialogue between the Government and the private sector. The arrears reduction
program was successful, though at times difficult to implement. However, the issue
remains a serious one, as mentioned in the case of Cl-TELECOM. As indicated
earlier, the dialogue mechanisms established during the preparation of the program
were not used during its implementation. This objective of the program was not
achieved.
12



E. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   The Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision of the operation was satisfactory. The design of the operation, with six
floating tranches to be released at any time when two conditions were met, was an
innovative way to help a severely indebted country move at its own pace on a number
of important reforms, and, at the same time, meet its obligations under its debt
payment schedule. This design was intended to relieve the pressure to disburse, which
is often found in traditional adjustment operations with fixed tranche conditionality.
The pairing of one core and one non-core condition for tranche release was a good
feature, which reflected the reality that certain actions are more important than others,
but also that the combination of all of them is critical for a program to succeed. It is
not clear, however, why the dissolution of CCIA (the export agency), to take just one
example, was a core condition.
30.   Supervision was intensive. Combined with the preparation of the TA project,
it allowed for a continuous dialogue with the authorities on private sector
development. The delay in preparing the parallel TA project was a negative factor in
the implementation of the reform program, but a minor one. Several activities that
were expected to be carried out with financial support from the project were delayed.
Previous adjustment operations in Cote d'Ivoire had suffered from a weak
implementation capacity, and it was felt that a companion TA project was needed to
finance studies, training, initial support to private providers of business services, and
information and communication activities.
31.   The performance of the Borrower was highly satisfactory during the
preparation of the program. The private sector was heavily involved in the design of
the reform program and expected a considerable improvement in the business climate
during its implementation. This did not happen, however, in the key areas of justice
and tax administration. It was also expecting that the proceeds from the credit would
be directly channeled to private sector activities. This misunderstanding was not
cleared up front and contributed to a lingering atmosphere of distrust. The dialogue
structures established for program preparation were not allowed to properly function
during implementation. The private sector felt excluded from the decision making
process. The reform program was implemented, but in several areas more in the form
than in substance, as indicated earlier.  Consequently, the performance of the
Borrower during program implementation is rated as partially satisfactory.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABEITY
32.   The expected benefits of the adjustment operation were cast in general terms in
the project document. Successful implementation of the program was seen as a critical
condition for renewed private sector confidence, overall economic growth and
13



increased employment opportunities. The improvement in the judicial and legal
environment was expected to strengthen the enforceability of contracts, reduce the
opportunities for graft, and boost investor confidence. The reduction of operating
costs and delays in infrastructure services was expected to improve the profitability of
business operations. No mechanism was set up to monitor and evaluate results.
33.   During the ICR mission in October 1998, FNICI, the largest industrialist
association, carried out a survey of its membership on the achievements of the reform
program. The questionnaire was filled out by 42 companies. Its main results are in
Box 1. Also, FNICI organized three panels to discuss the issues related to labor
legislation, tax procedures and penalties, and port and customs operations. The
assessment of the outcome of the program takes into account the results of the survey
and the findings of the three panels.
34.   Overall, the outcome of the program  is rated partially  satisfactory.
Considerable progress was made in some areas, but little was achieved in others. The
areas where substantial progress was made include maritime liberalization, the port
and customs operations, telecommunications, the investment code, the business laws,
the reduction of domestic arrears, and the labor legislation. The areas where little or
no progress was achieved include the judicial system, tax administration, and the
competition committee. There is a sensitive area where there was some backtracking,
namely the dialogue between Government and the private sector. Relations between
the Government and the private sector did not improve during implementation of
PSDAC. They were undermined by pervasive corruption and fraud. The reform
program has eliminated some areas of discretionary power granted to the
administration, but more remains to be done in this respect.
35.   The  reforms in  maritime  transport, ports and  customs operations,
telecommunications, investment code, business laws and labor legislation are likely to
be sustained, but the sustainability of reforms in domestic arrears elimination is
uncertain. Not much was achieved in the area of institutional development.
Box 1: Results of the survey carried out by FNICI
1 4



G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   The operation of the regional institutions, which have been set up under the
OHADA treaties, depend on the willingness of member countries to contribute. The
operation of the judicial system is not satisfactory. It is unrealistic to expect the
magistrates to perform according to widely accepted international standards when
their operating budget is negligible and, more importantly, when corruption in all
spheres of government continues unabated. The operation of the tax authorities needs
to become more transparent and business-like through a major effort, including
intensive training of staff, publication of clear guidelines, and effective functioning of
the conciliation committee. AGEPE should be streamlined and its budget considerably
reduced. It should gear up to produce employment data on time and cease to interfere
in regulatory matters or to act as a bank. The Competition Committee should be
redesigned in close consultation with the private sector. Its mandate should be
broadened to cover all aspects of unfair competition, except as concerns monopolies
or oligopolies in the infrastructure sector, which are regulated by special agencies. A
streamlining of the  ministry in charge of commerce should be considered, since many
tasks it used to perform are no longer needed. Savings would be used to fund the
Committee and other regulatory bodies.  Further progress in port and custom
operations would enhance CBte d'Ivoire's role as a regional hub.  The Port
Competitiveness Committee should define common objectives and monitor
implementation. In the case of CI-TELCOM, it is important that government bills be
paid on time. This is an issue that needs to be solved rapidly. It is also important that
the newly-established regulatory authority monitor carefully the performance of the
private operator.
37.   Two institutions established under PSDAC did not start operating, mainly due
to a lack of adequate funding (the arbitration court and the export promotion agency).
The recently approved TA project provides for the funding of their operations on a
declining basis. The objective is to ensure that they are self sufficient over time. No
future operation is being considered for the moment in the private sector, but the
serious problems left unresolved under PSDAC, particularly in the judicial system and
in tax administration, should be addressed in close association with the private sector
as a matter of urgency. The dialogue mechanisms which worked well for the
preparation of the adjustment operation should be re-established.
38.   Private investment has almost doubled from  1994 to 1997, but it still
represents a relatively small share of GDP, at about 11 percent in 1997. To ensure a
steady growth of the Ivorian economy at about 6 to 7 percent p.a., which is the
Government's ambition, it is essential for private investment to increase substantially in
the coming years. In turn, this requires that further efforts be made to improve the
business environment. Over the past several years, the Government has made
considerable progress in liberalizing the economy and privatizing public enterprises. It
15



should now focus on key aspects of governance that are essential for a much needed
diversification of private investment. Justice is one of them. Open dialogue with the
civil society is another. More generally, a sharp and credible focus on eliminating
corrupt practices is essential for improving the business climate,
H. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE
39.   To be successful, private sector adjustment operations require the continued
commitment of all stakeholders concerned.  Private sector representatives felt
energized during program preparation and were expecting a new deal in their relations
with the Government. Their expectations were not met, however, as the Government
failed to involve them in a meaningful way during program implementation. The
commitment of the Government to reform was strong overall, as demonstrated by the
significant changes implemented under the program. Its commitment, however, was
weak in the key areas of judicial and tax administration reform where there was little
or no progress.
40.   Action plans or committees are no substitute for commitment. The action plan
for judicial reform was implemented, but it did not bring about any significant change
in the functioning of the judiciary. The Port Competitiveness Committee, including
representatives of users, was created as a condition of Board presentation. It is not
working, but this did not prevent the port from making steady progress in its
operations.
41.   The so-called "omnibus concept" pioneered by this operation served well its
purpose of providing funding at regular intervals to support the Government's reform
program. The concept took into account the fact that some reforms are more
important than others, but that only the combination of all of them provides the critical
mass for changing the business environment. In retrospect, it would have been useful
to eliminate many secondary conditions and focus on what was absolutely essential.
42.   The private sector felt alienated during program  implementation.  Its
representatives had no say on the way conditions were met. Their advice should have
been solicited.
43.   Clear and measurable indicators of outcomes and impact should have been
defined and agreed upon among all parties concerned for all components of the
program, as was done for the port and customs operations. In areas where clear and
monitorable indicators are difficult to establish, like the functioning of justice, an effort
should have been made to measure the impact, and a monitoring and evaluation
system, including client surveys, should have been put in place at the outset of the
operation, with participation from the private sector and academia.
16



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT - ADJUSTMENT -
(Credit 28430-IVC)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives    Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomnics policies           EE O                          O        
Sector policies                    O              el             O              O
Financial objectives               °                             E °             E3
Institutional development          °              E              O               Cl
Physical objectives                °              D                              E
Poverty reduction                  °              0              °
Gender concerns                    E              0                              E
Other social objectives            a              0              a               E
Environmental objectives           a3             o              E 
Public sector management            o              E              0              O
Private sector development
B. Project Sustainability           Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
el                 0                    El
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactorv          Deficient
Identification                       O                   E                    O
Preparation assistance               0                   El                   °
Appraisal                            El                            0          O
Supervision                          OE                                       O
D. Borrower Performance       Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactorv          Deficient
Preparation                          O                   E                    O
Implementation                       O                   E l
Covenant compliance                  O                                         l O
Operation                            El                                       El 
E. Assessment of Outcome         Hlliy         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Highly
Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
l                             E 3  O 
17



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                      Year of      Status
l                                                     ~~~~~~~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~Approvall
Competitiveness          Enhancing competitiveness. eliminate non-tariff
Adjustment credit        barriers. Liberalize prices. Study reforms in   1992      Completed
(Cr. 2324)               maritime transport regulations. Provide                     1994
l ___________________     budgetary  support.
(i) strengthen central Government finances
Economic Recovery Credit  through elimination of import tax exemptions   1994      Completed
(Cr. 2656)               and improved investment programming, (ii)                   1995
pursue trade liberalization through the                            l
elimination of non-tariff barriers, (iii) further
price liberalization, (iv) liberalize price and
marketing policies for rice, and (v) increase
competitiveness in maritime transport.
To support through studies, training, and
Privatization Support     supporting operating expenses, Govt. objective to
(Cr. 2363)                (I) reduce, through privatization, Got holdings in    1992  Active
productive activities, (II) restructure and reduce
CDI's foreign conunercial debt, and (III)
strengthen Abidjan Stock Exchange
Reinforcement of institutional capacity to
Private Sector            implement the Private Sector Development
development/TA            Adjustment Operation (Port/Customs, Legal      1998        Active
(Cr. 3104)               Framework and Judiciary Arbitration Court) and
support to Private Sector service providers
(Export Promotion)
To improve the efficiency, cost-performance and
Transport sector          service level in the transport sector in the context
Adjustment                of the general structural adjustment policy    1998       Active
(Cr. 3100)               currently agreed upon by funding the
Privatization of parastatals, institutional reforms,
regulation reform, fiscal reforms, and
managerial training for the public and private
sectors.
(i) Targeting of public expenditures to social
Structural Adjustment     development using the indicators agreed under
Grant                    the HIPC framework. The key criteria are the     in
size and targeting of public spending in health,  preparation
education, and rural infrastmcture and services;
(ii) complete liberalization of coffee (October 1,
1998) and cocoa (October 1, 1999) external
marketing and restructuring of the export
marketing agency as a significantly smaller entity
with a greatly reduced role; and (iii) continued
strengthening of the financial sector, including
stronger enforcement of prudential norms.
18



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned             Date actual
Identification                             Jan 95                31-Jan-95
Appraisal                                  Sep 95                23-Sep-95
Negotiations                               Feb 96                26-Feb-96
Letter of Sectoral Development Policy      Mar 96                 Mar-96
Board presentation                         Apr 96                11-Apr-96
Signing                                    Apr 96                12-Apr-96
Effectiveness                              Apr 96                25-Apr-96
Credit closing                           31-Mar-98               31 -Mar-99
Table 4 : Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual *
US$ million                    Credit 28430             Cr. 28431   Cr. 28432
1996        1997        1998        1996        1997
Appraisal estimate            120          60          0          n.a.        n.a.
Actual                        100          60          20         54.4        35.3
Actual as % of estimate       83.3        100                     100          100
Date of final disbursement:          Aug. 21, 1998              06-dec-96   30-Dec-97
* The amounts differ from the original amounts of the Credit in terms of US$ due to changes
in the SDRJUS$ exchange rates.
19



Tables 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
(Not applicable)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
(Not applicable)
Table 8-A: Project Costs
(Not applicable)
Table 8-B: Project Financing
(Not applicable)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not applicable)
20



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit     Covenant   Present
Agreement      Type      Status*            Description of Covenant            Comments
Section
3.01     Monitoring,     C     (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
review and            from time to time, at the request of either party,
reporting             exchange views on the progress achieved inl
carrying out the Program artd the actionsl
specified in Schedule 2 of the credit Agreement;
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably
request;
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall exchange views with the Association on
any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Credit which would have
the effect of materially reversing the objectives
of the Program, or any action taken under the
Program, including any action specified in
Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
3.02     Accounts/      n.a.    Upon the Association's request, the Borrower
Audits                shall:
(a) have the Deposit Account audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) funish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the date of the Association's
request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the Deposit Account
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
have reasonably requested.
*  Present status:    C  =  complied with
CD =   complied with after delay
CP =   complied with partially
NC     not complied with
* The tranche release conditionalities are elaborated in Appendix A.
21



Table 11 Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual                            Actual
Staff Weeks                        US $ (000)
Through appraisal                                       134.60                            453.90
Appraisal 4  Board                                      47.30                             180.50
Supervision through completion                          40.50                             160.20
Total                                                  222.40                             794.60
Table 13 : Bank Resources: Staff Missions
=_________    ________  ________  |____  I  __________________   Perfornance  Rating  I
Stage of    Month /   Number   Days   Specialized Staff Skills                                    Types of
Project Cycle  Year        of       in         Represented       Implementation    Developmnent    Problems
Persons   Field                             Status          Impact
Appraisal      12/96       4        11    -TL
to Board                            1 1    Sr. Counsel
15    Consultant
11    Consultant
Supervision                               TTh
Sr. counsel
I         11/96       5       21    Op. officer                   S                S
Consultant(legal)
Consultant (customs)
if         4/97        1       7    TTL
l  m       11/97       2        5    TTL
Op. officer
Completion     10/98       2              1 Sr. Economist
I Economist
Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from 1 (highest) to 4
(lowest).
22



APPENDIX A
Matrix of tranche release conditionalities
23



Private Sector Development - Adjustment
Project Id: CI-PE-1212
Credit No. 28430 - 28431 - 28432
Implementation Completion Report
CONDITIONNALITEES                              AREAS       TRANCHE                           OBSERVATIONS
L Board presentation
1. Reform of the legal and iudicial system:                     1. reform of       Ist
adoption of a short-term monitorable action plan (annex 1 of the   the legal and
LDP)                                                       regulatory
framework
2. Modernization of the tax code:                                                  1st
adoption of the most urgent changes in the tax procedures in the
1996 budget laws.
3. Labor organization:                                                             1st
publication of 5 of the implementation decrees of the new labor
code, including the decrees on private recruitment and temporary
job agencies, part time job, obligations of employers and
conciliation procedures in labor conflicts
4. Liberalization and tariff reform:                                               1st
1. elimination of the exemptions in favor of assembly industries
(first tariff revision in the 1996 budget law),
2. publication of the texts for the liberalization of the first set of
activities identified (local sale of rice, cement, opening of bakeries
and imports of used vehicles).
5. Streamlining of investment procedures:                                          1st
presentation of an action plan (cf 2nd tranche release memo)
6. Streamlining of Port operations:                             2. Reduction       1st
creation of the Port Competitiveness Committee, including       of specific                 This Committee will be consulted for main decisions regarding
representatives of the Port Authorities, Government departments, port   operating costs     Port management
operators and users
24



CONDITIONNALITIES                             AREAS       TRANCHE                           OBSERVATIONS
7. Liberalization of maritime transports:
(i) full liberalization of bulk and refrigerated traffic as of January        1st     During a transition period extending until the end of December
1997.                                                                                 1996, the newly created national carrier COMARCO and other
Ivorian shipping lines continued to benefit from a reservation of 50
percent of bulk and refrigerated traffic for bananas, pineapples,
palm oil and wine. Freight rates had to be negotiated by both
parties, with arbitration by the chamber of commerce in case of
(ii) Adoption of transparent criteria for chartering vessels.                         disagreement.
(iii) implementation measure of the April 1995 decree eliminating                     Decree requires shipping lines and importers/exporters to supply
the OIC visa.                                                                         statistical information not redundant with existing information
sources.
IL Core conditions
1. Implementation of the action plan for the reform and the legal and    1. reform of  4th  In the process of implementing the action plan the Ministry of
judicial system                                                the overall                Justice has officially consulted all major players (magistrates and
1. reactivation of the General Inspectorate ofjudicial services  legal and            bar associations) and has to a certain extent integrated their written
*  appointment of 4 inspectors general                 regulatory                 comments. This constitutes a significant break with the former
*  distribution of a circular on concept and modalities of    framework           non-transparent tradition where dissenting opinions had no other
inspection                                                                    venue than opposition newspapers.
* two training seminars
2. improvement of settlement of commercial cases through the                          The operating cost of the arbitration court during the first three
creation of an Arbitration Court at CCI                                               years will be co-financed by the Abidjan Chamber of Commerce
*  appointment of a secretary general in September 1996                           and Industry and the Capacity Building/Technical Assistance
*  official opening of the Court in August 1997                                   project.
3. Improvement of the law-making process, including preparation
and implementation of texts
*  creation of a task force to define the methodology of
drafting laws and regulations; and recommendations of
the task force
*  transformation of the OHADA commission into a
permanent institution
4. Reform of judicial procedures to shorten the duration of law
suits
* promulgation of the revised law on civil, conumercial and
administrative procedures
25



CONDITIONNALITIESNN                                                                                         S
* enactment of the law establishing the public prosecutor's
office at the level of the Supreme Court
5. Acceleration of court procedures through opening of "stamp
offices" (centres d'enregistrement) within the courts of appeals
*  opening of a pilot office at Abidjan Court of Appeals
6. Improved access to legal information (laws and regulations and
court decisions) through the establishment of a national legal
information center
*  opening of the information center to the public since
September 1996
*  publication of selected Supreme Court decisions
*  publication of selected Appeals Court decisions
*  publication of complete set of laws in different areas
under preparation
7. Communication campaign on OHADA business laws reforms
*  two-days seminar on OHADA business laws reforms
8. Reform of the office of the clerks of court
*  introduction of computers in courts and training of clerks
is in progress at the Abidjan Court of Appeals and
Abidjan Circuit Court
*  Consultant report on reorganization of the office of the
clerks-of-court submitted
*  Adoption by the Council of Ministers of a series of
actions following the recommendations of the consultant
report
9. Construction of a new court building in a large suburb of
Abidjan (Yopougon) to decongest the only existing court in the
capital city is almost finished
10. Training of magistrates and clerks-of-court
* Adoption of a training plan and several training modules
have been carried out in 1996 and 1997.
26



CONDITIONNALITIES                             AREAS       TRANCHE                           OBSERVATIONS
2. Streamlining of the port/customs chain:                     2. Reduction       6th
a) achievement of specific performance indicators for      of specific                - The availability of cranes had fallen short of the target, due to
streanlining port operations:                              operating costs            major repair problems. Acquisition of two additional ship-to-shore
- overall availability of the two loading/unloading cranes has to  and              gantry cranes under the Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
be brought to 90 percent, by reducing idle and repair time  improvement             Program, is expected to improve performance standards in the
- the number of containers unloaded per hour will be increased   of quality         future.
from 12.4 (in 1994) to 16                                                           - The technical performance of criteria relating to the number of
- average stay of containers in the port of maximum 7 days for                      containers unloaded had been attained.
imports and 3 days for exports for a continuous period of 6                         - Average processing time fell steadily over a two year period, and
months (customs clearance included)                                                 was down to 8.5 days in early 1998, when a plateau was reached.
b) customs: implementation of an action plan (introduction of                         The 3 days target for export containers had already been achieved in
concept of risk management) and compliance with specific                              1997.
performance criteria for port transit (24 hours for green circuit                     - The Customs Authorities met the performance criteria. A
and 48 hours for red circuit) and for custom clearance.                               computerized system to follow up on exemptions has been set up,
but needs further improvements. The requirement to set up a
cumulative customs declaration for large exporters became
redundant through the general acceleration of customs procedures.
3. Privatization of the telecommunications company CI-TELCOM:  2. Reduction       3rd      Authorization of the sale by Decree No. 97-30 of January 22, 1997.
sale of 51% of the equity of the company to a private consortium    of specific       Sale contract awarded after international competitive bidding.
led by France Cable et Radio (sale contract dated February 1,  operating costs
1997)
4. Liquidation of Government export promotion agency (CCIA) and  3.Investment     2nd
creation of a privately run export promotion organization        and export
a) dissolution and liquidation of CCIA by decree No. 96-487 of  promotion
June 25, 1996 published in the Official gazette of June 27, 1997.
Staff on the civil service payroll are returned to the Ministry in
charge of Civil Service and contractual staff are terminated.
b) appointment of a liquidator by decree No. 508 of June 25,1996.
c) creation of an export promotion association (Association pour
la promotion des exportations de CMte d'Ivoire - APEX-Cl -) at                        The LDP stipulated that the Government should have at maximum
the initiative of the private sector on June 14,1996. The                             one third of representatives in the association.
association has 39 founding members and its board of 12
members includes 9 members from the private sector and 3
members from the government (25%)
27



CONDITIONNALITIES                             AREAS       TRANCHE                           OBSERVATIONS
5. Privatization of the Shippers' Council (OIC)                2. Reduction       5th      Issues to be monitored:
The Borrower has sold 35% of its shareholding in OIC to a small  of specific          1. "Commission de rationalization", which in the past financed the
group of shippers (Groupement des Chargeurs de C6te d'Ivoire)    operating costs      major part of OIC's budget will be put in an escrow account until a
under the contractual obligation for them to retrocede the shares   and               decision about its continuation and level is taken
to all Ivorian shippers. The Government retains 15% and the Port  improvement         2. the Government has to determine the rent for the storage areas,
of Abidjan 5% of shares. Another 5% of shares are held by the  of quality             which in the past, had been put at the disposition of OIC free of
parastatal cotton company (CIDT) which is in the process of  services                 charge.
privatization. After the sale, the aggregate shareholding of the                      3.determination of the final value of shares by independent
borrower and public sector entities amounts to 25% which is                           evaluation, after an audit of the company.
below the threshold maximum of 35% set out in the Credit                              4. retrocession by the GCCI of shares to all Ivorian shippers on the
Agreement.                                                                            following process (specified in the annex of the sales contract):
- on the basis of their imports and exports shares as evidenced by
customs statistics
- within a period of 6 months
- the cost of the retrocession will be financed out of the escrow
account
- any share not sold by the GCCI will revert to the Government
which will organize their sale to the highest bidder within a 3
months period, in compliance with the privatization law of 1994.
Im. Non core conditions
1. Reform of tax administration procedures and penalties:      1. reform of       3rd     The draft proposal had been discussed extensively with the private
adoption of a separate comprehensive section of the tax law by the  the overall       sector and constitutes an acceptable compromise between the
national Assembly (law No. 97-244 of April 25, 1997, published   legal and            requirements for efficiency of the tax administration and the rights
in the Official Gazette of may 15, 1997) dealing with the  regulatory                 of the taxpayers.
procedures for tax inspection, collection, penalties and litigation,   framework
with the aim of guaranteeing the rights and obligations of the tax
administration and taxpayers.
The law contains provisions requiring e.g., that the tax
administration inform taxpayers in advance of an impending
audit and gives them the right to retain a counsel. Proof of
charges lies with the tax administration (a significant departure
from the previous procedures where taxpayers had to prove their
innocence). Penalties are set at different rates for fraudulent
intention or for simple negligence or delay in filing of payment. A
conciliation Committee composed of Administration and private
sector members has been created.
28



CONDITIONNALITES                              AREAS       TRANCHE                           OBSERVATIONS
2. Reform of the customs administration regulations and penalties and             4th
phasing out of special tariff provisions for assembly industries
1. introduction of a schedule to the custom law, to categorize  2. Reduction          This condition was introduced with a view to eliminate the scope
offenses and to set the corresponding "transaction fines". About    of specific       for non-transparent and rent-seeking behavior by customs officials
25 different categories of offenses were defined. The schedule was  operating costs
distributed to customs officials and users by circular letter No. 851  and
of may 30, 1997, in which the Director General of customs  improvement
indicates that its intent is to ensure that, all over the customs  of quality
territory, the same definition of offense is used and identical  services
offenses receive identical fines.
2. publication of a User's Guide on customs procedures in March
1997, within a general user's guide for the tax, customs and
treasury departments.
3. Presentation of a draft section of the 1998 budget law to  1. reform of            A first tariff revision was included in the 1996 budget law as a
eliminate the remaining tariff exemptions for assembly industries.  the overall       condition of Board presentation.
legal and                  At the time of the tranche release, the condition was considered as
regulatory                 substantially fulfilled on the basis of the draft section and of the
framework                  overall progress with tariff code revision since 1996.
3. Further liberalization of domestic markets and effective functioning   1. reform of  6th  - 12 activities had been liberalized since the beginning of the
of the institutions overseeing competition:                    the overall                 program (including private schools, travel agencies, consulting
1. liberalization of a second set of a least 3 more activities  legal and          firms, car repair shop, restaurants, ...). The conditions for
2. reform of the Competition Comnmittee:                regulatory                 liberalizing 67 other activities are under review. Access to 38
- increase of the number of members from 7 to 9, of which  framework           activities continue to be restricted for the time being, mainly for
at least 5 from the private sector                                             health and safety reasons.
- adequate compensation for members' services                                  - Decree No. 96-288 of April 3, 1996, modified the composition of
- possibility for individual firms to submit any                               the Competition Commnittee, increasing its membership from 7 to 9
competition matter directly to the Committee, without                          members of whom 5 represent the private sector. Members are
going through trade associations.                                              chosen on personal merit, not in their official capacity, and receive
- strengthen the Committee's cooperation with the                              an adequate compensation for Comnuittee sessions.
relevant Govermment department (Direction de la                                - Law No. 97-10 of January 6, 1997 extends to individual firms and
Concurrence)                                                                   consumer associations the possibility of filing complaints regarding
3. access to accountant services of international quality:                         competition matters, and gives the Commission the right to take up
definition of the conditions for equivalency of the CPA                            cases itself, thus increasing the effectiveness of the Institution.
diploma.                                                                           - Access to the accounting profession had been opened up by official
recognition of the equivalency of the CPA diploma with the French
expert-comptable diploma (decision No.13 of January 120, 1998).
29



CONDITIONNALITIES                            AREAS       TRANCHE                         OBSERVATIONS
4. Publication of the decrees implementing the labor code:    1. reform of     2nd      After mandatory tripartite consultation process between
a. publication of the complete set of 21 implementation decrees in  the legal and   Government, employers unions and trade unions.
the Official Gazette of May 9, 1996.                     regulatory
framework
5. Removal of obligation for importers to underwrite maritime  2. Reduction     5th     The former requirement of local insurance for importer created a
insurance with local companies.                              of specific                rent situation for Ivorian insurance companies without any risk or
By ordinance No 97-444 of August 8, 1997, published in the  operating costs         service.
Official Gazette of September 18, 1997, the Government has  and
maintained a general insurance requirement for import sea  improvement
freight, with repealing the law No 86-485 which required local    of quality
insurance. Implementation decree No 97487 of August 8, 1997    services
published in the same Official Gazette, contains further details on
the insurance requirement.
IV. General condition
1. Entire clearance of domestic debt by the end of 1996 and no  4. Increased   each
accumulation of new arrears.                                 Private sector    tranche
arrears due to the private sector at the end of          confidence in
December 1995:  CFAF 174 billion                      the
June 1996:      CFAF 107 billion                      Govermuent
December 1996:  CFAF 30 million
Thus the Government has met the target of elimination for end of
1996, except for a small amount of claims which need additional
supporting documents, and no news arrears has been accumulated
as of end of November 1997.
30



APPENDIX B
ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
DU SECTEUR PRIVE (PAS priv6)
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de MM. Jer6me Chevallier,
responsable de l'unite de soutien operationnel, et Jacky Amprou, consultant, s'est rendue
a Abidjan du 12 au 23 Octobre 1998, afin de preparer le rapport d'achevement du
programme d'ajustement pour le developpement du secteur prive, connu sous le nom de
PAS prive. M. Gaston Gohou du bureau d'Abidjan, a participe activement a la mission, a
qui Mine. Christiane Tenda-Lasme a apporte son soutien logistique. La mission a eu une
seance de travail avec le comite de suivi du PAS prive sous la presidence de M. Feh
K6ss6, directeur adjoint de cabinet a la Primature. Elle a aussi rencontre les responsables
des differents volets du programme et les representants des organisations professionnelles.
Elle remercie tous ses interlocuteurs pour leur attention et cooperation.
2.    Le PAS prive avait pour objectif d'accroltre la competitivite externe et inteme et
de promouvoir activement les investissements et les exportations, en mettant en oeuvre une
serie de reformes visant a ameliorer l'environnement des affaires.  Ces reformes
comprenaient: (i) une refonte du cadre juridique et reglementaire pour diminuer les couts
de transaction et les risques, (ii) une reduction des cofits et des delais de passage portuaire
(proc6dures douanieres et de transit) et une amelioration de la gestion des infrastructures,
notamment dans le domaine des transports et des telecommunications, (iii) une
amelioration de la promotion des exportations et des investissements et (iv) la reduction
des arrieres interieurs de l'Etat pour accroiitre la confiance du secteur prive.
3.    Des reformes avaient deja ete engag6es avant la presentation du credit au conseil
d'administration de la Banque. Les principales mesures ont consiste en: (i) l'elimination
des exemptions en faveur des industries d'assemblage (budget de 1996), (ii) la
lib6ralisation de certaines activites (dont les ventes locales de riz, l'industrie du ciment,
l'importation des vehicules d'occasion et l'ouverture des boulangeries), (iii) la publication
de decrets d'application du nouveau code du travail, dont ceux sur les agences de travail
interimaire, le travail a temps partiel et les procedures de conciliation concernant les
differends collectifs du travail, (iv) la reforme du code des investissements, (v) la creation
du comite de competitivite du port et (vi) la liberalisation des transports maritimes.
4.    Le credit d'un montant de 180 millions de dollars a ete approuve en avril 1996.
Deux credits supplementaires pour un montant total de 91,2 millions de dollars ont ete
approuves en novembre 1996 et en decembre 1997 au titre de la cinquieme dimension. Le
31



credit initial etait con,u selon le principe de l'omnibus, une premiere tranche de 80
millions de dollars a ete decaissee lors de la mise en vigueur du credit en 1996 et 5
tranches de 20 millions de dollars chacune ont 6te decaissees entre 1996 et 1998, chaque
fois qu'au moins deux conditions etaient remplies, une principale et une secondaire. La
derniere tranche a ete deboursee le 21 aout 1998, pres de cinq mois apres la date initiale
de cl6ture du credit (31 mars 1998).
5.    Au cours de la seance de travail que la mission a eue avec le comite de suivi du
PAS prive le 19 octobre 1998, il a ete convenu que chacun des responsables des
differentes composantes du programme ferait un bilan critique de sa composante en
mettant l'accent sur les resultats et insuffisances, et en analysant les impacts par rapport
aux objectifs initiaux du programme. Ces bilans seraient remis au plus tard le 28 octobre
1998 au Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de Developpement (BNETD), qui
effectuerait une synthese des travaux. Le bilan d'ensemble, une fois valide par le
gouvernement serait envoye a la Banque mondiale et servira de base a la preparation du
rapport d'achevement par la mission.   Le projet de rapport sera envoye pour
commentaires aux autorites ivoiriennes, avant finalisation et soumission au conseil
d'administration de la Banque vers la fin de decembre 1998.
6.    Au cours de la mission, la Federation Nationale des Industries de CMte d'Ivoire
(FNICI) a bien voulu organiser a son intention des reunions de travail sur les themes de la
legislation du travail, des procedures et penalites fiscales et enfin du port et de la douane.
Le compte rendu de ces reunions figure en annexe a cet aide-memoire.
7.    Sous reserve des analyses en cours de preparation par les responsables des
differentes composantes, la mission estime que des progres importants ont ete effectues
dans les domaines du port et de la douane, de la l6gislation du travail, du code des
investissements et des services de telecommunications. Par contre, des progres importants
restent encore a faire dans les domaines de la justice, de la fiscalite, de la concurrence et
de la concertation entre les pouvoirs publics et le secteur prive. Peut-on considerer le
PAS prive comme un succes? Oui et non. II est difficile de porter un jugement sans
equivoque sur cette operation. II est clair cependant que des actions energiques sont
necessaires pour renforcer les acquis du programme.
8.    L'environnement des affaires s'est sensiblement ameliore depuis la devaluation du
franc CFA en janvier 1994. Les investissements ont presque double et les emplois se sont
accrus a un rythme soutenu dans le secteur formel. Le taux d'investissement prive est
cependant encore trop faible pour generer une croissance durable de l'economie a un
rythme de 6 a 7% par an, ce qui est un minimum pour ameliorer de fa9on significative le
niveau de vie de la population dans les annees a venir. Des efforts importants doivent 8tre
engages pour reduire les obstacles a l'investissement prive. Ces obstacles sont bien
connus. Il s'agit de l'ampleur de la fraude et de la corruption, des lenteurs de la justice, du
couit eleve de l'intermediation financiere et des contraintes specifiques au developpement
des petites et moyennes entreprises.
32



9.    La mission recommande que les autorites ivoiriennes formulent, en etroite
concertation avec les representants du secteur prive, un programme ambitieux de reformes
qui aurait pour objet de lever les obstacles mentionnes au paragraphe precedent. II
conviendrait que des indicateurs de performance soient etablis dans chacun des domaines
mentionnes et que toutes les parties en cause s'engagent a les atteindre. Ce programme
mis au point par les ivoiriens eux-m8mes pourrait faire l'objet du soutien des bailleurs de
fonds si necessaire.
ANNEXE
PROJET D'AJUSTEMENT POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR PRIVE
PANEL SECTEUR PRIVE
Livre des procedures fiscales. procedures douanieres et penalit6s.
1. Une quinzaine de representants du secteur priv6 ont participe a une rencontre avec la
mission de la Banque Mondiale, chargee de preparer le rapport d'achevement du PAS
prive, a la mission residente le mardi 20 octobre. Le theme de cette rencontre etait
l'impact du livre des procedures fiscales et de la reforme douaniere.
2. L'adoption du livre des procedures fiscales a ameliore les verifications de comptabilite,
mais il y a encore trop de controles sur pieces, dont letendue depasse le cadre prevu par la
loi.  De I'avis g6ndral, le comportement de I'administration fiscale vis a vis des
contribuables n'a pas connu de profondes modifications. Cette situation est due aux
facteurs suivants:
- le manque de formation des agents, qui ne sont pas toujours au courant des
textes;
- le comportement des agents qui ne va pas souvent dans le sens du dialogue;
- le livre fiscal donne lieu a des interpretations, souvent sous forme de notes de
services. Ces interpretations finissent par constituer un corps de doctrine qui n'est
pas necessairement en conformite avec la loi;
- le r6le et les fonctions des differentes unites de I'administration fiscale sont mal
definis; et
- la commission paritaire n'existe que sur le papier et de faqon generale le
contribuable est sans recours.
3. Les participants ont reconnu que l'administration doit pouvoir disposer de moyens
pour controler et lutter contre la fraude et ont propose un certain nombre d'ameliorations
pour etablir un veritable partenariat:
33



- la definition precise de 1'etendue des differents types de controles et des delais a
observer;
- l'institution de possibilites de recours aupres d'une instance independante et
objective;
- un programme de formation continue des agents de l'administration fiscale; et
- la publication d'un guide pratique permettant de vulgariser les droits et
obligations du contribuable.
4. En ce qui concerne le bareme des penalites douanieres, il est inconnu des operateurs et
semble rarement appliqu& La regle reste la procedure de transaction.
Liberalisation des transports maritimes et facilitation du vassa2e vortuaire
1. Une quinzaine de representants du secteur prive ont participe a une rencontre avec la
mission de la Banque Mondiale, chargee de preparer le rapport d'achevement du PAS
prive, a la mission residente le mardi 20 octobre. Le theme de cette rencontre etait
l'impact de la liberalisation des transports maritimes et la facilitation du passage portuaire.
2. La lib6ralisation des transports maritimes a permis une diminution significative des
taux de fret, de l'ordre de 30 a 50% selon certains intervenants et une amelioration de la
qualite moyenne des services. L'elimination du visa de l'OIC a permis d'accroTitre la
rapidite des operations a l'exportation. En ce qui concerne les temps de passage portuaire
a l'importation, la mise en place des Bons a Enlever Automatique (BAE) et du circuit vert
(controle sur documents uniquement) a reduit considerablement les durees de
dedouanement. Cependant, le temps necessaire pour la saisie des manifestes reste
important et constitue la cause principale des retards. Tant que la duree de cette etape
n'est pas reduite, il semble difficile de raccourcir d'avantage le temps necessaire pour le
d6douanement.
3. Quelques ameliorations restent a apporter en ce qui concerne:
- le deroulement du circuit rouge (difficultes pour reunir les trois douaniers
necessaires, contr6le de la cargaison au port et a destination);
- la diffusion de l'information aux douaniers a propos de l'6volution de la
reglementation (elimination de l'obligation d'assurance maritime locale, par
exemple);
- l'utilisation syst6matique de la proc6dure dite du "travail suppl6mentaire" qui
revient a demander des frais supplementaires aux operateurs pour permettre un
dedouanement plus rapide; et
- campagne d'information sur la composition et les attributions du Comite de
Competitivite du Port qui vient d'etre mis en place et dont beaucoup ignorent
1' existence.
34



Marche du travail
1. Une quinzaine de representants du secteur prive ont participe A une rencontre avec la
mission de la Banque Mondiale, chargee de pr6parer le rapport d'achevement du PAS
prive, a la mission residente le lundi 19 octobre. Le theme de cette rencontre etait
l'impact de la reforme du code de travail sur le fonctionnement des entreprises.
2. De I'avis general des participants, le nouveau code du travail a constitue un progres
important dans le sens d'une plus grande flexibilite du marche du travail. Les principales
avancees de la reforme incluent:
- la disparition du monopole de l'OMOCI;
- la reduction des possibilites de deisions arbitraires A 1'encontre des entreprises;
- la definition d'un cadre juridique pour les agences temporaires de travail.
3. Dans l'ensemble, les firmes representees font appel A des bureaux de placement. Le
travail A temps partiel n'existe pratiquement pas. Le recours au travail temporaire est
general, mais les travailleurs temporaires representent une faible proportion des effectifs
totaux.  Les relations de travail sont dans l'ensemble bonnes et les relations avec
l'inspection du travail plut6t cordiales.
4. Les am6liorations souhaitees portent sur les domaines suivants:
- le remplacement des registres manuels par un syst6me electronique;
- la levee des contradictions entre le nouveau code du travail et les conventions
collectives qui datent d'avant le code;
- une solution au probleme des travailleurs non ivoiriens: cofit excessif des
formulaires, duree de deux mois, contradictions entre la duree specifiee dans le
contrat de travail (duree indetermin6e) et la duree inscrite dans les formulaires de
l'AGEPE (2 ans maximum);
- la diffusion des rapports d'activites de I'AGEFOP et du FDFP faisant 6tat de
l'utilisation des fonds generes par la taxe d'apprentissage (0.4% des salaires) et de
la taxe de formation professionnelle (1.2% des salaires); et
- une campagne d'information et de diffusion des nouvelles dispositions du code
aupres de la population.
35



APPENDLx C
Borrower contribution to the ICR
(with Summary in English)
36



COTE D'IVOIRE
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT
Credit 28430-IVC
Summary of Borrower's Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report
1.    The report prepared by the Government provides a detailed description of the
actions taken under the reform program.
2.    Justice. The Government has implemented the action plan including (i) the
reinforcement of the General Inspectorate; (ii) the establishment of an Arbitration Court at
the Abidjan Chamber of Commerce; (iii) the reform of judicial procedures to shorten the
duration of law suits; (iv) the opening of a pilot "stamp office" within the court of appeals
of Abidjan with positive results; (v) the establishment of a legal information center to
improve access to legislation and legal decisions with the help of France; (vi) public
information on OHADA reforms through seminars; (vii) the reform of the office of the
clerks of court; (viii) the construction of a court building in Yopougon; and (ix) the
training of magistrates with the help of France. The Government contribution mentions
the lack of operating funds as a serious constraint to the proper functioning of the
Inspectorate and the legal information center.
3.    Port. The objective of this component was to improve the performance of the
port of Abidjan. A set of performance indicators were agreed upon. The difficulties
encountered during program implementation included the insufficient knowledge of the
sector, the lack of funding to cover additional costs of the program, the change in
conditionalities during implementation, and the tension created by the tendency of the
Bank to seek information directly from private operators. These difficulties are developed
in great detail in the report.
4.    Implementation of the port component has improved the cohesion among actors in
the port sector, facilitated the work of the customs office, enabled each participant to
make an assessment of its own shortcomings, made the use of gantry cranes much more
efficient, and contributed to the development of common performance indicators.
5.    Customs. This component of the program included the introduction of the
automatic clearance system, the computerization in the management of customs
exemptions, the elimination of manual procedures, the revision of the Customs Code, and
the preparation of a manual for private operators. The program has enabled the Customs
Office to improve its procedures and its relations with the private sector.
6.    Export Promotion. CCIA, the export promotion agency, was liquidated and a
new Agency has been established with support from the TA project.
37



7.    Tax Procedures and Penalties. This component allowed for the consolidation of
a number of texts. An ordinance was adopted in March 1996 to address urgent issues and
give comfort to tax payers. A Manual on Tax Procedures was issued as part of a law
enacted in April 1997. This manual provides guidelines for inspections (need to inform
the tax payer in advance, inspection not to exceed 12 months, taxpayer's response within
30 days, and burden of the proof on Government), for the creation of a conciliation
committee (not yet operational because some ministries concerned have not yet appointed
their representatives), for tax collection, and penalties (reduction of the rates from 200
percent to 50 percent).
8.    The Government contribution indicates that it is too early to evaluate the results of
the changes made, and that a seminar will be organized soon for the benefit of government
agents and taxpayers.
9.    Labor legislation. A new Labor Code was adopted in 1995 and 25 decrees were
approved. Three decrees concerning the quality of the work environment, the operating
conditions for social services, and wages have not yet been approved. All decrees have
been discussed extensively with private sector representatives.
10.   Maritime Transport. The liberalization of maritime transport has resulted in the
liquidation of SITRAM, the national shipping company. A private monopoly has replaced
the national company for the transport of fruits. OIC, the shippers' council, was
privatized. The impact of these reforms needs to be carefully evaluated.
11.   Deregulation. The Government contribution gives a detailed description of the
decrees which liberalized a series of economic activities in two phases. The liberalization
of the import of second hand vehicles has resulted in a considerable increase of such
imports, with a negative impact in terms of pollution and accidents. Accordingly, the
Government has decided to ban the import of vehicles more than 7 years old. The
liberalization of bakeries and rice trade has resulted in an increase of private operators.
This has not been the case in the cement sector, in which three companies are active. The
Government contribution indicates that it is too early to evaluate the impact of the second
phase.
12.   Maritime Insurance. It is too early to assess the impact of the liberalization of
maritime insurance, which took place in August 1997.
13.   Recommendation. An independent evaluation should be carried out by a private
consultant.
38



CONTRIBUTION DE L'ADMINISTRATION A L'ELABORATION DU RAPPORT
D'ACHEVEMENT DU CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DU SECTEUR PRIVE
(CAS-DSP)
INTRODUCTION GENERALE
Le present rapport se propose de faire le bilan de toutes les reformes mises en
ceuvre pour ameliorer l'environnement des affaires en Cote d'lvoire dans le cadre du
Programme d'Ajustement pour le D6veloppement du Secteur Prive.
11 apparait de fa9on generale que des efforts importants ont 6te accomplis par
)es differentes composantes malgre certaines contraintes favorisees par la procedure des
tranches flottantes.
I / LA JUSTICE
Dans le cadre de l'amelioration du fonctionnement de l'appareil judiciaire, les
mesures et les actions suivantes ont et6 prises et executees.
1. Renforcement et valorisation de la fonction de contr6le de la Justice
par la r6activation de l'lnspection Generale des Services Judiciaires
11 a ete etabli :
- des canevas-types d'inspection pour chaque cat6gorie de juridiction: Cour
d'appel, Tribunal de Premiere Instance, Section de Tribunal et pour chacune des
professions judiciaires dont la discipline et le controle relevent du Ministere de la
Justice: notaires, huissiers et commissaires priseurs;
- une circulaire rappelant les attributions de l'Inspection G6n6rale, determinant une
inspection du tiers des juridictions chaque annee et fixant une methodologie
nouvelle de ces inspections;
- une fiche individuelle de fonctions pour permettre de definir, dans chaque service,
les fonctions, les taches ex6cutees par chaque agent et leurs liaisons avec
d'autres postes ou fonctions;
Ces mesures sont appliqu6es depuis la rentree judiciaire 1997-1998 et les
inspecteurs sont satisfaits des resultats obtenus. II reste cependant a mettre a la
39



disposition de l'Inspection Generale les moyens adequats lui permettant d'effectuer ses
missions aupres des juridictions de l'interieur du pays.
Par ailleurs, de nouveaux magistrats-inspecteurs ont ete nommes et deux (2)
greffiers-inspecteurs sont en voie de nomination pour completer l'equipe actuelle.
2. Amelioration des realements des conflits Aconomipues Par la mise en
place de la Cour d'Arbitraae au sein de la Chambre de Commerce et
d'lndustrie
Les mesures contenues dans ce volet ont toutes ete realisees. Le Secretaire
General et le President de la Cour ont ete nommes, la Cour est dejA ouverte au public;
une assistance technique pour son dAmarrage a ete mise en place depuis juillet 1997.
Cependant les efforts de promotion de la Cour doivent etre poursuivis et renforces.
3. Amelioration du Drocessus d'elaboration et de mise en couvre des
textes I6aislatifs et r6elementaires
Deux mesures ont ete prises: la creation d'un groupe de travail destine a
Alaborer un manuel de methodologie et la transformation de la Commission Nationale
OHADA en une Commission Permanente.
La Commission OHADA a ete transformee en une Commission Permanente
chargee d'apprecier les textes A caractere economique. Cependant, elle ne dispose, a ce
jour, d'aucun financement pour son fonctionnement.
Un manuel de methodologie a ete confectionne qui, faute de financement, n'est
pas encore publie et diffuse.
4. Reformes l6aislatives et reallementaires en vue d'acc6l6rer le
realement des litices devant les iuridictions
Les deux textes retenus comme conditionnalites de cette action ont ete votes le
4 septembre 1997 et publies au Journal Officiel de la Republique de Cote d'lvoire du 18
septembre 1997.
11 s'agit d'abord des modifications de la loi no 72-883 du 21 decembre 1972
portant code de procedure civile, commerciale et administrative dont les plus
importantes qui datent du 4 septembre 1997 comportent les dispositions nouvelles
suivantes:
40



- possibilite pour la Cour Supreme d'evoquer apres cassation: cette possibilite
permet a la Cour Supreme de se prononcer sur le fond et d'eviter la navette entre
elle et les Cours d'Appel qui conduisait a allonger les proc6dures;
- instauration du principe de la collegialite au niveau des juridictions de premier
degre: les audiences sont tenues par trois magistrats au lieu d'un seul auparavant
et cette coll6gialite fonctionne effectivement depuis la rentree judiciaire 1997-
1998;
- obligation pour les chefs de juridictions de presider en personne les audiences au
cours desquelles sont evoqu6es des affaires dont l'int6ret du litige excede 100
millions de francs;
- reduction du nombre des renvois a un seul devant les Cours d'Appel et la Cour
Supreme;
- institution d'un juge des ref6res au niveau des Cours d'appel et de la Cour
Supreme en vue d'instaurer la c6lerite au niveau de 1'ex6cution des decisions, le
juge des r6fer6s etant le juge de l'urgence et de I'evidence;
- allegement de la proc6dure de defense a execution provisoire: cette procedure
permet aux premiers presidents et au pr6sident de la Cour Supreme de se
prononcer en urgence sur les difficultes d'execution des d6cisions rendues, et
d'6viter de mettre en place une formation de jugement.
11 s'agit ensuite de la loi instituant un parquet gen6ral pres la Cour Supreme
dont l'objectif est de renforcer I'Etat de droit, ameliorer la celerite des proc6dures et lutter
contre les mesures dilatoires.
11 convient de noter que les procureurs g6neraux pres la Cour Supreme ne sont
pas encore nommes.
5. Acc6leration des procedures iudiciaires par l'ouverture de centres
d'enreaistrement aupres des Cours d'Appel
En vue d'accelrer les formalites de 1'enregistrement des decisions judiciaires,
un centre d'enregistrement pilote a 6te construit au sein du palais de justice d'Abidjan. II
est ouvert au public depuis mai 1997 et permet un gain de temps aux justiciables.
L'ouverture de centres aupres des autres formations de l'interieur n'est pas
encore faite.
41



6. Assurer un meilleur acc6s aux textes 16cislatifs et r6glementaires et la
Publication svst6maticue des arr6ts
L'execution de la Convention FAC n° 92014300 s'est concretis6e a travers trois
grandes composantes parmi lesquelles figure le Centre National de la Documentation
juridique (CNDJ) dont l'objet est de rassembler et de mettre sous forme de base de
donn6es informatis6e, en vue de leur consultation et de leur diffusion sur tout support,
tous les textes juridiques. Inaugur6 le 29 mai 1996, ce centre est ouvert au public et
connait un certain succes. II ambitionne de devenir la premiere banque de donnees en
matiere de collecte et de traitement de textes juridiques dans la sous-r6gion. Le principal
handicap du centre reside dans l'insuffisance des fonds alloues pour son fonctionnement
et son 6quipement.
7. Promotion de la communication
Cette action qui vise a faire mieux connaltre la justice aux justiciables est a
l'origine des seminaires et tables rondes sur les actes uniformes OHADA. Elle se trouve
6galement a l'origine des journees a portes ouvertes sur la justice )) qui sont l'occasion de
pr6senter aux op6rateurs 6conomiques cette institution.
8. Reformes des areffes
Le premier aspect de ce volet est constitue par l'informatisation des greffes,
financ6e par la Cooperation Francaise. Les applications developpees n'ont pas connu
un grand succes et des corrections sont a faire dans le cadre de la nouvelle convention
FAC signee le 23 mai 1998 entre le Gouvernement fran9ais et le Gouvernement de Cote
d'lvoire.
Outre l'informatisation, la r6forme des greffes a fait l'objet d'une communication
en Conseil des Ministres en date du 12 juin 1997 adoptant les diff6rentes mesures
suivantes:
- l'institutionnalisation des greffes en tant qu'organes de juridictions et leur
r6organisation: la Loi no 61-155 du 18 mai 1961 ne reconnait pas le greffe en tant
qu'organe de juridiction. Elle ne reconnalt que l'autorite du greffier en chef. La
r6forme institue donc au niveau des juridictions trois (3) organes: le siege, le
parquet et le greffe, ce qui est conforme au fonctionnement actuel des juridictions;
-  la redefinition du statut du greffier;
- l'institution de la procedure de transaction et d'acquiescement en mati&re penale
afin de parvenir au reglement rapide des a petits litiges >> dans le but de
desencombrer les tribunaux;
42



- la prise d'un arrete relatif a la conservation des archives judiciaires;
- I'adoption de nouvelles modalit6s de recouvrement des frais de justice criminelle
et des amendes.
Le retard accuse dans la r6alisation de la plupart de ces mesures est do au fait
que l'Assemblee Nationale tarde a voter les lois qui les sQus-tendent et que, le
Gouvemement ne s'est pas encore prononce en faveur de la suppression du droit
proportionnel d'enregistrement.
9. Demarraae de la construction du tribunal de Yooounon
Le programme de la decentralisation des juridictions a d6marr6 avec la
construction du tribunal de Yopougon qui est achevee et qui ouvre ses portes a cette
rentree judiciaire 1998-1999.
Les autres composantes de ce programme (les tribunaux d'Abobo, de Port-
Bouet et de certaines ville de l'interieur) n'ont pas encore connu un debut d'ex6cution.
10. Formation continue des maQistrats
Une formation continue permanente des magistrats est envisagee. L'apport de
la Cooperation Fran,aise sur la nouvelle convention signee le 23 mars 1998 devra etre
complete par d'autres financements a trouver.
L'ensemble de ces mesures constituent des avancees certaines en vue
d'ameliorer le fonctionnement de la justice. Cependant les mesures et actions
necessaires a la moralisation de la justice restent timides et des efforts doivent etre
poursuivis afin de rendre aux justiciables les decisions acceptables et au dessus de tout
soup,on.
II/ L'AMELIORATION DES PROCEDURES PORTUAIRES
1. Obiectifs
Le volet portuaire du Programme avait pour objectif principal I'amelioration de
la competitivite du Port Autonome d'Abidjan. Cette am6lioration a 6te recherch6e a
travers certains indicateurs de performance portant notamment sur:
* Le temps de passage des conteneurs au Terminal de Vridi;
* L'activit6 des portiques.
43



Au niveau du temps de passage des conteneurs au Terminal de Vridi, il--etait
demande d'observer un sejour moyen de trois (03) jours a l'exportation et sept (07) joars
a l'importation.
Concernant les portiques, les performances exigees portaient sur la cadence
commerciale (16 TEU / heure) et le taux de disponibilite (90 %).
Ces performances ont 6te realisees mais quelques difficultes ont 6t6 mises en
6vidence au cours de 1'execution du Programme.
Difficult6s et contraintes de mise en application
Elles s'articulent autour des points suivants:
* prise en compte insuffisante des realit6s du secteur;
* d6faut de prise en compte des coOt generes par la mise en aeuvre du
Programme;
les modifications de conditionnalit6s pendant l'ex6cution du Programme;
. les difficult6s engendrees par les informations collectees par la Banque
Mondiale aupres de certains operateurs prives.
a) La prise en compte insuffisante des r6alites du secteur
Les obstacles a la bonne ex6cution du Programme sont Mies a certaines r6alites
du secteur portuaire.
Les principales sources de difficultes ont port6 sur:
- la meconnaissance des procedures d'importation par les chargeurs;
- le manque de professionnalisme de certains transitaires et consignataires dans la
conduite des op6rations relatives aux conteneurs;
- I'utilisation abusive de 1'espace portuaire par les receptionnaires de la
marchandise comme une aire d'entreposage bon marche;
- le manque de moyens financiers pour couvrir les couts de passage portuaire,
notamment les droits de douane
- la reticence des chargeurs a payer les p6nalit6s pour retard d'enlevement des
marchandises.
44



b) Le d6faut de prise en compte des couts a6n6r6s par la mise en muvre
du Proaramme
Dans la recherche de solutions pour satisfaire les criteres dans les delais fixes
par le Gouvernement, le Port Autonome d'Abidjan a ete amene A realiser d'importants
investissements non prevus a son budget, notamment l'amenagement de deux (2) parcs
ext6rieurs a la zone sous douane:
- Le parc MOBIL de 2,2 ha pour accueillir les conteneurs vides qui stationnaient au
Terminal de Vridi : 218 millions de francs;
- Le grand parc de 6 ha sis en zone industrielle de Vridi pour accueillir une partie du
trafic des conteneurs: 1,7 milliards de francs;
- Accroissement du coCit de passage portuaire des conteneurs, do aux frais
suppl6mentaires de leur transfert sur les parcs exterieurs (Terre-plein 15 et parc
MOBIL). Ce supplement de cout s'eleve a 88.440 F CFA pour un conteneur de 20'
et a 166.730 F CFA pour un conteneur de 40'.
c) Les modifications de conditionnalit6s pendant I'ex6cution du
Proaramme
Les criteres de performance, tels que specifies dans l'accord de credit, ont
connu des modifications au cours du Programme.
Ainsi, I'Accord de credit sp6cifiait que les criteres de performances devaient
etre << satisfaits au cours des six (6) demiers mois en moyenne )). Dans I'aide
memoire de la mission d'evaluation du 28 avril au 20 mars 1997, cette donnee avait
evolue comme suit:  les criteres de performance portuaire devraient etre satisfaits
sur six (6) mois cons6cutifs >>
Concernant le s6jour des conteneurs A l'importation, il est a noter que l'idee de
creation du 1 er parc exterieur, bien que suggeree par la partie ivoirienne, a ete
recommandee par la Banque Mondiale qui a d'ailleurs fait remarquer que ceUte pratique a
cours a l'iIe Maurice. Mais la Banque Mondiale, lors de sa mission de supervision du
Programme du CAS-DSP, n'a pas pris en compte cette solution et a decide de calculer le
sejour moyen en additionnant les delais calcules au Terminal de Vridi et au TP15 (parc
exterieur sous douane).
Dans l'accord de credit, ce critere portait uniquement sur le sejour moyen des
conteneurs au Terminal de Vridi.
45



d) Les difficult6s enaendr6es Par les informations collect6es Par la
Banque Mondiale auprbs de certains op6rateurs pnv6s
Tout au long de l'ex6cution du Programme, bien que le Port Autonome
d'Abidjan soit son interlocuteur privil6gi6, la Banque Mondiale avait tendance a donner
plus d'importance aux informations communiquees par les operateurs prives. De ce fait,
les pr6occupations de la partie ivoirienne ne paraissaient pas avoir toujours et6
suffisamment prises en compte.
2. R6sultats obtenus
D'une maniere g6n6rale, 1'ex6cution du Programme du CAS-DSP a permis:
* de renforcer la cohesion des principaux acteurs portuaires dans leurs efforts communs
d'am6lioration des performances portuaires. En effet, ia quasi totalite des membres de
la communaut6 portuaire a d6sormais bien integr6 l'id6e que la recherche de la
competitivite ne saurait se faire sans I'apport de chacun d'eux;
* aux administrations impliquees dans les prestations portuaires relatives aux
conteneurs, notamment I'administration des douanes, d'accomplir des efforts notables
de simplification et de facilitation des proc6dures;
* a chaque intervenant dans la chaitne de passage portuaire de deceler les faiblesses
inherentes A son propre systeme et d'engager en harmonie avec les autres
intervenants les actions correctives n6cessaires;
 d'utiliser desormais les portiques de fa,on plus rationnelle en am6liorant la qualit6 de
service offert aux usagers (disponibilite accrue, cadences de manutention
satisfaisantes);
* d'appliquer le closing date qui permet aujourd'hui de disposer de plus de 95 % de la
cargaison totalement appretee avant l'arrivee du navire;
* de disposer au sein de la communaute portuaire, de reperes susceptibles d'aider a
une meilleure appreciation des prestations portuaires (mesures et autres
engagements definis de fa,on consensuelle par les intervenants).
Tous ces acquis, et certainement beaucoup d'autres moins perceptibles, ont
permis de respecter les criteres de performance portuaire fixes par la Banque Mondiale. Le
dialogue entre tous les operateurs economiques, le Port Autonome d'Abidjan et
I'Administration devra se poursuivre au sein de la Commission de Competitivite du Port,
cadre de concertation et de decision entre le Secteur Priv6 et I'Administration.
46



111/ RATIONALISATION DES PROCEDURES DOUANIERES
Ce volet comportait plusieurs points:
1 - Bon A enlever automatique (B.A.E.)
La mise en cauvre de cette conditionnalite s'est traduite par l'institution du
B.A.E. automatique; cette procedure qui concerne 80 % de l'ensemble des declarations,
permet l'enlevement des marchandises dans les 24 heures. Seules 20 % des declarations
empruntent le circuit traditionnel avec d6livrance du Bon A Enlever dans les 48 heures.
Le B.A.E automatique a effectivement acc6lere les operations de
d6douanement. Toutefois, il a donne lieu a des abus ayant entrainM notamment des
sous evaluations et des fausses declarations d'espece de marchandises.
Pour faire face a cette situation, I'Administration des Douanes a do proceder
a un redeploiement de son personnel dans le sens d'un renforcement des services
de deuxieme ligne (contr6le a posteriori).
2. Gestion informatis6e des exonerations
Le Programme, en insistant sur cette mesure, a permis au service de
maitriser, sur tout mouvement, les donnees statistiques liees aux exonerations:
manque A gagner, types d'exoneration, beneficiaires etc.
Mais pour des raisons budgetaires la mise en r6seau du systeme, n'est pas
encore op6rationnelle.
3. La suppression des ecritures manuelles
A l'occasion de la mise en cuvre du B.A.E. automatique, les registres ont
ete supprimes au profit des listings elabores par le SYDAM.
4. La proc6dure de declarations d6cadaires a I'exportation
Sur ce point, I'Administration des Douanes a toujours soutenu que cette
procedure est inadaptee dans le contexte actuel. Ce qui explique que l'Administration
n'ait pris aucune disposition pour sa mise en ceuvre.
En effet, ['Administration des Douanes considere que le systeme de
declaration provisoire resout convenablement le probleme des operateurs
economiques concernes. Cette option est d'ailleurs soutenue par les operateurs
economiques eux-memes.
47



5. Convention T.R.I.E.
La Convention ayant 6te ratifiee, le Gouvernement en a concede la gestion
A la Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie, qui doit mettre en place le Fonds de
Garantie devant permettre le fonctionnement de la Convention. Le secteur priv6 ne
s'est pas encore acquitte de cette tache qui lui incombe.
6. Mise A jour et revision du Code des Douanes
Certains articles du Code des Douanes ont ete modifies pour tenir compte
de certaines 6volutions.
En ce qui concerne la revision proprement dite, elle est intervenue dans le
cadre de l'UEMOA qui a mis en place un Tarif Exterieur Commun pour l'ensemble des
pays de l'Union.
Cependant,  I'Administration  des  Douanes  a  pris  une  mesure
d'harmonisation des sanctions douanibres dans le souci d'introduire plus de
transparence. Cette mesure diffus6e aupres du Secteur Prive, permet A tout operateur
de connaitre la nature des sanctions qui lui sont applicables en cas d'irregularit6s
constatees.
7. Guide A l'usage des operateurs economiques
L'Administration a confectionne des depliants sur les divers aspects de la
reglementation douanibre, dans le but d'informer les operateurs 6conomiques.
Conclusion
Le Programme du Credit d'Ajustement Sectoriel pour le Developpement du
Secteur Prive a donn6 l'occasion A la Direction Generale des Douanes d'ameliorer ses
procedures notamment par l'exploitation efficiente des potentialites du SYDAM.
L'Administration entend maintenir les acquis de ce Programme qui a
am6liore considerablement les rapports entre ]'Administration des Douanes et les
operateurs 6conomiques, A en juger par sa participation effective et appreciee aux
organismes mis en place a l'occasion du CAS-DSP, tels que la Communaute Portuaire
et la Commission de competitivite.
Malheureusement, certains operateurs 6conomiques profitent du systeme
mis en place pour s'adonner encore a des pratiques frauduleuses; ces pratiques ont
pour noms la sous evaluation ou minoration de valeur, la fausse declaration d'espece,
l'usage de faux documents, le tout ayant pour objectif de payer des droits et taxes
minores.
48



L'Administration des Douanes, quant a elle, continue de mettre en aeuvre des
mesures susceptibles de juguler les fraudes.
IV/ PROMOTION DES EXPORTATIONS
En raison de l'6troitesse du march6 national et de l'ouverture de l'6conomie
ivoirienne a la concurrence internationale, le d6veloppement des exportations apparait
comme une necessite pour le secteur priv6.
A cet 6gard, le Gouvernement, non seulement s'est engage a une r6forme
institutionnelle visant a confier la promotion des exportations a un organisme dans
lequel le secteur prive est majoritaire, mais a l'occasion du recent remaniement
minist6riel un Ministere de la Promotion du Commerce Ext6rieur a ete cre6 dont les
activites visent a apporter une nouvelle dynamique aux exportations.
Le d6cret de dissolution et de liquidation du Centre de Commerce
International d'Abidjan (CCIA) a 6te pris; un Liquidateur nomm6 et le Personnel limite
au minimum necessaire pour realiser la liquidation. Le nouvel organisme charg6 de la
promotion, I'Agence pour la Promotion des Exportations de C6te d'lvoire (APEX-Cl) a
ete cree conform6ment au paragraphe 111.10 de la Lettre de Politique de
Developpement du Secteur Priv6. Sa mise en place se poursuit dans le cadre du projet
d'appui au renforcement des capacites du Secteur Prive.
Le cr6dit IDA relatif a ce projet a 6t6 mis en vigueur.
WI REVISION DES PROCEDURES ET SANCTIONS FISCALES
Ce volet a permis une r6vision des procedures et sanctions fiscales qui
assurent en pratique l'efficacit6 du dispositif fiscal.
II a fallu regrouper, completer, homog6n6iser et reformer un ensemble de
textes disperses au sein du Code G6n6ral des Imp6ts et de divers textes particuliers.
Cette d6marche a abouti a l'adoption:
de l'Ordonnance n° 96-214 du 9 mars 1996 pour regler les questions urgentes et
securiser davantage les contribuables dans leur rapport avec l'Administration
fiscale;
49



- de la Loi n° 97-244 du 26 avril 1997 portant Livre des Procedures Fiscales dont il
convient de donner l'economie du dispositif et de fournir un bilan apres quelqtes
mois d'application.
1. L'economie du dispositif du Livre de Proc6dures Fiscales
Le Livre de Proc6dures Fiscales concu comme un document distinct mais
complementaire du Code G6n6ral des Impots est subdivise en six parties:
- le recouvrement de l'imp6t;
- les sanctions;
- le contentieux;
- le domaine d'application;
- les dispositions finales.
Les principales caracteristiques du Livre de procedures Fiscales se presentent
comme suit:
a) - Au niveau du controle de l'imp6t
Outre les dispositions generales sur le contr6le, ce chapitre comporte les
garanties essentielles accordees aux contribuables, notamment dans le domaine sensible
des controles sur place. II s'agit notamment:
- avant tout controle sur place, de l'obligation pour le verificateur de remettre au
contribuable un avis de verification precisant les periodes et les impots soumis a
contr6le, et l'informant de son droit de se faire assister d'un conseil de son choix;
- de la duree de la verification qui ne peut exceder douze mois, sauf cas
exceptionnels;
- du d6lai imparti au contribuable pour repondre a une notification de redressement
qui ne saurait etre inferieur a trente (30) jours;
- de la generalisation de la proc6dure de redressement contradictoire qui met la
preuve a la charge de l'Administration.
Cette partie institue egalement une Commission Mixte Paritaire chargee de
connaltre des litiges survenant entre l'Administration fiscale et les contribuables a
50



I'occasion d'une proc6dure de redressement contradictoire cons6cutive a une verification
sur place de comptabilite.
La Commission Mixte Paritaire n'est pas encore fonctionnelle en raison du fait
que tous ses membres n'ont pas encore 6t6 design6s par les structures concern6es que
sont le Ministere de la Justice et des Droits de I'Homme, la Direction G6nerale des
Imp6ts, la Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie et le Conseil National du Patronat
Ivoirien.
Par ailleurs, la prescription d'assiette en ce qui concerne les differentes
natures d'imp6ts est pr6cisee, ainsi que les regles tenant au droit de communication, au
secret professionnel et a la proc6dure de repression des abus de droit.
b) - Au niveau du recouvrement de l'imp6t
Les proc6dures de recouvrement de I'imp6t sont unifiees et les garanties
accord6es aux contribuables precisees et renforc6es. Le sursis a paiement est en effet
introduit au benefice des contribuables qui contestent le bien fonde des sommes qui leur
sont reclam6es.
c) - Au niveau des sanctions
Le r6gime des sanctions fiscales est harmonise dans le sens d'une baisse
considerable des taux, en moyenne de 200 % a 50 %, sur la base des principes de
hierarchisation selon la nature des imp6ts, la procedure de taxation, le degre de sinc6rite
du contribuable et le montant des droits compromis.
Le dispositif de repression penale reprend pour 1'essentiel les dispositions du
Code Penal relatives respectivement a la rebellion et a la r6sistance a l'imp6t.
Dans ces differents cas, les d6linquants sont passibles d'amendes et de peines
privatives de liberte.
d) - Au niveau du contentieux de l'imp6t
Le contentieux de l'assiette ne comporte pas d'innovations majeures par
rapport au dispositif pr6cedent sauf en ce qui concerne le delai de r6clamation qui est
porte de 1 a 2 ans.
Par contre, le contentieux du recouvrement quasi inexistant dans la legislation
ant6rieure, fait l'objet de dispositions specifiques.
Cette innovation s'inscrit dans le sens de l'un des objectifs du Livre de
Procedures Fiscales qui consiste a accorder des droits et des garanties etendus aux
contribuables.
51



2. Le bilan de l'application du Livre de Proc6dures Fiscales
Le Livre de Procedures Fiscales qui vise les elements de fiscalit6 contenus
dans le Code G6n6ral des Imp6ts, ou dans tout autre texte est d'application recente. II ne
peut par consequent etre etabli un veritable bilan de l'application dudit Livre.
Toutefois, des difficultes d'application et deux saisines de ia Commission Mixte
Paritaire ont ete enregistrees.
Un s6minaire sera prochainement organis6 conjointement par la Direction
G6n6rale des Impots et la Direction G6n6rale de la Comptabilit6 publique et du Tr6sor a
l'attention des diff6rents utilisateurs (agents de I'Etat, contribuables...). Une evaluation
plus pr6cise de l'impact du Livre de Procedures Fiscales sera alors possible.
VI/ ASSOUPLISSEMENT DE LA REGLEMENTATION DU TRAVAIL
La reforme de la Iegislation du Travail qui a abouti a l'adoption en 1995 d'un
nouveau Code du Travail a permis d'une part, d'adapter les textes a l'6volution de
1'entreprise et au march6 du travail, aux methodes et moyens de production et, d'autre
part, de marquer la preponderance de 1'entreprise afin de favoriser l'investissement
productif, facteur de cr6ation d'emploi.
Dans le cadre de l'application effective de ce nouveau Code vingt cinq
decrets d'application ont ete pris, qui traitent des questions essentielles relatives a
l'emploi, aux conditions de travail, aux relations professionnelles ainsi que l'hygi6ne, la
s6curite et la sante du travail.
Par ailleurs, il faut relever que trois avant-projets de decrets ont ete soumis
. Ia Commission Consultative du Travail pour avis. II s'agit des avant-projets suivants:
1    Avant-projet de d6cret relatif a la qualit6 du milieu du travail;
2    Avant-projet de d6cret portant fixation des conditions d'ouverture, de
fermeture des economats et des services sociaux.
3     Avant-projet de decret relatif aux salaires;
Si les deux premiers avant-projets sont actuellement sur le point d'etre
adoptes par les prochains Conseils des Ministres, le dernier relatif aux salaires est en
cours de discussion avec le Minist6re de la Justice et des Droits de l'Homme, suite a
I'avis de la Commission Consultative du Travail qui a recommande une telle d6marche
pour tenir compte de certains aspects juridictionnels comme la procedure de saisie-
arret sur salaire.
52



Malgre les observations des Organisations professionnelles de travailleurs
en ce qui concerne I'adoption du nouveau Code, il convient de noter que la reforme de-
la l6gislation du travail ne fait pas l'objet de difficultes particulieres dans la mesure ou
les textes d'application sont discutes au sein de la Commission Consultative du Travail
regroupant le patronat (CNPI, UNEMAF, SCIMPEX, SEICI, FIPME, UNIPL) et les
organisations syndicales (UGTCI, FESACI, DIGNITE).
Au total, il convient de noter que I'assouplissement de la reglementation du
Travail a fait l'objet d'une attention soutenue du Gouvernement qui a le souci de
promouvoir un secteur prive dynamique.
Vill TRANSPORT MARITIME
Introduction
Au titre des transports maritimes, le Programme devait servir de cadre a
I'achevement de la lib6ralisation initi6e par le CARE. 11 en resulte qu'une 6valuation
des deux programmes s'impose pour tirer les enseignements susceptibles de fonder
une appr6ciation objective.
Les dispositions pr6vues dans le CAS-DSP, s'agissant du transport maritime
apparaissent marginales. La periode transitoire, prevue pour permettre au pavilion
national de s'adapter a travers 1'exploitation de 50 % des droits de trafic specialises, a
ate marquee par la disparition de l'armement public SITRAM et l'impossibilite pour la
COMARCO qui lui a succ6d6 au niveau de ce trafic, de faire demarrer ses activit6s.
L'evaluation devra permettre de situer:
- le niveau des coCits;
- le niveau de la concurrence.
En effet, devenue elle meme exploitant de navire, a la faveur de la
lib6ralisation, l'Organisation de Commercialisation des Fruits (OCAB) a fait signer a
ses membres un contrat d'exclusivite de transport en faveur de sa filiale transport
(SITROCAB) cr6ant ainsi un monopole prive, contraire a l'objectif de concurrence
recherche par le Programme.
Le volet transport maritime du CAS-DSP comportait enfin la reforme de I'OIC
dans le sens d'une reorientation de ses missions, de la restructuration de son capital et
de la refonte progressive de son mode de financement.
53



Pour ce qui est du premier aspect, la r6orientation des missions s'est
traduite surtout par une red6finition des missions de la structure et par la suppression-
de la mission de service public r6mun6r6e par la commission de rationalisation.
S'agissant de la restructuration du capital, conformement aux engagements
pris, la part de I'Etat a et6 ramenee a moins de 35 % des actions avec droit de vote. La
privatisation a entrain6 quelques difficultes notamment dans la procedure et la formule
du portage, de sorte qu'un faible nombre d'operateurs du commerce ext6rieur sont
aujourd'hui pr6sents dans le capital.
En ce qui concerne la refonte du mode de financement, la suppression de la
commission de rationalisation n'est pas conforme a I'accord regional conclu avec la
Banque Mondiale dans le cadre de ia Table Ronde de Cotonou.
L'ex6cution du programme n'a pas suffisamment pris en compte
l'environnement international marque notamment par 1'echec de I'OMC sur la question
de la lib6ralisation des services maritimes. L'impact global de cette r6forme devra etre
mesure dans le cadre de l'evaluation du Programme CARE.
VIII/ ASSOUPLISSEMENT DE L'ACCES AUX PROFESSIONS REGLEMENTEES
1. Conditionnalites
La conditionnalite du Programme relative a l'assouplissement de I'accbs aux
professions reglementees prevoyait deux phases:
Phase n°1
lib6ralisation des ouvertures de boulangeries, de distribution locale de riz, du
commerce de ciment et de l'importation des vehicules d'occasion;
Phase n02
- recensement exhaustif des autres activit6s dans le cadre de
reglementations etVou de conventions conferant des monopoles;
- realisation d'etudes permettant d'appr6cier l'opportunit6 et la faisabilite de
la liberalisation des activit6s qui auront et6 recensees;
- sur la base des resultats des etudes, d6termination des activites a
liberaliser et mise en ceuvre, en ce qui concerne ces activites, de la
liberalisation (definition des cadres reglementaires prevoyant les conditions
54



d'acces A ces activites, lib6ralisation d'au moins trois (3) de ces activit6s en
1997 et publication de d6crets ou arret6s pertinents relatifs a ces activites).
2. Resultats
Phase n°1
- ouverture de boulangerie: le Decret n° 96-211 du 09 mars 1996 a consacre
la lib6ralisation des ouvertures de boulangeries en CMte d'lvoire.
- commerce de riz: le Decret no 95-373 du 30 mars 1995 a dissout la Caisse
Gen6rale de P6requation des Prix des Produits et Marchandises de Grande
Consommation qui d6tenait le monopole des importations et celui de la
distribution du riz de grande consommation sur le territoire national. Cette
lib6ralisation des importations et de la distribution du riz a 6t6 consacree
respectivement par i'arrete interminist6riel (MIC, MINAGRA, MEFP) no 062
du 30 mai 1995 qui a precis6 les modalites de la liberalisation des
importations et la circulaire no 095/MIC/DMCRF du 23 janvier 1996 portant
liberalisation de la distribution du riz sur toute l'6tendue du territoire
national.
- commerce de ciment: le commerce de ciment a ete liberalise depuis I'arrete
n' 008 du 23 janvier 1996 portant lib6ralisation de la distribution du ciment
sur le territoire national.
- importation des v6hicules d'occasion: les v6hicules de tourisme usages
sont liber6s a l'importation depuis le Decret n° 96-01 du 03 janvier 1996.
Phase n°2
L'etude d'opportunite et de faisabilit6 de la liberalisation des activites
reglementees et monopolistiques en Cote d'lvoire a ete confiee au Bureau National
d'Etudes Techniques et de D6veloppement (BNETD).
Le recensement exhaustif effectu6 dans le cadre de cette 6tude a r6vele
1'existence de 153 activit6s r6glement6es etVou monopolistiques qui se presentent de la
facon suivante:
- 11 activit6s liberalisees ou dont les conditions d'acces ont et6 assouplies;
- 35 activites d'acc6s libre;
- 20 activit6s liberalisables a court terme;
55



- 49 activit6s lib6ralisables a moyen et long termes;
- 38 activites non liberalisables.
Bien que la conditionnalite prevoyait la liberalisation ou l'assouplissement des
conditions d'acces d'au moins trois de ces activites, 11 activit6s ont et6 concern6es par
ces mesures de lib6ralisation.
3. Conclusions
Phase I
La liberalisation de l'importation des vehicules d'occasion a eu un impact
favorable sur ce secteur d'activite qui connalt actuellement un veritable boom. En effet,
plus de 70 % des importations de vehicules en Cote d'lvoire sont constituees de vehicules
usages et 85 % de ceux-ci sont destin6s au transport en commun de personnes ou de
marchandises.
Cependant, cette lib6ralisation s'est accompagnee:
- d'une nette regression du secteur de la vente des vehicules neufs;
- d'une forte hausse des taux de pollution et d'accidents de la circulation due au
mauvais 6tat d'entretien de ces v6hicules usag6s. Cette situation a conduit le
Gouvernement ivoirien a prendre une mesure de limitation de l'age des vehicules
d'occasion import6s a moins de 7 ans.
La lib6ralisation a 6t6, a un degre moindre, favorable aux secteurs de la
boulangerie et du commerce de riz qui ont connu une installation relativement importante
de nouveaux operateurs economiques prives.
Ces deux tendances favorables contrastent cependant avec le statu quo
observe dans le secteur de la distribution de ciment ou les operateurs economiques sont
toujours les memes.
Ce statu quo peut trouver son explication dans deux raisons essentielles:
- le ciment est un produit pondereux dont l'importation et la distribution requierent
d'importants investissements financiers;
- les trois (3) soci6tes ivoiriennes productrices (SCA, SICM et SOCIM) ont un
reseau de distribution fortement integre.
56



Phase 2
Les mesures de lib6ralisation et d'assouplissement des conditions d'acces
ayant ete prises en 1997 et 1998, if serait premature de faire une evaluation de l'impact
desdites mesures sur les activites concernees.
Une periode d'observation d'au moins trois ans est necessaire pour rendre
fiable toute evaluation de l'impact.
IX/ LIBERALISATION DE LA DOMICILIATION DE L'ASSURANCE DES FACULTES
MARITIMES A L'IMPORTATION
La conditionnalit6 du PAS Priv6 relative A la lib6ralisation de l'assurance
transport maritime a ete realisee par l'Ordonnance no 97-444 du 08/08/97.
Par consequent, les premiers effets de cette loi sur le secteur des assurances
ne se feront ressentir que sur les operations de l'ann6e 1998 dont les comptes rendus ne
seront connus qu'en 1999. A ce moment, des esquisses d'evaluation des effets pourront
btre r6alis6es.
Pour l'instant, if est donc pr6mature de tirer un bilan de la liberalisation de la
domiciliation de l'assurance transport des facultes maritimes a l'importation.
CONCLUSION GENERALE
Des progres importants ont et6 r6alis6s dans le cadre de 1'execution du Programme
d'Appui au Developpement du Secteur Priv6, mais tous les efforts entrepris doivent
etre poursuivis.
Le present document a ete 6tabli par l'Administration ivoirienne. II serait souhaitable
qu'un bilan plus complet et plus impartial soit 6tabli par un cabinet prive, qui prendra en
compte le point de vue du secteur prive.
57



