Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2843-2 IVC
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 22, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2843-2 IVC 
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit) dated April 12, 1996 
(the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the Borrower's program designed to increase competitiveness and promote 
private sector growth, as described in Recital (A) of the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into the Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit) dated 
November 27, 1996, whereby additional assistance was made available to the Borrower 
for the purpose of providing support during the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional 
assistance in the support of the Program by increasing the amount made available under 
the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
Page  2
twenty-six million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,100,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
paragraph (c) is amended by substituting "SDR 14,000,000" by 
"SDR 40,100,000"; and
(b)
a new paragraph (j) is added reading:
"(i) 'Second Amending Agreement' means the Second Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit  Agreement (Private Sector Development 
Adjustment 
Credit) between the Borrower and the Association, dated 
November 27, 1996."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred 
eighty-seven million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
187,900,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original 
amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-three million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 123,900,000) (the Initial Financing); (b) an 
additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-seven million nine 
hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 37,900,000) (the First 
Additional Financing); and (c) a second 
additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to twenty-six million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 26,100,000) (the Second Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
Paragraph (a) is amended by substituting "paragraph (b), (c), (d) and 
(e)" by "paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f)".
(b)
The following paragraph (f) is added at the end of said Section 2.02 
reading as follows:
"(f) After a date twelve months (or such later date as the Association 
shall 
establish and promptly notify to the Borrower) from the date of the 
Second Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit 
Account in respect of expenditures to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Second 
Additional Financing.  At any time after 
such date, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Second 
Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term "cancelled" the following proviso 
reading:
"and that any commitment charge on: (A) the First Additional Financing 
shall accrue  from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement; and (B) 
the Second 
Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the 
date of the Second 
Amending Agreement."
ARTICLE II
Page  3
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pur\1fsuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder 
shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of 
this Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions 
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D’IVOIRE
By /s/ Moise Koumoué Koffi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
