Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2843 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 12, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER  2843 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 11, 1996 
(hereinafter called the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy) from the 
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
increase competitiveness and promote private sector growth (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in the support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in six tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.";
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account the 
proceeds of 
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of 
these General Conditions. Except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account 
of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, 
is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations.";
(e) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f) 
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit."; and
(g) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“First Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 55,000,000 to be released by the Association on or after the 
Effective Date.
(b)
“Second Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 14,000,000 to be released by the Association after the Borrower has 
complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
(c)
“Third Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 14,000,000 to be released by the Association after the Borrower has 
complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
Page  3
(d)
“Fourth Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 14,000,000 to be released by the Association after the Borrower has 
complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
(e)
“Fifth Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 14,000,000 to be released by the Association after the Borrower has 
complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
(f)
“Sixth Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 12,900,000 to be released by the Association after the Borrower has 
complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
(g)
"CI-TELCOM" means Société Côte d’ Ivoire Télécom, a Société d’Economie 
Mixte established and operating under the laws of the Borrower.
(h)
“Competition Committee” means the Commission de la Concurrence 
established under the Borrower’s Law No. 91-999 of December 27, 1991 and operating 
under the Borrower’s Decree No. 92-52 of January 29, 1992, as may be amended from time 
to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty-three million nine hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 123,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in CFA Francs on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into such deposit account.
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure excluded pursuant 
to the provisions of said Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, (i) deposit into the deposit account referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association 
shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
amount of the First Tranche and unless, with respect to each consecutive Tranche, the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the Borrower’s macro-economic policy framework is consistent 
with the 
objectives of the Program on the basis of indicators 
agreed with the 
Association;
(iii)
that the Borrower has complied with its internal arrears reduction 
program and 
has not incurred new arrears in accordance with paragraph 
III.5 of the Letter 
of Private Sector Development Policy;
Page  4
(iv)
that the Borrower has completed the carrying out of at least one 
of the 
actions or set of actions specified in the respective 
paragraphs of Part A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement which has not 
been previously complied with by 
the Borrower in respect of another 
Tranche; and
(v)
that the Borrower has completed the carrying out of at least one 
of the 
actions or set of actions specified in the respective 
paragraphs of Part B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement which has not 
been previously complied with by 
the Borrower in respect of another 
Tranche.
If, after any such exchange of views described in paragraph (d) above, the Association 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2006 and ending January 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
Page  5
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09.  The General Director of Caisse Autonome d’ Amortissement (CAA) is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of  Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said deposit 
account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Moïse Koumoué Koffi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Page  7
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that 
of another country, expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the 
territory of such other country;
2. 
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit;
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M. No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the 
SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   --
Alcoholic beverages
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   --
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
   --
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non irradiated for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971
   --
Gold, non monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods. For purposes of this 
paragraph, the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; and 
Page  8
6. 
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (i) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods produced in such territories; or (ii) on account of any payment to 
persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Part A
1.
Legal and Judicial Reform
The short-term actions for legal and judicial reform described in Annex 1 to the 
Letter of Private Sector Development Policy have been taken. 
 2.
Streamlining of Port and Customs Procedures
(a) 
The Borrower has furnished satisfactory evidence to the Association that 
the Port Autonome d’ Abidjan has complied over the preceding period of six months, on 
average, with the following performance indicators: (i) duration of stay for 
containers, 7 days for imports, 3 days for exports; (ii) availability of gantry 
cranes, 90%; and (iii) number of containers unloaded, 16 gross per hour, as set forth 
in paragraph III.2 of the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy. 
(b) 
The Borrower has furnished satisfactory evidence to the Association that 
Abidjan customs office has: (i) complied over the preceding period of six months, on 
average, with the following performance indicators for the customs clearance of goods: 
“green circuit” (for goods subject to automatic clearance order), 24 hours and “red 
circuit” (for goods subject to systematic control), 48 hours; and (ii) implemented a 
computerized management system for exemptions and a procedure for cumulative 
declarations every ten days by large exporters; all as set forth in paragraph III.3 of 
the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy.
3.
Export Promotion
(a)
The Borrower has: (i) published the decree of dissolution and liquidation 
of Centre de Commerce International d’ Abidjan (CCIA); (ii) appointed CCIA’s 
liquidator; and (iii) limited CCIA’s staff to the minimum level required to complete 
liquidation; and (b) an export promotion organization has been created in accordance 
with paragraph III.10 of the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy.
4.
Telecommunications
At least 51% of the voting stock of CI-TELCOM has been sold to a private sector 
investor or a group of affiliated private sector investors.
5.
Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs
The Borrower has reduced its shareholding in Office Ivoirien des Chargeurs (OIC) 
by transfer to private sector parties so that the aggregate shareholding of the 
Borrower and of the public sector entities does not exceed 35% of the voting stock.
Part B
1.
Reform of Tax Procedures and Penalties
The Borrower has incorporated revised tax procedures and penalties in the 
Borrower’s 1997 budget law, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Reform of Customs Procedures and Penalties
(a)
The Borrower has incorporated in its 1997 budget law revised customs 
procedures and penalties and revised tariff structures for assembly industries, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association; all in accordance with paragraphs III.3 and 
Page  9
III.11 of the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy.
(b)
The Borrower has published a User’s Guide to customs procedures in 
accordance with paragraph III.3 of the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy.
3.
Labor Legislation
For the implementation of Law No. 95-15 of January 12, 1995 portant Code du 
Travail, the Borrower has published the decrees listed in Annex 2 to the Letter of 
Private Sector Development Policy, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association.
4.
Competition Policy and Further Liberalization of Production and Domestic 
Marketing Activities
(a)
The Borrower has published a law modifying Article 6 of Law No. 91-999 of 
December 27, 1991 to enable individual firms to submit any competition matter relevant 
to said firms to the Competition Committee.
(b)
With a view to making enforcement of its competition policy more 
effective, the Borrower has taken all the measures set forth in paragraph III.7-C of 
the Letter of Private Sector Development Policy, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, to strengthen the Competition Committee, including an increase of its 
membership from seven to nine, of whom at least four from the private sector, and 
providing for adequate compensation for the services rendered by said members, and has 
published a decree modifying Decree No. 92-52 of January 28, 1992 to that effect.
(c)
The Borrower has published relevant decrees or arrêtés which allow any 
person in the territory of the Borrower to undertake activities in at least three 
service areas in accordance with paragraph III.7-D of the Letter of Private Sector 
Development Policy, to be determined in agreement with the Association.
(d)
The Borrower has defined the conditions for equivalency between the 
diploma of Certified Public Accountant (CPA) and the diplomas recognized in the 
Borrower’s territory to practice as expert-comptable.
5.
Maritime Insurance
The Borrower has published a law and a decree respectively modifying Law No. 
86-485 and Decree No. 86-486, both of July 1, 1986, to remove the provision requiring 
all importers to underwrite maritime freight insurance with companies established in 
the territory of the Borrower.
