                                          Document of
                                      The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY




                                                                      Report No: ICR00001272



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                  ON A
                DFID GRANT EXECUTED BY THE RECIPIENT
       IN THE AMOUNT OF £5,330,000 (US$9.5 Million equivalent at approval)
                       (TA-P088116-TAS TF053279)

                                            TO THE

                             PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                              FOR

                 THE PRO-POOR RURAL WATER REFORM PROJECT


                                        March 30, 2010




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective from September 2004)
                         Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                       (Average over project period)
                            Y1.00 = US$0.1317
                           US$ 1.00 = Y 7.593

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAB       Civil Affairs Bureau
CAD       Comprehensive Agricultural Development
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CIDDC     China Irrigation and Drainage Development Center (of MWR)
CPMO      Central Project Management Office (of MWR and SOCAD)
DFID      Department for International Development
GA        Grant Agreement (between MOF and WB)
GEF       Global Environmental Facility
GOC       Government of China
IAIL2/3   Irrigated Agricultural Intensification II and III Projects (under SOCAD)
IBTF      Initiating Brief for a Trust Fund (prepared by World Bank)
ICM       Implementation Completion Memorandum
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ID        Irrigation District
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MCA       Ministry of Civil Affairs
MIS       Management Information System (for project)
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding (between DFID and World Bank)
MWR       Ministry of Water Resources
NDRC      National Development and Reform Commission
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PC        Project Coordinator
PIP       Project Implementation Plan (prepared by MWR and SOCAD CPMOs)
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMO       Project Management Office
PPRWRP     Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform Project
POCAD     Provincial Office for CAD
PPMO      Provincial PMO
SIDD      Self-financing (Self-managing) Irrigation and Drainage District
SOCAD     State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
TA        Technical Assistance
WRB       Water Resources Bureau
WSC       Water Supply Corporation
WUA       Water User Association
WUAF      Water User Association Federation (of WUAs)
WUG       Water User Group (in a WUA)
WUA-MES   Water User Association - Monitoring and Evaluation System



                      Vice President: James W. Adams, EAPVP
                    Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                     Sector Manager: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS
                 Project Team Leader: Qun Li, EASER
                   ICR Team Leader: Qun Li, EASER
                                                             China

                                   Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform Project
                            Implementation Completion and Results Report


                                                           Contents


                                                                                                                       Page no.
Data Sheet

Section
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ ii
  E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
  1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................ 1
  2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...................................... 12
  3.    Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................... 17
  4.    Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome ................................................ 22
  5.    Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance............................................... 23
  6.    Lessons Learned ................................................................................................. 25
  7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors ........ 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes...... 39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 40
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 44
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 45
  Not applicable. .............................................................................................................. 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46


    MAP IBRD 37676
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Pro-Poor Rural Water
Country:               China                   Project Name:
                                                                         Reform Project
Project ID:            P088116                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-53279
ICR Date:              05/31/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         OF CHINA
Original Total
                       USD 9.5M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 10.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 9.5M
Environmental Category: U
Implementing Agencies:
 State Office for Comprehensive Agriculture Development (SOCAD)
 China Irrigation and Drainage Design Center
 Ministry of Water Resources
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/04/2004   Effectiveness:                               09/14/2004
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/19/2004   Mid-term Review:           11/30/2006        12/01/2006
                                    Closing:                   12/31/2008        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Highly Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                               100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Participation and civic engagement                                     33                  33
Water resource management                                              67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Mark D. Wilson
Project Team Leader:       Qun Li                               Richard B. Reidinger
ICR Team Leader:           Qun Li
ICR Primary Author:        Richard B. Reidinger


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To promote and assist reform of the management of small-scale rural irrigation water
facilities: (a) through establishment of farmer Water User Associations (WUAs) based on
democratic participatory irrigation management, to help maximize benefits to poor
farmers, women and disadvantaged groups; and (b) through the World Bank#s sector
work program on WUAs. Overall, the aim of the project was to support a participatory
form of irrigation management which is socially equitable and environmentally
sustainable.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                                  ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
                  Rural water Reform program extended in 7 provinces in Phase 1 and in an
Indicator 1 :     additional 7 provinces in phase two by end of project (12/31/2008)

Value
                                           7 Phase 1 and 7                  7 Phase 1 and 7
quantitative or   0                                          NA
                                           Phase 2 provinces                Phase 2 provinces
Qualitative)
Date achieved   08/24/2004                 06/30/2009          06/30/2009    06/30/2009
Comments        Expected targets have been fully achieved (in MWR component, Phase1 and
(incl. %        Phase 2 provinces are the same three Provinces; for Phase 2, SOCAD selected
achievement)    Xinjiang, same as MWR)
                Security/equity of water supply improved for poor farmers and for women and
Indicator 2 :
                disadvantages groups
                                           Model WUA
                                           Charter revised to
                                                                             All WUAs used the
Value                                      include gender and
                                                                             revised model
quantitative or No consistent approach pro-poor aspects NA
                                                                             WUA charter as
Qualitative)                               related to the
                                                                             planned.
                                           improved water
                                           supply.
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009    06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The expected target had been achieved by 100 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : WUAs are participatory, socially equitable and environmentally sustainable.
                                           All WUAs created                  All WUAs under
Value                                      under the project                 the project have
                No base line data
quantitative or                            will be assessed as NA            been assessed as
                established
Qualitative)                               meetign t hese                    meeting these
                                           requirements.                     requirements.
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/10/2009          06/10/2009    06/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The expected target had been fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Adopt National Policy for WUAs issued and adopted
Value
quantitative or No Policy issued           2                   NA            8
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009    06/30/2009
Comments        Eight national policy documents were issued and adopted, which is 400 percent
(incl. %        of the target value.



                                               iii
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of WUA demonstrated and extended in project provinces.
                                                                              497 WUAs
Value                                      447 WUAs
                                                                              demonstrated and
(quantitative   0                          demonstrated and NA
                                                                              extended (plus 8
or Qualitative)                            extended.
                                                                              WUA federations)
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        About 111 percent of the target value.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of provincial policy documents for WUAs issued and adopted .
Value
(quantitative   0                          23                  NA             62
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        About 270 percent of the target value.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Adopt and implement a gender strategy for the project.
                                           Gender strategy
                                           completed and
Value
                                           gender issues fully
(quantitative   No gender strategy                             NA             Fully achieved
                                           integrated into
or Qualitative)
                                           revised WUA
                                           charter.
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009     06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The expected target had been fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Special training for women and poor persons.
Value
(quantitative   0                          51829.00            NA             295464.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009     06/30/2009
Comments        Achieved about 570% of the target value (not counting training for common
(incl. %        farmers, which included women and the poor and achieved nearly ten times the
achievement) target)
                Use of fully developed Participatory Processes (PP) in the formation phase of
Indicator 5 : WUAs to ensure pro-poor focus and the inclusion of the poor, women and
                disadvantaged groups.
Value           Little or no use of modern Over 95% of all NA                 100% of all Phase 1



                                               iv
(quantitative   participatory process in   phase 1 and phase                and Phase 2 WUAs
or Qualitative) the formation phase of     2 WUAs formed                    formed through PP
                WUAs.                      using PP. PP                     approach
                                           incorporated as an
                                           integral process in
                                           revised WUA
                                           charter.
Date achieved 08/24/2004                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009   06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %      The planned targets have been fully achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2008        Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                 8.70
  2     06/26/2009        Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               10.17


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                                v
                                           CHINA

                 PRO-POOR RURAL WATER REFORM PROJECT

          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


 (Introductory Note: The Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform Project (PPRWRP) was financed by
DFID, and no Bank PAD was prepared to provide the background, context and details of the
project. Moreover, as a technical assistance (TA) project, PPRWRP is substantially different
from a standard Bank loan project in design, preparation, implementation and evaluation.
To compensate, the sections and presentation below therefore provide much more detail than
a standard ICR. In addition, PPRWRP included a separate Bank-executed trust fund which
provided specialized technical assistance and support for WUA development under the
project; results from that trust fund are referred to as "Output 5" and detailed in the ICM for
the trust fund.)

1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Design and Preparation

1.1.1 Need for Local Water Management Reform. With China's rapid social and
economic development, water demand growth has increasingly outstripped supply. As
a result, since the initial reforms and opening up in the early 1980s, the Government of
China (GOC) has undertaken various improvements and reforms in irrigation systems and
their management to increase water efficiency and productivity. During the mid- and late
1990s in particular, China began to carry out various rural irrigation management system
reforms at the grass-roots level, one of the most important of which was the development
of farmer-managed Water User Associations (WUAs) which were intended to take over
responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of small-scale or end-canal
(terminal) irrigation facilities in large, medium and small scale irrigation districts (IDs)
and schemes. The need for this reform was driven by a number of factors and issues,
including in particular the closing of agricultural communes which had previously
managed water at that level. This left a water management "gap" between ID-managed
water supply, and the water delivery to farmers. In many cases, villages assumed this
responsibility, but villages are not operated or trained as hydraulic organizations, and
they have many other important and high priority responsibilities in rural affairs. In
addition, due to lack of local resources, small-scale distribution facilities often were built
to poor standards or left incomplete, and hence were difficult or impossible to manage
effectively.

1.1.2 Over time, the irrigation management system for small-scale facilities became
increasingly ineffective in meeting the needs of both agricultural development and the
farmers themselves. Local irrigation facilities and service deteriorated due to
inadequate investment and maintenance, while at the same time irrigated agriculture
became more demanding and sophisticated, These changes required better, more
precise, and more reliable irrigation service. A major underlying cause for this

                                              1
situation lay with the incomplete local water management system and the undefined
responsibilities for construction, ownership, management and use of small-scale
irrigation facilities among stakeholders. This led to inadequate small-scale facilities,
a shortened useful life of such facilities and projects, reduced benefits, water waste,
water conflicts, unwillingness and inability by farmers to pay adequate water charges,
and overall inefficient and unbalanced distribution and delivery of irrigation water. To
fill the gap between water suppliers and users, a local-level organization specifically for
water management was needed. Such an organization should have a mandate and
responsibility for management and O&M of small-scale irrigation facilities and for
efficient delivery of water to farmers. For high efficiency and sustainability, it would
also need to be fully supported by and answerable to farmers and organized to reflect
their specific needs.

1.1.3 Development of WUAs. Recognizing these and other such related problems,
China used a World Bank loan for the Yangtze Basin Water Resource Project
(Ln.3874, Cr.2710) in Hunan and Hubei to officially introduce and support the
development of WUAs, with the first WUA in China established in Hubei in 1995.
This process had the strong support of the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) and
was done as part of piloting a major new institutional reform in ID management called
the "Self-financed (Self-managed) Irrigation and Drainage Districts" (SIDD),
designed to match Chinese conditions and needs. The SIDD concept was comprised
of: (a) farmer-managed WUAs responsible for O&M of the end-canal, small-scale
water delivery facilities, and (b) Water Supply Corporations (WSCs) responsible for
overall ID main system O&M and management. SIDDs were intended to provide
better irrigation service to the farmers, make irrigation more efficient and responsive
to farmer needs, and also reduce the financial and management burden of irrigation
for the government. The basic concepts behind the SIDDS were that: (a) irrigation and
drainage schemes should be self-managing and self-operating in terms of legal and
institutional aspects, and self-maintaining and self-financing (as much as possible) in
terms of financial aspects; (b) the farmer water users through their WUAs should
participate directly in water management since they had the strongest interest in better
irrigation service, and (c) the WUAs would purchase water from water suppliers (e.g.,
IDs or WSCs) by volume on behalf of their farmer members and deliver it to farmers
according to their demand, rather than according to irrigated area which was the
traditional practice.

1.1.4 The Yangtze Basin Project was the first case in China where water
management reforms in the form of SIDDs were included in a Bank-financed water
resources or irrigation projects and specified in the legal documents for the project
loan. The SIDDs and WUAs became a model for reform in a series of future irrigation
projects. More significantly, it was also the first time in China that farmers were
officially encouraged in a project context to organize their own water management
organizations (WUAs) based on "participatory irrigation management". It was also
the first time that a Bank-financed project incorporated such participatory
organizations for management of small irrigation works and thus turned over major



                                            2
management responsibilities to the farmers themselves based on modern participatory
concepts.

1.1.5 The piloting of WUAs under MWR and its lower level Water Resource
Bureaus (WRBs) and IDs continued in various Bank-financed projects; e.g., in the
Tarim Basin II Project (Ln.4341, Cr.3093) and the Water Conservation Project
(Ln.4589). Under the SIDDs, experience with WSCs was inconclusive due to
institutional barriers, but WUAs proved to be highly successful. WUAs have
consistently produced strong benefits for both farmers and the government, including
increased crop production, water savings, reduced water conflicts, more timely and
reliable water supplies leading to higher-value crop patterns, improved water charge
collection rates, and reduced management burdens on local governments. Encouraged
by these results, and with strong support from MWR and Bank-financed projects, the
WRBs and IDs in many provinces and large municipalities (such as Beijing) have
reinforced and expanded WUA development. Since 1995, a total of nine Bank-
financed or administered projects have included or added WUAs, while at the same
time WUAs have been directly piloted and spread under domestic-financed irrigation
projects and programs with MWR support. The total number of WUAs has expanded
rapidly from some 1500 (mostly in Bank-financed projects) in about 2001, to about
23,000 in 2005 and more than 40,000 at present. The WUAs are now set up mostly in
domestic-financed projects, and they currently cover about 25percent of irrigated
areas in China. These WUAs are all based on direct farmer participation in and
management of local irrigation, albeit to varying degrees. GOC core agencies,
including the State Council, the National Development and Reform Commission
(NDRC), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the Ministry of Civil Affairs (MCA),
have provided strong policy support for WUAs through their own channels over the
past few years to the WUA initiative.

1.1.6 MWR and its line agencies, however, have the most direct concern with and
responsibility for WUAs. MWR has overall responsibility for water resource
development, management and policy in China (with the exception of some aspects
relating to groundwater) as well as ownership and O&M responsibility for some very
large water resource projects, and it is also responsible for promoting water saving
and water efficiency and has invested heavily in large-scale irrigation districts and
their rehabilitation. As the overall manager of the water resources sector, it therefore
has a direct strategic interest in efficient, sustainable WUAs as a tool for increasing
water efficiency and productivity, saving water, improving returns and benefits to
farmers from irrigation investments, financial viability of IDs, strengthening irrigation
O&M, improving water charge collection, and promoting long term sustainability of
irrigation and drainage systems, and it has strongly supported WUA development
starting from the initial piloting in Hunan and Hubei.

1.1.7 A major constraint, however, was that MWR did not generally invest directly
in small-scale or terminal irrigation facilities on which the WUAs depend. In IDs,
for example, these investments were usually left to local governments and farmers,
and very often in the past such facilities were often incomplete, inadequate or not

                                           3
constructed at all due to lack of local financial resources. In addition, the farmers had
no organizations such as WUAs for local irrigation management, and local
governments generally had no budget funds to cover organizational development
costs, such as farmer training, establishment costs, registration, and water
measurement facilities. Over time, this situation has impacted adversely irrigated
production and returns on irrigation investments. Thus, Bank-financed water
resources projects such as the Yangtze Basin Project, Tarim Basin II Project in
Xinjiang and the Water Conservation Project under MWR, were especially important
to assist with piloting of WUAs because they directly provided financing for
necessary small-scale irrigation facilities as well as for WUA support.

1.1.8 Comprehensive Agricultural Development and WUAs. In the early 1990s,
GOC recognized that large investments in small-scale irrigation facilities were needed
but that they should be accompanied by related investments in agriculture, forestry,
village roads, and other rural infrastructure to obtain maximum benefits. The
Comprehensive Agricultural Development (CAD) program was established to bring
all these investment elements together under the State Office for Comprehensive
Agricultural Development (SOCAD), which was initially set up directly under the
State Council (central cabinet) and is now under the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
Since its inception, CAD has invested billions of Yuan in small-scale irrigation
facilities (as well as in agriculture, forestry, environmental management, etc.) and
today it invests some Y10 billion annually, with about 70% in small irrigation
facilities.

1.1.9 Although the CAD system was exceptionally efficient as an investor in small-
scale irrigation, it suffered from a major drawback, namely, upon completion of
CAD-financed, small-scale facilities, there was no specific unit or organization to
take over responsibility for ownership and O&M of the facilities. This often led to
rapid deterioration of CAD facilities and limited the returns and benefits from such
investments. To help deal with this serious issue, CAD began to introduce SIDDs and
WUAs into its program in the late 1990s through the Bank-financed Irrigated
Agriculture Intensification Loan II Project (Ln.4354) which was approved in 1998.
The WUAs in particular proved quite effective and beneficial for both farmers and
government, and in 2005 WUA development under CAD was further strengthened
and expanded through the Irrigated Agriculture Intensification III Project (Ln.4803)
and in 2006 through the associated GEF-financed Mainstreaming of Climate Change
Adaptation into Irrigated Agriculture Project (US$5 million grant); the GEF project is
associated with IAIL3 and includes WUAs as a key institutional mechanism at the
field level to promote and support climate change adaptation among farmers.

1.1.10 Under IAIL2, WUAs were piloted under the CAD program for the first time.
WUAs in the five project provinces (in the Huang-Huai-Hai River Basins region),
proved highly successful, and their results included increased grain production, water
saving and decreased water waste, increased water charge collection rates, reduced or
eliminated water conflicts among farmers, enhanced farmer participation and
"ownership" resulting in better maintenance and management of facilities, and

                                            4
increased farmer enthusiasm to participate directly in construction and O&M and
management of irrigation facilities. In WUA areas, farmers also participated in the
planning and layout design of their local irrigation systems, which resulted in systems
designed to more closely match their needs and local conditions and enhanced local
ownership. Under IAIL3 and the GEF Project, WUA development under CAD was
expanded and coverage intensity has increased in the five provinces originally
included in IAIL2, and was further extended to five additional provinces (a total of 10
provinces). IAIL3 and the GEF Project have also incorporated and followed closely
the improved WUA principles, standards methods developed under PPRWRP. Over
the years, WUAs have proven to be an effective management model of local irrigation
schemes under CAD, and have provided an effective solution for the problem of
O&M of CAD irrigation works after construction, which had been a critical weakness
of the CAD system over many years.

1.1.11 Genesis of the Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform Project (PPRWRP). By
about 2001, and although their Bank-financed projects were completely separate in
project area and institutional arrangements at the local level, MWR and SOCAD had
developed a substantial common interest in WUAs which could take long-term
responsibility for small-scale irrigation facilities and their O&M. However, even with
the good piloting results achieved with WUAs, many problems and constraints still
limited the potential for long-term establishment and popularization of WUAs. The
most serious constraints were the lack of: (a) official policy support and guidance for
WUAs from the central government and lower levels; (b) capacity and training for
effective WUA development at all levels; (c) standardized principles, quality criteria
and development methodologies for WUAs; and (d) systems designed for monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) of WUAs and dissemination and awareness raising of WUAs
benefits. Other weak areas included standardized criteria and methods designed for
improved; sustainable WUA development; specialized technical assistance and
training to support national WUA development; systematic and in-depth mechanisms
for study and analysis of WUAs and their impacts and benefits; and monitoring and
information feedback on WUA development and performance to identify and deal
with WUA problems. Anecdotal evidence indicated that WUAs, especially those
outside Bank-financed projects, usually did not have adequate training, local support,
farmer participation and independence needed for effective functioning and
sustainability, and many were in fact WUAs in name only. However, such issues
were not identified and dealt with. Moreover, the potential of WUAs based on
democratic water management to help the rural poor and disadvantaged groups was
almost completely ignored. This was especially the case for women, many of whom
were left to manage the family and farm alone when the men left the village for work
outside and thus were at a disadvantage in "fighting" for their irrigation water. These
types of social benefits from WUAs were supported by anecdotal evidence but had
not been understood or built into WUA development, which had generally been
treated very much as a narrow technical activity solely focused on achieving better
water management.




                                           5
1.1.12 Moreover, early WUAs were neither understood nor accepted widely at the
grassroots level, much less nationally (or even in all of MWR). Funding for WUA
development and training was not provided in budgets, and local governments almost
universally lacked awareness about both the development potential and benefits and
the needs of WUAs. As a result, support given to WUA development at the local
level was often weak and ineffective.

1.1.13 Against this backdrop, MWR, SOCAD, the Department for International
Development (DFID) from UK, and the Bank agreed in 2002 to develop the "Pro-
Poor Rural Water Reform Project" (PPRWRP) to provide a model for pro-poor reform
of local irrigation management based on sustainable, improved WUA development.
The project would be financed by DFID grant funds and matching domestic
counterpart funds, implemented by MWR and SOCAD, and administered by the
Bank. The program would include four primary outputs for WUA development ­
policy support, capacity building, pilot WUA development, and monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) ­ as well as a specialized technical support component to be
managed by the Bank. In initial discussions, the parties agreed on a number of key
issues, and in particular that MWR, as the responsible agency for national water
policy, would promptly arrange to issue a national policy statement on WUAs which
would provide permanent policy support for WUAs and their development.

1.1.14 Principles and Quality Standards for "Standardized" WUAs. A key problem
with WUAs in the past was that they were established following a wide range of often-
low standards and quality which adversely affected WUA performance and sustainability.
Correcting this and standardizing WUA development using improved quality standards
was a major focus of the project. Based on experience with WUAs under Bank and other
projects in China and other countries, and adapted to Chinese conditions and policies, the
"Five WUA Principles" and their associated standards and criteria were developed during
PPRWRP Inception. The purpose was to "standardize" WUAs under the project to help
ensure WUA sustainability and uniformly high benefits. Key aspects of the Principles
and the associated standards were built into the project Grant Agreement (GA), mainly as
a specific requirement for reimbursement of costs for each project WUA in the form of
"WUA sub-grants," and as a result the Principles were consistently applied to all WUAs
financed under the project. This process was monitored, in near real-time and in terms of
both financial flows and WUA quality, under the M&E component. Many of these
Principles and standards had already been applied and tested in various Bank projects in
China, and several also reflected key MWR policy objectives for the water resources
sector. However, this was the first time they had all been built into the project legal
agreements, specified for universal application under the project, and incorporated in
detail into the M&E systems in order to standardize and verify all WUAs under a project.

1.1.15 The Five WUA Principles as developed and used under PPRWRP were:

   a) The WUA is the farmers' own organization. This means, inter alia, that: (a)
      the WUA is registered with the Civil Affairs Bureau (CAB) and is a legal entity;
      (b) WUA members are the farmer water users in the WUA service area; (c) WUA

                                            6
       members elect their own leaders who are members of the WUA; (d) WUA water
       and financial management and regulations are transparent and open to all
       members; and (e) the WUA is financially independent and has its own bank
       account. The purpose of the WUA is to operate and maintain the local irrigation
       distribution system on behalf of the farmers. The WUA has ownership of and
       responsibility for O&M of its irrigation water distribution facilities.

   b) The WUA jurisdiction is based upon the hydraulic boundaries of the water
      distribution system from a common source. The WUA service area is not
      based on or limited by administrative or village boundaries, although in some
      cases village boundaries may correspond to WUA hydraulic boundaries. There
      may be more than one village located in a WUA. Water user groups (WUGs) may
      be formed around channels within the WUA distribution system to facilitate water
      distribution within the WUA. In a gravity surface water system, the water source
      may be an outlet (or outlets) from a supply delivery canal or lateral which
      supplies the WUA on-farm water distribution channels which establish the WUA
      hydraulic unit area. The hydraulic boundary or jurisdiction of WUAs using
      groundwater may be based upon the common electrical power source serving a
      number of wells that form WUGs of their common users.

   c) Water supplied to the WUA is volumetrically measured, and water charges
      are based on the volume of measured water. The WUA has water
      measurement facilities to measure the amount of water received, and the WUA
      pays water charges based on the volume of water received (volumetric water
      charges). The WUA uses the measurement devices/facilities to calculate the
      volume of water received.

   d) The WUA collects water charges from its members and pays water charges
      directly to the water supplier. As a legal entity, the WUA is authorized by the
      government to collect water charges from its members, to pay the water charges
      directly to the water supplier, and to enter into a water supply contract. Water
      charges are based on the volume of water actually received by the WUA and
      distributed to its members, at a price agreed to in the water supply contract or as
      set by the government. This enhances the concept of participation and self-
      management of the WUA and leads to greater financial independence. The WUA
      does not pay water charges to the village or to the local government.

   e) The WUA has an adequate and reliable water supply and distribution
      system. Water supplied to the WUA is adequate and reliable, and the WUA has
      (or will have) adequate water distribution facilities to deliver water to its farmer
      members in a timely manner. To help ensure an adequate and reliable water
      supply, the WUA enters into a water supply contract with the water supplier
      which specifies the rights and responsibilities of the supplier and the WUA.

1.1.16 National Policy Support for WUA Development. In line with agreements
reached before the project, a requirement for a national policy statement on WUAs was

                                           7
also included in the GA. In November 2005, a national policy statement "Suggestions
on Strengthening Development of Farmer Water User Associations" (SHUINONG
[2005] Circular No. 502) was issued jointly by MWR, NDRC and MCA, and was
addressed to all provincial and regional WRBs nationwide. Following Circular No. 502,
SOCAD issued Circular N0. 307, which distributed Circular No. 502 to all concerned
Provincial and lower level CAD offices for implementation. As a result, Circular 502
now applies to almost all irrigation investment programs in China.

1.1.17 Circular No. 502 was a milestone for WUA development in China and was due in
large part to PPRWRP. For the first time, and at the national level, the importance of
WUAs was recognized and guidelines and basic principles for WUAs were clearly
defined, along with their nature and purpose, rights and obligations, establishment
procedures, operation, and capacity building, among others. Circular 502 generally
reflected the WUA principles and standards developed under PPRWRP, and helped
enable PPRWRP implementation to proceed smoothly and swiftly over the next four
years. Moreover, as a national policy statement, it had a very important role in
advancing, improving and standardizing WUA development in China, and it has created a
favorable enabling environment for future WUA development.

1.1.18 Rationale for Bank and DFID Involvement. The project supported a variety of
aspects of water sector reform included in the Bank's CAS, Bank-financed projects and
also various DFID projects. The Bank's CAS for China, dated January 22, 2003
supported water resource management reforms through, inter alia, building WUAs into
Bank-financed water resource and irrigation projects and strategic studies, improved
water pricing, participatory irrigation management, self-financing water supply
enterprises, and integrating water management reforms into irrigation rehabilitation.
Moreover, at the time PPRWRP was conceived, the Bank had experience with WUAs in
seven large irrigation and irrigated agricultural projects. This experience provided much
of the practical knowledge used for the design and implementation of PPRWRP.
Conversely, involvement in PPRWRP enabled the Bank to incorporate improved WUA
principles and methodology from PPRWRP directly into the design of two additional
Bank-supported projects. Although DFID had not directly funded a project involving
WUAs in China, it had substantial experience with water management reform issues
through its projects in the water resources sector (including a Water Sector Project and a
Water Law Review) and understood the need and value of WUAs. Furthermore, DFID
had a primary mandate to help the poor and women for which WUA development offered
an effective mechanism and a ready opportunity.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 Based on the Bank's IBTF, the purpose of the project was to promote and assist
management reform for small-scale rural irrigation water facilities: (a) through
establishment of farmer WUAs based on democratic participatory irrigation management
to help maximize benefits to poor farmers, women and disadvantaged groups; and (b)
through the World Bank's sector work program on WUAs. A major need or rationale for
the project was also to help bring order and standardization to ongoing approaches to

                                            8
WUAs through development, demonstration and dissemination of improved principles,
standards and methods for sustainable WUA development, and to promote a strong
enabling environment for improved, standardized WUA development in the future. This
reform was to be pro-poor, socially equitable, environmentally sustainable, and supported
and carried out in large, medium and small scale irrigation schemes.

1.2.2. Key indicators were: extension of improved WUAs in seven provinces in Phase 1
and in seven provinces in Phase 2 by the end of the project (12/31/2008); improvement of
security and equity of water supply for poor farmers and for women and disadvantaged
groups; establishment of WUAs that are participatory, socially equitable and
environmentally sustainable; and adoption of national policy on WUAs. Intermediate
indicators included the number of participatory demonstration and extension WUAs
established, training of women and the poor on WUAs, participation of women in WUAs,
benefits of participatory irrigation management under WUAs, benefits of WUAs, and
national and lower level policy documents issued and adopted which support improved,
participatory WUA development (see Annexes 2 and 3 for details).

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

1.3.1. PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1. Primary beneficiary groups were farmers, especially poor and female farmers;
other beneficiaries included staff from MWR, the China Irrigation and Drainage
Development Center (CIDDC) under MWR, IDs and WRBs at all levels in project
provinces and areas; staff from SOCAD in MOF and lower level CAD offices in project
provinces and areas; and national government officials and local government officials in
project provinces and areas. The project was divided into two phases: Phase 1 focused
more on the East where poverty was relatively less, and often in general areas previously
exposed to WUAs through Bank projects; Phase 2 moved more toward the western
poorer regions, often in areas with less or no prior experience with WUAs and Bank
projects. MWR selected provinces where they had very active irrigation programs and
where the PPRWRP WUAs could most readily build on previous Bank experience, and
provide a demonstration effect regionally and nationally. SOCAD selected its provinces
based on the location of its most active CAD programs where PPRWRP could provide
grass roots demonstrations and experience for provincial and county CAD offices. In
terms of area and regions benefitted, MWR tended to emphasize areas with greater
coverage of specific IDs and innovations such as WUA Federations, while SOCAD
aimed to spread improved WUAs to more CAD project areas to provide a broader
potential demonstration effect for the CAD program. Provinces selected by MWR and
SOCAD for Phases 1 and 2 were:




                                            9
 Agency                     Phase 1                                Phase 2
  MWR               Hunan, Hubei, Xinjiang                  Hunan, Hubei, Xinjiang
 SOCAD           Shandong, Hebei, Henan, Gansu         Jiangsu, Anhui, Sichuan, Xinjiang

1.4.2. SOCAD also used the lessons and experience of PPRWRP in the design and
implementation of the IAIL3 and related GEF Projects, which cover the provinces of
Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Anhui and Henan, (plus Ningxia under the GEF Project).
Both projects, for example, incorporated PPRWRP's principles, standards, methodology,
policy and training for WUAs, with the Five WUA Principles incorporated into the legal
agreements; their WUA M&E systems are also fully compatible with PPRWRP; and
PPRWRP has provided substantial training and technical assistance support on WUAs to
both projects. In addition, IAIL3 included provisions to add five additional
provinces/regions to help integrate WUA development into the ongoing provincial CAD
programs following PPRWRP standards (Ningxia, Inner Mongolia, Jinan, Chonqing, and
Yunnan were added). All of these provinces/regions, as well as those directly under
PPRWRP, have benefitted substantially from the demonstration effect of WUAs
implemented following PPRWRP principles, standards and methodology, including for
M&E.

1.5      Original Components

1.5.1. The project as originally designed and carried out had five primary components
(called Outputs under DFID standards), described and summarized as follows:

      a) Policy Support and Guidance - Statements, guidelines, regulations and research
         issued by the national, provincial and local levels to provide policy support for
         establishing participatory, equitable and sustainable WUAs, consistent with
         overall policy and reforms in water resource management and poverty reduction.

      b) Capacity Building and Training - Capacity building and training, to strengthen
         the capacity (i) of agencies to support WUAs (including monitoring and
         evaluation of WUAs and their operation), (ii) of farmers to manage WUAs, and
         (iii) of women and the poor to participate in WUAs and their management. This
         component included support for the development and production of WUA
         training materials, dissemination through media and other channels, and WUA
         training workshops, as well as specific training programs. Capacity building
         would also be carried out to develop and provide lessons that would help enable
         WUAs to be extended throughout China.

      c) WUA Development ­ Demonstration and extension WUAs would be established
         in project provinces. Demonstration WUAs would enable lessons to be learned
         and best practices to be identified, tested and implemented for WUA development
         based on participatory, equitable and sustainable management of small-scale rural
         water facilities. Extension WUAs would be used to spread and extend WUAs
         based on those lessons and practices. A new method for spreading improved

                                             10
         WUAs would be developed using demonstration WUAs, farmer-to-farmer
         training, and "clustered" WUAs. All WUAs under the project would be
         "standardized" (i.e., they would all be based on the same Five WUA Principles
         and standards) which were required under the legal agreement for the project.

    d) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) ­ Innovative, computerized systems for the
       project MIS and WUA-M&ES would be developed, established at all project
       counties/sites, used for both reporting and project management purposes during
       implementation, and used for evaluating the quality, impact and benefits of
       project WUAs during and after their establishment. Specialized training and
       technical support on the systems and in particular on M&E using "control groups"
       would be provided. Partly based on these systems, knowledge on PPRWRP
       WUA lessons and results would be generated and disseminated in China to help
       promote WUA development and understanding among key stakeholders.

    e) World Bank Sector Work Program on WUAs - Specialized technical
       assistance and support would be provided for WUA development in China, long-
       term WUA strategy development, WUA training, promotion of participation by
       women and the poor in WUAs, lesson learning, MIS and WUA-MES system
       design, livelihood studies, and promotion of institutional capacity building for
       future WUA development, WUA and M&E training assistance to other provinces
       and projects, dissemination of lessons learned, and other topics as needed.

1.5.2. Grant funding allocated and expended for each output/component under the
project was as follows:

                 Components/Outputs                       Plan*       Completed     % Completed
1. Consultant services                                    7917          8499            107%

   a)   Component 1: Policy and Guidelines                752            664            88%
   b) Component 2: Capacity Building and Training         326           994.6           305%
   c)   Component 3: Demonstration and Extension WUAs     1104          1474.3          135%
   d) Component 4: WUA Monitoring and Evaluation          1076          950.6           88%
   e) Inception, Mid-term Review, ICR and Management       581          1783.0          307%
    f) Unallocated Funds for MWR and SOCAD                1400           N/A            N/A
    g) Component 5: World Bank Sector Work Program on
                                                          2678          2632.0          98%
        WUAs
2. Goods, works, and other related to implementation      3933          4306.7          110%
   Total Grant Funds Used for Project                    11850         12805.7          108%
   World Bank Grant Administration Fee                     624          515.6            83%
   Total Grant                                           12474         13373.4          108%
* Plan amounts based on MWR and SOCAD Project Implementation Plans.
Note: Expenditures exceeded grant amount in dollars due to £/US$ exchange rate changes. Grant
was in pounds sterling. Total Grant amount includes Bank executed amount (TA-P088116-TAS
TF053278) and therefore exceeds total in Data Sheet.



                                               11
1.5.1. Outputs (a) to (d) were executed by CIDDC on behalf of MWR, and by SOCAD
on behalf of MOF. Output (e) was executed by the Bank in support of MWR and
SOCAD WUA activities under the project as well as in support of the Bank's work on
WUA development and related activities outside the project (e.g., training on WUAs and
M&E).

1.6    Revised Components

1.6.1. Components were not revised.

1.7    Other significant changes

1.7.1. No significant changes were made in the original project design, scope,
implementation arrangements, schedule or funding. At the Mid-term Review, changes in
the provinces covered between Phase 1 and 2 were made as originally planned. Also, the
GA closing date was extended by six months to June 30, 2009 to carry out additional
WUA dissemination activities, including an International South-South Conference on
WUAs using the Global Distance Learning Network; and the grant closing date was
extended by a year to December 31, 2009 to allow time for full completion of all project
and technical assistance activities as well as final reimbursement of project costs.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1. Preparation and Design. The project was prepared and designed by
DFID/Beijing following DFID procedures and requirements, with informal advice and
support from the Bank mainly on WUAs and institutional arrangements for project
management. A number of aspects of the preparation process for DFID grants were
substantially different from Bank processes, which required extra effort and flexibility.

2.1.2. Before the DFID preparation mission, and as a prerequisite for proceeding with
the project, DFID and the Bank held detailed discussions with MWR and SOCAD and
agreed on a number of key issues, including the following: MWR would issue a national
policy statement on WUAs (described above); the Director of MWR's Rural Water
Resources Department would be the official Director for the MWR part of the project; the
project Leading Group would be chaired by a Vice Minister from MWR; the project
would have two roughly equal separate parts for MWR and SOCAD; CIDDC under
MWR would be the specific agency for implementation of the MWR part; SOCAD under
MOF would be the specific implementing agency for the SOCAD part of the project; and
during implementation both MWR and SOCAD would at least match the project grant
funds they received (50% cost sharing). A number of these agreements were unusual for
a TA grant project but proved critical for effective implementation; e.g., issuing of the
WUA policy statement which was essential for project implementation, and making the
MWR Director for Rural Water Resources responsible for the MWR part which gave the


                                            12
project more access to MWR for WUA support at the policy level. These agreements
were a critical part of preparation and most were incorporated into the GA.

2.1.3 In late 2002, DFID fielded a short mission to prepare the project for approval by
DFID. Based on that mission and previous discussions, the basic outlines of the project
were agreed in principle by all parties, and Grant funding was approved by DFID in late
2003. Following DFID approval of the project grant, the Bank prepared and approved
the Initiating Brief for a Trust Fund (IBTF) which briefly described the project, its
objectives and the use of grant funds, and in March 2004, a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) was signed by DFID and the Bank.

2.1.4. As is common with TA projects, DFID included an Inception Period of six
months following signing of the MOU, during which time the main detailed preparation
for implementation was done by MWR and SOCAD, with expert TA support
(international and domestic) provided by the Bank. This could only start seriously after
the MOU was signed when the Bank had access to funding for TA support under the
grant. The TA missions provided substantial support for detailed project design on
specialized topics relating to WUAs ranging from water law to anthropology to M&E
system design, helped support preparation of the MWR and SOCAD PIPs which were
required for the GA, and enabled the project to incorporate detailed lessons and
experience from China as well as other countries into the PIPs. One of the most
important achievements during Inception was to develop and agree on the "Five WUA
Principles" and their corollaries which specified common standards and criteria to be
applied to all WUAs under the project. More importantly, Inception initiated the
strong cooperative partnership and understanding between MWR, SOCAD and the
Bank which was a major factor in the exceptional success and achievements of the
project. Nevertheless, it was also a difficult period because the grant had already been
approved by DFID, and whatever leverage Bank had was based almost entirely on its
preexisting relationships with MWR and SOCAD, not the project at hand.

2.1.5 At DFID's request, project design also included a co-terminus Project Coordinator
(PC) to be employed by the Bank under the grant. The main purpose of the position
originally was to provide liaison with and reporting to DFID, project financial
administration and reporting within the Bank, and management support to the Bank's
Task Manager for the project. However, in the case of PPRWRP, the PC played a much
more critical role due to the design of the project which was different from most DFID
grant projects and far different from Bank projects. In particular, PPRWRP had two
separate executing agencies which had to coordinate, work closely together across
ministerial boundaries, and undertake similar activities in the same manner (e.g., WUA
training, WUA development, M&E, etc.). PPRWRP also included a very large,
specialized TA program under Output 5 to help support MWR and SOCAD activities
with WUAs. Much of the PC's time and effort was spent providing coordination between
the two implementing agencies, and on organizing and providing direct TA support on a
variety of specialized topics ranging from M&E to the role of women in WUAs, as well
as on standard day-to-day project management functions. Fortunately, the PC chosen
had years of experience with WUAs, well established contacts at MWR and SOCAD

                                           13
and was a trained engineer. The PC contributed substantially to the success of the
project.

2.1.6 Project design fully utilized the lessons and experience from the many years of
Bank operations involving participatory WUAs in China (and also in other countries), as
well as DFID experience in the water sector in China. Risks were identified by DFID,
and mitigation measures were included under the project; none of these risks
materialized during implementation. Strong participatory processes designed during
Inception were a major element of project design (and success) due to the nature of the
project and proved to be exceptionally effective and adequate during implementation.

2.1.7 Quality at Entry. Quality at entry was highly satisfactory. The project was
exceptionally well prepared with a clear, common understanding of the project and its
objectives among all parties by the time the GA was signed. Although there was only
one short preparation mission by DFID in late 2002, that mission was supplemented by
three very intensive Bank preparation missions and other expert international and
domestic TA inputs during the Inception Period (see paras. 1.1.14. and 2.1.3.). These
strong TA inputs by specialized experts on WUAs under Output 5 during Inception
contributed substantially to the high quality of preparation and also to the efficient and
problem-free implementation of the project. It must be emphasized that this was possible
largely because the Bank had access to substantial funding for TA under the DFID grant;
it could not have been done under a Bank project with normal Bank preparation budgets.
In this case, involving both difficult institutional reform and lack of leverage, however, it
was essential, albeit difficult, and the results were beyond expectations.

2.2    Implementation

2.2.1 Implementation throughout the project period was remarkably efficient and
problem-free. This is largely due to high quality preparation during Inception,
extraordinary efforts by MWR and SOCAD project management, strong support by
government leaders at all levels, close coordination and partnership between MWR,
SOCAD and the PC, and consistent application of high quality, targeted TA support at
critical times. The MWR and SOCAD parts of the project were managed with
exceptional efficiency, effectiveness and commitment by their respective Central PMOs
and lower level PMOs. From the Bank side, regular combined supervision and TA
missions identified critical issues and encouraged MWR and SOCAD to take needed
actions, and provided critical expert TA inputs; the PC also played a key role by
identifying and dealing with many problems before they became serious. MWR and
SOCAD project management responded effectively and quickly to issues identified
during implementation by the Bank and the project MIS and WUA-MES. The project
was not changed or restructured at the mid-term review and was never rated at risk.

2.2.2 Several related aspects of the project also contributed strongly to implementation.
MWR and SOCAD and their lower levels developed a strong cooperative partnership
and provided mutual support during implementation; e.g., for some MWR WUAs, CAD
provided funding to upgrade the irrigation facilities; and at CAD WUAs, WRB and ID

                                             14
staff frequently provided direct technical support. There was also strong partnership
between DFID and the Bank - DFID helped to maintain the focus on women and the
poor, while the Bank concentrated on improving the quality of the WUAs and application
of the Five WUA Principles; both were necessary for success.

2.2.3 Several features included in the design to help meet project objectives also,
unexpectedly, contributed to implementation. The methodology for WUA development
which was built into the project ­ use of demonstration WUAs followed by extension
WUAs, farmer-to-farmer training based at demonstration WUAs, and clustering WUAs
for mutual support ­ proved exceptionally effective and made project implementation
operations more efficient and effective. The focus on women, although originally
intended mainly to benefit women, actually benefited implementation and the WUAs;
effective participation by women proved to be a great asset for the WUAs as the women
learned how to support WUA operations when the men migrated out for work, and
because of WUAs benefits the women often became very strong and active supporters of
the WUAs. The WUA-MES was designed to analyze the WUAs, but its use as a
management tool enabled early and rapid correction of problems with WUAs and helped
speed implementation. Finally, the ability of the Bank to bring substantial TA resources
rapidly to bare on various implementation problems, such as design and installation of the
special computerized systems for the MIS and the WUA-MES, development of a Gender
Strategy to mainstream participation by women in WUAs and establishment of special
training programs for women, meant that such specialized problems and issues were
resolved quickly and contributed to implementation. These types of activities had often
been resisted or weakly supported in previous Bank projects, but PPRWRP showed that
small investments in such activities had a very high pay-off for WUA implementation.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 The project had a very strong M&E system comprised of both the MIS and and
the WUA-MES, which were linked. Unlike most Bank-funded projects, M&E under
PPRWRP was a full project component and therefore received considerable direct
attention from the Central PMOs and from Bank supervision missions, as well substantial
specialized TA support under Output 5. Both the MIS and WUA-MES were
computerized, linked through the internet, and provided full and rapid information and
analysis on both project implementation progress and project impacts to PMOs at all
levels, including whether each WUA met the GA requirements for approval and
reimbursement for WUAs. Both the MIS and WUA-MES were established quickly and
efficiently, operational from the beginning of project implementation, and used
effectively by project management to support project implementation and make
adjustments as needed. The MIS was an integral part of project management, handling
procurement, financial management and grant reimbursements, as well as standard
progress monitoring and reporting, and was linked to the WUA-MES to provide certain
types of indicators and financial control; it also included provision for certification by
each local PMO chief that the WUAs established under the PMO met GA provisions.




                                           15
2.3.2 The WUA-MES was designed to identify the impacts and benefits of WUAs
quickly, including (for the first time with WUAs) comparison with "control group" areas
so that benefits of WUAs could be clearly identified. It also enabled identification of
problems with WUAs and WUA development which were then corrected "on the fly"
during implementation and resulted in higher quality, more sustainable WUAs on the
ground, and it provided a cross-check with the MIS on WUA standards as actually
implemented. The real-time monitoring of various parameters related to WUA quality
and sustainability resulted in more direct attention being paid to the WUAs during
implementation, and provided a ready source of data for supervision missions.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Although the grant project was strictly a TA project, it was rated as category "B"
due to environmental, dam safety and social safeguards which might be triggered during
implementation. During implementation, suitable measures were taken where necessary
to mitigate these safeguard issues, which were minimal because of the nature of the
project (TA); for example, improvement of WUA facilities (using domestic funds) was
done in the off-season to avoid crop losses, and WUA offices were generally provided in
existing buildings to avoid land acquisition. The project also complied fully with Bank
fiduciary requirements for financial management and procurement before and during
implementation. Bank TT members responsible for environment, social issues,
procurement and financial management participated in TA/supervision missions as
needed, and the MIS developed under the project provided an effective tool for
monitoring project procurement and financial management.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 PPRWRP has established, on a pilot basis, an efficient, comprehensive, national-
level system for promoting and supporting sustainable WUAs which provide large
economic, environmental and social benefits, especially to the poor and women. Based
on the results of PPRWRP, a follow-up operation would be highly desirable, justified,
beneficial and cost-effective. However, a follow-up phase of PPRWRP is not currently
planned. DFID is reducing its program in China, other donors have not indicated an
interest, and the government has not specified or funded plans and arrangements for
follow-up (although CIDDC is establishing a special `WUA Technical Services Center'
which would take over WUA support and other functions done by the MWR CPMO; and
SOCAD is considering to assign WUA support work to the division which currently hosts
the SOCAD CPMO and to include WUA indicators in its annual monitoring of CAD land
improvement projects). In addition, the Bank has arranged a small IDF grant to help
MWR adapt the WUA-MES for use in domestic irrigation projects, another small grant
on analysis of sustainable water pricing for WUAs (which is a critical issue for WUA
sustainability), and specialized TA to assist in drafting of an ID management reform
regulation to include WUAs. Other than the above, as things currently stand, funding for
support of comprehensive sustainable WUA development will end with PPRWRP,
despite its remarkable cost-effectiveness, success, achievements, potential and need.



                                           16
3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 Objectives, design and implementation were highly relevant to priorities and
strategies of GOC, DFID and the Bank, especially those related to increased benefits for
and participation by the poor, the disadvantaged and women, increased farmer
participation and improved rural governance (through democratic, participatory water
management), improved water saving and local level water management, increased crop
production and higher farm incomes, and better O&M of small-scale irrigation facilities.
The project through its design and implementation demonstrated on a large scale that
high quality, sustainable WUAs can consistently achieve these and other strategic
benefits and in particular can be an especially effective mechanism for alleviating poverty
and benefiting the poor and women, in both poor and relatively rich areas.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 Achievement its of the PDO is considered highly satisfactory development
objectives. It achieved its primary objective ­ to assist water management reform
through development of democratic, participatory WUAs - by establishing 497 improved
WUAs compared to 447 WUAs originally planned. Improved WUAs were established in
seven provinces in Phase 1 and seven Provinces in Phase 2; 10 provinces were covered in
total (MWR retained the same three provinces in Phases 1 and 2, SOCAD included four
different provinces in Phases 1 and 2, and one province was the same for both MWR and
SOCAD in Phase2). Security and equity of water supply was improved for women and
poor farmers and disadvantaged groups under all project WUAs, and all were
participatory, socially equitable and environmentally sustainable and established and
operated on the basis of democratic, "standardized" principles to meet requirements for
project WUAs as specified in the GA. These requirements included election of WUA
leaders by WUA members, open and transparent WUA management, independent WUA
financial management, collection of water charges by the WUAs, and payment by
volume for water purchased by the WUA. In support of this objective, the project
produced 1,044 national, provincial and county level policy documents, guidelines and
regulations (including national Circular No. 502); provided over 837,000 person-days of
training for farmers, women and the poor, WUA leaders, and officials; established 73
demonstration WUAs (compared to 67 planned) for farmer-to-famer training and 424
extension WUAs (compared to 380 planned) to demonstrate replication of improved
WUAs over wide areas; established 8 (unplanned) pilot WUA Federations (WUAFs) to
help shift participatory management reforms to higher levels in the IDs; and established
the MIS and WUA-MES at 101 PMO sites which enabled project management to ensure
that project WUAs met project requirements and to monitor their impacts. (See Annex 2
for details on project Outputs).

                                            17
3.2.2 Project WUAs provided large benefits, and in particular WUAs helped increase
benefits for the poor, women and disadvantaged groups. Overall, compared to control
groups, project WUAs generated in 2008 some 238,000 tons of incremental food
production, Y 770 million in incremental agricultural income and Y 1,846 million in
incremental total farm household income, 198 million m3 of water saving and Y17.8
million in water charge savings, and a 21% increase in crop productivity and a 35%
increase in water productivity; women and the poor shared in these benefits. Per capita
income was nearly 40% higher for WUA farm families compared to control groups, with
a somewhat higher percent income increase for poverty households. With these large
benefits, the percentage of people in poverty in the WUA areas fell from 18% to 11%,
and some 17,000 people were lifted out of poverty. Most of the above data are based on
"with and without" comparison of WUAs to control group areas and therefore take out
the effects of other factors such as the quality of irrigation facilities, prices and general
economic progress. (See Annex 3, Table 3-2 for details on the economic, social and
environmental benefits and impacts of WUAs.).

3.2.3 To help promote participation in the WUAs, the project provided over 222,000 and
73,000 days of special training to women and the poor, respectively, plus over 505,000
days of training to all WUA farmers (see Annex 2, Table 2-1). The special training for
women and poor farmers benefited them greatly as it enabled them to participate
effectively in project WUAs and share equitably in WUA benefits; it was especially
beneficial for women because they normally have a limited role outside the home. The
project's gender strategy was adopted early and implemented throughout the project
period, and particularly focused on developing specialized training for women on WUAs
and effective integration of gender considerations into WUA charters, regulations and
operations. With this support, participation by women in WUAs grew steadily, and in
2008 they accounted for 28 percent of WUA members and 22 percent of WUA leaders
(in the past, female participation and leadership in WUAs had usually been very limited).
Participation in WUAs also helped raise the awareness, status and confidence of women
in the project areas, and moreover, it greatly benefitted the WUAs themselves. As large
numbers of men migrated out for work, women were left to manage their farms and the
WUAs; with the special training, women gained the skills and confidence to take over
WUA operation and management in the absence of the men where necessary.

3.2.4 A further major benefit of project WUAs was to reduce or eliminate water
conflicts, which was due in part to the effective participatory processes followed during
WUA establishment and operation, and also to the project's strong pro-poor focus during
implementation. Reduced conflict benefitted all WUA farmers, but it especially helped
the women and poor farmers and disadvantaged groups who were normally were at a
severe disadvantage in water conflicts. In China, per capita land distribution is
approximately uniform within most regions/conditions, and poverty is often determined
by the availability of irrigation water. Local irrigation facilities were frequently
incomplete and in poor repair with weak and undefined management. Farmers frequently
had to literally "fight for water," and the weaker segments like women and the poor often
did not receive their share. This also resulted in high water waste and losses. WUAs

                                             18
brought order, equity and efficiency to rural water management, so that women and the
poor received their share of the water regardless of their ability to fight. Moreover, by
eliminating the need to fight for water, WUAs also reduced the amount of household
labor and "strength" needed to take and guard water. This enabled more farmers
(especially male) to out-migrate for work. The number of farmers going outside for work
more than doubled in the WUA areas. This outside work was a major source of additional
income for WUA households; for WUAs, total household income per capita (including
outside income) was 80% higher than agricultural household income per capita; for
control group areas, it was only about 63% higher. The WUAs also generated other
important benefits, such as reduced financial burden on farmers and management burden
on local governments, as well as large water savings.

3.2.5 At the national level, eight policy documents on WUAs were issued, against to
two originally planned, and a strong national policy statement on WUAs was issued in
November 2005 (see para. 1.1.17). In addition, over 1000 WUA policy documents,
guidelines and regulations were issued by provincial, county and local governments,
compared to about 700 planned. 41 policy studies on WUAs were completed, compared
to 30 planned. (See Annex 2, Table 2-1 for details on Outcomes.)

3.2.6 All project Outputs (Components) equaled or exceeded plan targets, many by
substantial amounts (see Annex 2, Table 2-1), which contributed substantially to the
project's development objectives. This is in part due to specific aspects of the project
itself - the exceptionally energetic and efficient implementation by the project PMOs,
highly positive response by farmers to WUAs, consistent and high quality TA support,
and flexible management and the M&E system that identified and dealt with problems
quickly. However, external factors related to funding also contributed - government
support through counterpart funding was almost 40% greater than originally planned,
exchange rate changes in effect increased the overall value of the grant by almost 8%,
and a moderate amount of additional funding was transferred (from the Bank's Output 5)
to the MWR part for critical activities toward the end of implementation. In addition,
planned Output targets agreed during preparation/Inception were probably conservative
because the project and many of its activities were completely new, relatively difficult,
and much more operational and unknown compared to a normal TA project which
usually focuses on research, studies, M&E, etc., not on field implementation.

3.3    Efficiency

3.3.1 Although PPRWRP was a TA project and did not originally require an economic
analysis for justification, rough calculations for the ICR comparing major economic
benefits from WUAs and the costs incurred for WUAs under the project were done at
completion. They indicate that returns to investments in improved, standardized WUAs
following the standards and procedures developed under PPRWRP are exceptionally
high. In 2008 (i.e., for only one year), the value of incremental food production and
water saved by improved, standardized WUAs under the project was Y470.5 million,
more than double the total project cost of Y203.6 million (grant plus counterpart funds)
and far in excess of the actual costs incurred for WUA establishment under the project of

                                           19
only Y11.2 million (See Table 3-1). These simplified calculations indicate that the
payback period for investment in WUAs, including all direct and indirect costs (and
including limited WUA infrastructure improvements), is less than six months, based on
the value of incremental production and water saving for WUAs in comparison to
"control group" areas with similar irrigation infrastructure conditions; removal of indirect
costs for WUAs (such as M&E) would yield even larger incremental benefits and a
shorter payback. This ignores the large benefit to farmer families of incremental off-farm
income made possible by labor saving with WUAs. Investment in improved,
standardized WUAs clearly yields very high returns, and returns that are substantially
higher than for a normal irrigation infrastructure project alone.

3.3.2 Benefits from WUAs also accrued to a large number of beneficiaries, especially
considering that the project was mainly for TA and was relatively small: some 292,000
households with a total population of over 1.3 million and covering a total area of
165,100 ha. Thus, total investments of about than Y1,200/ha provided incremental
benefits in 2008 alone of more than Y1,600/person, compared to control groups. These
benefits relative to costs seem to be implausibly high, but it should be noted that in all
project WUAs (and in comparable control group areas), the irrigation facilities were
reasonably adequate (or were made adequate) as required by the GA. With adequate
infrastructure in place, the potential for very high returns exists from relatively small
investments in good management and O&M, and inclusive, pro-poor project design. In
effect, these results are measuring the very high value of small investments in better
social capital - improved, standardized WUAs - combined with large sunk costs for
infrastructure (although substantial investments in WUA infrastructure are included in
total project costs).

3.3.3 The extent of direct economic, social and environmental benefits achieved from
WUAs also substantially exceeded expectations. This in part is due to the limited
understanding of WUA impacts prior to PPRWRP, along with very efficient and effective
project implementation performance. PPRWRP was the first case where detailed data on
the specific quality and benefits of WUAs alone were accurately measured and
quantified, and the first time that the project M&E system (WUA-MES) was designed
with "control group" areas to enable "with and without" analysis and separation of WUA
economic benefits from other factors affecting benefits, such as irrigation infrastructure
quality. Previous M&E on WUAs was more limited and usually designed for comparison
to baseline conditions; i.e., for "before and after" analysis; it was designed to measure the
impact of an overall investment project which included the WUAs and their benefits.


3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory
3.4.1 The project was highly relevant (the right project at the right time) for China's
current priorities and to Bank's CAS. It met or exceeded (sometimes substantially) its
original target outputs and fully attained its development objectives. The project
promoted local level reform of irrigation management over some 165,100 ha in 10

                                             20
provinces, and produced large benefits for farm households including the poor and
women.



3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The project was specifically designed as a "pro-poor" project and targeted
benefits for the poor and women. Project areas were selected to cover relatively poor
areas and were located in poverty regions based on national or provincial classifications.
During Phase 2, the project moved more to the West and focused more on absolutely
poor regions. Overall, some 17,400 people were lifted out of poverty under project
WUAs, and the poverty rate in WUA areas fell from 11% to 8%. This understates the
poverty impact because project WUAs provide assured water supply to all the weaker
segments of society, especially those disadvantaged farmers who previously could not
"fight" effectively for their water and therefore often suffered from lack of adequate
irrigation for their crops. Democratic water management under the WUAs provided the
poor and women with equal access to water regardless of their status, economic condition
or physical strength. For women, in particular, the project developed a practical gender
strategy which was followed throughout the project, trained WUA women on a large
scale and enabled them to participate in WUAs effectively. When the men were away
working, the WUAs provided direct benefits to women in terms of assured irrigation, and
in turn participation by women greatly benefitted the WUAs. The project's special
training for women was highly effective; it helped women improve their livelihoods
through the WUAs, and also enabled them to play and increasingly important role in
WUAs and WUA management. Empowerment of women through the WUAs under the
project is likely to have a long-term positive impact for women and how rural women and
rural communities perceive women's role and status, and consequently on women in the
family and community. Effective participation in democratic management of WUAs by
farmers, especially the poor and women, is also likely to impact positively on rural
governance and social development in the future.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 WUAs constitute a fundamental institutional change in irrigation and water
management in China, moving from total government and/or village controlled operation,
to participatory management and O&M by farmers based on democratic principles,
sometimes referred to in China as democratic water management. Policy support,
training and the WUA principles and standards under the project strengthen and promote
this critical institutional change, and the unambiguous success and large benefits
demonstrated by project WUAs strengthen the rationale and justification for spreading
improved WUAs. In addition, several innovations developed or supported under the
project have institutional impacts far beyond the project, including the national policy
statement on WUAs (Circular 502), the WUA-MES which is being adapted for use with
domestic irrigation investment programs, and the conversion of MWR's central PMO
                                           21
into a "WUA Technical Services Center" which will continue to support improved,
standardized WUA development based on the methodology and lessons of PPRWRP.



(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.3 Partly as a result of the project, support for WUAs at the highest levels of
government has been increasing steadily since 2005. Document No. 1 (the key internal
document setting GOC national policies and priorities each year) for 2010 included
specific guidance support for "farmer water user cooperative organizations" (WUAs).
Another major positive unintended outcome, noted above, was the training, extensive
participation and strong empowerment of women, and it is now much more accepted that
women can make significant contributions beyond the household and also beyond
WUAs. A further unintended outcome contributed strongly to successful project
implementation: the close partnership and cooperation between MWR and SOCAD on
WUAs as a result of the project, which benefitted both the project and the WUAs.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A beneficiary survey was done as part of a livelihoods study for the project (see annex 5).

4.     Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome

Overall Risk Rating: Moderate
4.1.1 Risks for Future Improved WUA Development. A number of possible risks for
the sustainability of project outcomes exist as related to future development of improved
WUAs, but overall these risks are rated moderate. The probability of withdrawal of
policy support for WUAs is unlikely given that the national policy statement on WUAs,
Circular 502, has been issued. A next step to continue the strengthening of the policy
environment would be the establishment of a specific legal basis for WUAs in national
legislation or regulations, and for SOCAD through a supporting circular for Circular 502
addressed to all CAD offices (not just project areas offices). Sustainability of
institutional support for WUA development in the future is also a risk, and MWR and
SOCAD are both taking some steps to deal with that risk. CIDDC has established a
special `WUA Technical Services Center' for WUA development support, and SOCAD
is considering to assign WUA support work to the division responsible for SOCAD's
CPMO and include WUA indicators in its annual CAD project monitoring. However, to
reduce this risk more broadly, the institutional responsibility for WUAs and their support
would need to be officially designated, and that adequate budget and staff for WUA
development support and training would need to be provided. A further risk is
inadequate capacity for future WUA development. This risk has been mitigated by the
large amount of WUA training and capacity building under the project and development
of training methodologies and materials which can be replicated. However, funding for
WUA training needs to be included in agency budgets to reduce this risk in the future.



                                            22
4.1.2 Risks Directly to WUAs. There are also risks related directly to WUAs, but
these are rated low. WUAs will need financial assistance to improve and repair irrigation
infrastructure in the future. However, WUA farmers were well trained under the project
and pay great attention to maintenance of their facilities, and in addition GOC investment
in small irrigation facilities through CAD, the MOF end-canal facilities subsidy program
and other programs has been growing strongly in recent years. For example, some Y 4.5
billion is planned for small-scale facilities in 2009 under the MOF program alone, and a
substantial share of that funding may be used to improve WUA infrastructure. In
addition, one of the key issues currently facing some WUAs is financial sustainability.
This risk has been mitigated under the project by the substantial amount training for
WUA leaders on WUA financial management and provision for WUAs to retain a part of
the water charges they collect to cover their own O&M costs. In addition, research now
underway by MWR/CIDDC, through a small grant provided by the Bank, will help
develop specific recommendations for water pricing reforms needed to support WUA
financial sustainability. It is recommended that MWR and SOCAD support and follow
up on the water pricing study recommendations for sustainable WUAs. External risks
such as long-term falling crop prices and world economic conditions could also affect
WUAs adversely, but both are considered low risks for WUAs.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1    Bank

Ensuring Quality at Entry                     Rating: Highly Satisfactory

5.1.1 Overall, the Bank helped assure that project design was appropriate and workable,
thorough preparation for implementation was carried out and the three agencies directly
involved in implementation (MWR, SOCAD and the Bank) all understand and agreed on
project objectives, outputs and implementation arrangements. The original DFID
preparation in 2002 was sufficient for DFID for approve of the project grant but not for
efficient implementation. The Bank team recognized this, and during Inception,
undertook three strong TA missions comprising international and local experts on WUAs,
water law, anthropology, women in rural development, poverty and social issues,
irrigation engineering, institutional development, water resources reform, and related
topics. In addition to assisting MWR and SOCAD with detailed project preparation,
these missions also served to ensure a common understanding of the project and develop
a close partnership between MWR, SOCAD and the Bank. This enabled high quality at
entry by the time the GA was signed and the Project Launch Workshop was held in
September 2004, and contributed greatly to smooth and efficient project implementation.

Quality of Supervision                        Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 Bank supervision and TA support (provided under Output (e) maintained a
concentration on the development impact of project WUAs, on the project's pro-poor and
gender focus and on various innovations like the WUA-MES and Five WUA Principles.
Regular supervision missions, usually combined with TA support missions, employed

                                           23
highly experienced domestic and international experts (see topics listed in (a) above) to
provide specialized TA on WUAs, identified and resolved key issues critical for project
performance and success, incorporated safeguard and fiduciary reviews, made
recommendations to appropriate leaders, and frequently included DFID participation.
Mission Aide Memoires were full and complete; supervision and TA missions and
experts provided useful, timely and detailed reports and recommendations which helped
guide project implementation and maintain its focus on improved WUAs and their pro-
poor and gender impacts; management letters to the Project Directors conveyed these
recommendations. The Bank's PC also coordinated effectively between MWR/CIDDC
and SOCAD, provided expert technical guidance on WUAs and related project topics,
and organized and managed most of the specialized TA inputs under Output 5 in support
of project outputs, especially with regard to M&E and gender; this was in addition to
standard internal Bank project management, progress reporting, supervision and DFID-
liaison requirements. However, stronger task team focus during Phase 2 on establishment
of permanent arrangements for comprehensive WUA support would likely have enhanced
future prospects for improved, sustainable WUA development. The project had only two
ISRs starting in 2008 because it was a Recipient Executed Trust Fund project which
formally entered the Bank's supervision portfolio in FY08.

Overall Bank Performance                      Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3 Strong Bank leadership and assistance during Inception lead to very high quality
at entry, and effective and timely Bank supervision and specialized TA support and
guidance during implementation contributed substantially to achievement of project
objectives and overall success. The Bank team also provided strong protection for
DFID's fiduciary interests as well as for Bank safeguard and fiduciary requirements.
However, they did not give sufficient attention to the opportunity for establishment of a
permanent support system for future development of improved WUAs, especially during
Phase 2 (this was not in the project's original PDO or activities).

5.2     Recipient

Government Performance                        Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 The government, staff, and leaders at all levels provided strong support for the
project, including especially policy support for WUAs and extra funding support for
improving WUA infrastructure. For example, Circular 502 was issued by three powerful
ministries, not MWR alone, and the government provided nearly 40% more counterpart
funding than originally planned. In addition, MOF's end-canal subsidy program for
small irrigation facilities specifically required WUAs in some cases, and GOC's internal
policy paper, Document 1, provided high level policy support for participatory irrigation
management.

Implementing Agencies Performance             Rating: Satisfactory



                                           24
5.2.2 The implementing agencies and their lower level offices were primarily
responsible for the exceptional results of the project. CIDDC under MWR and SOCAD
under MOF, the CPMOs and PPMOs, and the lower level PMOs all demonstrated an
extraordinary commitment to the project and to WUAs and worked hard and smart to
overachieve targets. They made outstanding efforts and were very innovative in
developing new approaches and solving problems that arose, and had consistent and
strong support from their leaders and ministries. In addition, both agencies had to
arrange counterpart funding to improve irrigation facilities for WUAs under the project;
this often involved close cooperation between MWR and SOCAD and was especially
difficult for the MWR line which had to find funding for WUA facilities from a variety of
sources, including CAD.


Overall Recipient Performance                Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.3 Exceptional commitment and hard work by the CPMOs and lower level project
units, along with consistent and strong support by government and leaders, enabled the
project to overcome problems rapidly, overachieve its challenging objectives, and
develop, establish and test a comprehensive system for support of improved, standardized
WUAs; and thus to show the way forward in China for future sustainable WUA
development and pro-poor irrigation management reform based on democratic water
management.

6.     Lessons Learned

6.1.1 PPRWRP developed and demonstrated an innovative and well-designed
methodology for development of improved WUAs, and it established and operated under
both MWR and SOCAD a pilot system to demonstrate comprehensive and effective
institutional support for improved WUA development. It also showed that properly
designed and implemented WUAs provide exceptionally high economic, social and
environmental benefits, and that with strong government support they can be rapidly
scaled-up over wide areas under diverse conditions. However, to achieve these high
benefits and be sustainable, WUAs must be "standardized" based on improved principles
and standards (e.g., the "Five WUA Principles" and other criteria). And for effective
implementation, WUA development support needs to include policy, training, capacity
building, demonstration WUAs, and M&E. Using these principles and standards, and
with strong and effective comprehensive support from the government at all levels,
WUAs can be mainstreamed into irrigation development for reform of local irrigation
management. Support for such WUA development should be built into budgets and
institutional arrangements for construction and improvement of irrigation projects and
should be based on the design of PPRWRP, which has been proven. Improved,
standardized WUAs provide a cost-effective means to upgrade irrigation performance
and increase returns to irrigation investments.

6.1.2 The project further showed that improved WUAs based on democratic water
management are pro-poor and provide an effective and low-costs means to benefit the
poor and women. Where irrigation is involved, incorporating improved, pro-poor WUA
                                           25
development into poverty alleviation and gender support programs can provide
substantial direct benefits to the poor and women and help empower them. PPRWRP has
demonstrated that women in particular can participate effectively in WUAs and make
major contributions to WUA operations. A key to the pro-poor impact of WUAs is
training which is especially designed for women and the poor, and WUA development
programs should include such special training and support. WUA training and
participation is especially important for women as it also raises their awareness and
confidence and improves their status in the community.

6.1.3 Compared to control groups, WUAs under the project saved substantial amounts
of water at a relatively low cost due mainly to volumetric water charges, reduced water
conflict, and generally better local water management which is reliable, flexible and
timely. Improved WUAs provided the right amount of water at the right time based on
farmer needs, increasing crop and water productivity. Water saving reduces water costs
for farmers and also benefits the environment and the country. Although not in the
project, WUAs can also assist in climate change adaptation through water saving, and can
also provide a ready channel for mobilizing farmers to adapt to climate change.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a)    Grantee/Implementing agencies

MWR/CIDDC

7.1.1 MWR/CIDDC considers that the ICR report fairly and objectively evaluated the
overall project achievements, outputs, impacts, the experiences and lessons learned, and
the performance of the organizations related to the project. We appreciate the guidance,
help and contributions made by the World Bank during implementation and believe that
the project provides key experiences, lessons and suggestions for other national and
World Bank projects.

SOCAD

7.1.2. SOCAD considers that the ICR accurately represents the overall project
achievements, outputs, impacts, and experiences and lessons learned during
implementation. We appreciate the guidance, help and contributions provided by the
World Bank during implementation and hope to continue to have help from World Bank
missions and experts in future projects. The key experiences, lessons learned and
suggestions from this project are valuable for implementation of future projects.

(b)    Cofinanciers/Donors

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders




                                           26
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
                          Table: 1-1 Project Costs/Expenditures by Component Unit:(US$'000)
                                                MWR                            SOCAD                         Total Project
      Project Component
                                      PIP      ICR       Completed   PIP      ICR       Completed   PIP        ICR       Completed
                                      Plan   Completed   /Plan (%)   Plan   Completed   /Plan (%)   Plan     Completed    /Plan(%)
 1. Consultant services
 (1) Component 1: Policy and
                                      441       372        84%       311      292.5       94%       752.0      664.5         88%
 Guidelines
 (2) Component 2: Capacity Building
                                      168       721        429%      158      273.6       173%      326.0      994.6         305%
 and Training
 (3) Component 3: Demonstration
                                      552       579        105%      552      895.3       162%      1104.0    1474.3         133%
 and Extension WUAs
 (4) Component 4: WUA Monitoring
                                      538       500        93%       538      450.5       84%       1076.0     950.6         88%
and Evaluation
 (5) Inception, Mid-term Review,
                                      299       855        286%      282      928.0       329%      581.0     1783.0         307%
ICR and Management
 (6) Unallocated Funds                700                            700                            1400.0      0.0           0.0
 (7) Component 5: World Bank
 Sector Work Program on WUAs
  Consultant Costs                                                                                  2123.0    2226.6         105%
  Expert Staff Costs/Salaries                                                                       555.0      457.5         82%
  Subtotal Bank Staff/Consultants                                                                    2678     2684.1         100%
 2. Goods                              536      708        132%       526     685.8       130%       1062      1393.9        131%
 3.Works                               137       0          0%        137     445.0       325%        275       445.0        162%
 4.Other                              1304     1541        118%      1295     927.8       72%        2597      2468.8         95%
   Subtotal                           4674     5275        113%      4498    4898.7       109%      11850     12857.8        108%
 World Bank Grant
                                                                                                     624       515.6         83%
 Administration Fee
  Total Project Grant Costs                                                                         12474     13373.4.       107%




                                                                     28
Notes: Total project grant costs include the Bank executed account (TA-P088116-TAS TF053278). Total project costs may not sum due to rounding
errors.




                                                                        28
                         Table 1-2: Project Costs and Financing
                                 Unit: (000' USD equivalent)
                                        Type of   Estimate at Actual at Percentage of
          Source of Funds             Cofinancing Approval Completion Appraisal
                                                                            (%)
China Free-standing Trust Fund
                                      Grant             12474.00      13373.4b       107%
Program ­ DFID Granta
Domestic Funds (including labor)      Counterpart        9727.49     13388.43c       137%
  Total Project                                         22201.49     26761.87        120%
a
  Includes Bank executed account (TA-P088116-TAS TF053278).
b
  Actual grant expenditures exceeded original grant in USD terms due to exchange rate changes.
c
  Domestic fund contributions at approval were originally based on approximately 50% cost
sharing for the MWR and SOCAD parts of the project (Outputs 1-4); due to strong government
support for the project and WUAs, actual government contributions during implementation were
some 40% higher than originally planned, which helped enable substantial overachievement of
project target outputs.




                                              29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
(Note: DFID refers to project Components as project Outputs.)

                               Table 2-1: PPRWRP Outputs/Outcomes
                                                                                                    ICR/
No.              Outcomes indicators                         Unit       Planned         ICR        Planned
                                                                                                     (%)
1     Number of Provinces in Phase I                         No.             7            7           100
2     Number of IDs in Phase I                               No.            23           23           100
3     Number of Provinces in Phase II                        No.             7            7           100
4     Number of IDs in Phase II                              No.            22           22           100
5     Total number of project Provinces                      No.            10           101          100
6     Total number of project IDs                            No.            41           412          100
      Output 1: Policy and guideline
      National policy documents issued during
7      project
                                                             No.             2            8           400
      Province policy documents issued during
8      project
                                                             No.            23           62           270
      County policy documents issued during
9      project
                                                             No.            52           90           173
10    WUA Guidelines issued                                  No.             7           32           457
11    WUA regulations issued                                 No.           626          852           136
12    WUA research topics/studies completed                  No.            30           41           137
1
   Because in MWR side, the Phase1 and phase 2 are total same three Provinces; Also for Phase 2, SOCAD selected
Xinjiang, same as MWR..
 2
   In Hunan and Hubei Provinces under MWR, the four IDs in Phase1 and Phase 2 are same.

                                                                                                    ICR/
No. Outcomes indicators                                      Unit       Planned         ICR        Planned
                                                                                                     (%)
      Output 2: Capacity building
13    Training for officials                               Person-
                                                                          3466          9024          260
                                                            days
14    Training for WUA leaders                             Person-
                                                                          7560         27818          368
                                                            days
15    Training for common farmers                          Person-
                                                                          51120       505097          988
                                                            days
16    Training for women                                   Person-
                                                                          50000       222131          444
                                                            days
17    Training for poor persons                            Person-
                                                                          1829         73333          4009
                                                            days
18    Total Number Trained                                 Person-
                                                                         113975       837403          734
                                                            days
19 Training materials                                        No.                      220610
20 WUA dissemination by media                              Times                       786
21 Domestic surveys                                        Times                       201
22 WUA workshops                                           Times                        250


                                                     30
     Output 3:WUA demonstration and
     extension
23   Demonstration WUAs                               No.          67        73          109
24   Extension WUAs                                   No.         380        424         112
25   WUA federations                                  No.                     8
     Output 4    WUA M&E
26   MIS installed                                   No. sites      101        101          100
27   MES installed                                   No. sites      101        101          100
28   Training for MIS and WUA-MES                    Person-
                                                                               4495
                                                       days
29   WUA-MES extension beyond PPRWRP                The WUA-MES is being extended to domestic
                                                    projects under the comprehensive water price
                                                    reform project of the end-canal system
                                                    domestic investment program, through
                                                    application of PPRWRP concepts and
                                                    methods for monitoring and evaluation,
                                                    monitoring indicators, also a simplified WUA
                                                    M&E system for use in all domestic projects.
     Output 5:WB TA for WUAs
30   Strong technical support for national and
                                                        (Y/N)                 Y
     local government policies for WUAs
31   TA support for establishment, application
                                                        (Y/N)                 Y
     and extension of the MIS and WUA-MES
32   Large scale Technical Support Missions
     carried out, combined with Supervision            (times)                14
     Missions
33   Arranged to prepare and publish national
     WUA training books, such as "Theory and
                                                        (Y/N)                 Y
     Practice of WUAs" and training DVDs
34   Organized and carried out large scale             (Person-
                                                                            1485
     training seminars and workshops for trainers       days)
35   Contracted Beijing Cultural Development
     Center to develop, carry out and support
                                                      (persons)              980
     training for women on how to participate in
     WUAs
36   Organized and provided specialized TA for
     WUA training for Jiangxi Province and the          (Y/N)                 Y
     IAIL3, to extend the impact of PPRWRP
37   Provided support for dissemination of
     PPRWRP lessons and experience through
     national MWR meetings in Yichang, Hubei
     Province and Xinjiang, through an
     International South-South Learning Event on
                                                        (Y/N)                 Y
     WUAs involving four Africa Countries and
     four Asia Countries (using GDLN), and
     through a large scale Food Safety and Water
     Saving Conference in Beijing in late October
     2009.
38   Promoted use of project demonstration

                                               31
     WUAs as training sites for national and
     international delegations from:
     (1) 23 countries and 1 area                 (Persons)   243
     (2) 31 domestic areas                       (Persons)   881
39   Provided TA support for development of
                                                  (Y/N)      Y
     project MIS and linkages with M&E system
40   Provided TA support to help mainstream
                                                  (Y/N)      Y
     WUA M&E system for domestic projects
41   Carried out WUA sustainable development
                                                  (No.)      14
     studies




                                            32
  Table 2-2: WUA Establishment Completed under PPRWRP (as of June 3009)
Agency/               Planned                       Completed            Completed/Planned (%)
Province     Demo.    Exte.     Sum     Demo.        Exte.      Sum    Demo.   Exte.     Sum
MWR             11      188      199      17           214       231    155       114      116
Hunan           6        69       75       6           74        80     100      107       107
Hubei           3        51       54       4           56        60     133      110       111
Xinjiang        2        68       70       7           84        91     350      124       130
SOCAD           56      192      248      56           210       266    100      109       107
  Hebei         3        31       34       3           31        34     100      100       100
 Henan          5        27       32       5           27        32     100      100       100
Shandong        8        26       34       8           28        36     100      108       106
 Gansu          6        30       36       6           45        51     100      150       141
 Jiangsu        10       20       30      10           20        30     100      100       100
 Anhui          12       10       22      12           11        23     100      110       104
 Sichuan        6        24       30       6           24        30     100      100       100
Xinjiang        6        24       30       6           24        30     100      100       100
  Total         67      380      447      73           424       497    109       112      111

               Table 2-3: Summary List of Output 5 Studies Activities
    1 WUA sustainability study in Hubei
    2 Gender Strategy Study for PPRWRP
          Study on Managing Water in China's Surface Water and Groundwater Communities
   3      and Analyzing the Success of World Bank WUAs and Prospects for Scaling up
          Training of Trainers Program by Beijing Cultural Development Center to Encourage
    4
          Women's Participation in WUA activities (Stage 1)
          Training of Trainers Program by Beijing Cultural Development Center to Encourage
    5
          Women's Participation in WAU Activities (Stage 2)
    6     Management Information System and Monitoring Evaluation System (Stage 1)
    7     Management Information System and Monitoring Evaluation System (Stage2)
    8     Workshop on Participatory Method Adaption in WUA Development
    9     Study on Impacts of the Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform Project
          Production of television-quality WUA Training DVDs for PPRWRP Dissemination and
  10
          TV Broadcasting
  11      Study on "Options for Permanent Systems Support of Long-term, Standardized WUAs "
  12      Study on "Livelihood, Gender and Other Impacts and Lessons of PPRWRP"
  13      National Water Users Participatory Investigation Report
  14      Study on water pricing for end canal systems




                                               33
£Table 2-4: Examples of Contributions under Output 5 (TA managed by the Bank)
   Key Outputs and Achievements               Contributions of Output 5 and the PC
WUA national policy was issued by Chinese       Working through several PPRWRP seminars, frequently
National Government (three ministries of        exchanged views on WUAs with officials from MWR and
NDRC, Ministry of Water Resources and           China Irrigation and Drainage Association, and communicated
Ministry of Civil Affairs),                     with the main WUA national policy drafter to make known
supported/encouraged by PPRWRP, and the         the major principles of good quality WUAs developed under
No.1 Documents of 2007 and 2008 by              the PPRWRP so they be could be adopted basically for WUA
Chinese Government specifically mentioned       National Policy (e.g., in Circular 502)
WUA development in China.
M&E system of PPRWRP was used                   Setting up a M&E working group covering the domestic
effectively during the project, and MWR         experts, CPMO working staff and Banks expert and PC,
plans to adapt it for use with domestic         communicating extensively and working intensively with
programs.                                       CPMOs and exert consultants to develop a practical M&E
                                                system which was successfully used in the project
MIS and M&E system framework of                 Initially, Sichuan Province PMO was rejecting the MIS and
PPRWRP was adopted by the Water Supply          M&E component in their project. PC was invited by DFID and
and Sanitation Project joint financed by the    the project's Bank team to represent PPRWRP and give a
World Bank and DFID.                            presentation on the MIS and M&E system developed under
                                                PPRWRP; Sichuan PMO subsequently agreed to include the
                                                MIS and M&E components in the project
PPRWRP training method was disseminated         The most successful WUA training in Jiangxi was designed
to Jiangxi Integrated Agriculture               and organized by the under Output 5 by the PC based on
Modernization project and five IAIL3            PPRWRP experience; this improved many of local
Participating Provinces (outside of PPRWRP      governments' and WUA chairmen's awareness and
project area).                                  understanding of WUAs, and a Training Evaluation Report
                                                shows the impacts on attitudes/thinking.
Two DVDs on WUA Development in China            PC organized the work related with the DVD making,
were made. One of them was used widely in       reviewing the script, organized four meetings for reviewing
10 provinces training.                          the DVD product in different stages.
Team of WUA trainers formed covering fields     Good candidates were identified by the PC, they were
related with WUA development, such as           provided with guidance as needed opportunities to work with
Policy, Gender Mainstreaming, Financial         WUAs in PPRWRP and other WUA project areas
Management, O&M, Farmer Participation,
Technical and Social Aspects, etc.
International South-South Learning Event on     Project dissemination materials to be used in the event were
WUAs (China-Africa, China-Asia) using the       prepared by PC, who also coordinated different parties in the
Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN)         event, organized logistics for event, and worked closely with
was held on May 26 and 27, 2009, a first in     MWR CPMO to prepare for and hold the event
the Bank.
To help mainstream participation by women       PC identified and selected an excellent rural women training
in WUAs, a large number of rural women in       agency (BCDC) and helped them design a series of training
the ten project provinces received WUA          courses for women in WUA development. This work has had
training as trainers both in field and in       excellent feedback by the PMOs for the 10 provinces.
Beijing, which greatly promoted both WUA
development and participation of women in
WUAs.
Supported AAA with NDRC on Rural Public         Based on part on PPRWRP experience and contacts, assisted
Services Delivery.                              the AAA and helped coordinate Bank work with the Social
                                                Development Department in NDRC

                                               34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The grant-funded project was purely a TA project, and therefore no economic
analysis was done during preparation or for the ICR. However, the project showed
clearly that improved, standardized WUAs established according to the standards,
principles and methods developed under PPRWRP produce large benefits far in excess of
their costs. For project WUAs compared to control groups, for 2008 alone, food
production increased by nearly 238,000 tons (valued at some Y 371,000,000, assuming a
weighted grain market value of Y 1.50 per kg), total agricultural income increased by Y
770 million, total household income increased by Y 1,846 million, water saving totaled
about 198 million m3 valued at about Y99,000,000 (assuming a value for water saved of
Y 0.50/ m3) and WUA farmers saved a total of Y 17.78 million in water charges (see
Table 3-2). These incremental benefits were derived from comparison with control
groups where infrastructure and other conditions were the same as for WUAs, so it is
clear that the benefits were due to the WUAs and their operation rather than the irrigation
infrastructure investments or other factors; control group areas were selected to be as
closely comparable to WUA areas as possible in all respects, including infrastructure.

2.       The value of the incremental grain production and water saved is much higher
compared to total costs of the project, and vastly higher than the actual direct
establishment costs for WUA establishment under the grant (see Table 3-1, below). In
addition, there were substantial and important non-quantitative social benefits, such as
lifting some 17,400 people out of poverty, raising the participation and status of rural
women, reducing rural conflict, and decreasing the financial burden on farmers and local
governments, as well as large environmental benefits from the large amount of water
saved, and increased crop and water productivity. Finally, a major benefit of the WUAs
to women and the farm families, especially the relatively poor and weak families, was the
reduction in the amount of labor required for irrigation (due to elimination of conflict and
"fighting" for water under WUA management). In many cases, this allowed the able
bodied labor (especially male) to migrate out for work, bringing in additional income for
the WUA farm households. The number of WUA farmers going outside to work was
more than eight times that of the control group area and more than double the baseline
number for the WUA area. WUAs appear to facilitate out-migration for work, which
provides a major additional income source for the WUA households, and is reflected in
the high incremental total farm income noted above. (Table 3-2, below, summarizes the
economic, social and environmental benefits of the project based on WUA-MES and MIS
data and comparison with both baseline and control group data in most cases.)

3.       The extent of direct economic benefits achieved from improved, standardized
WUAs under the project substantially exceeded expectations. Indeed, PPRWRP is the
first case where the specific benefits of WUAs alone could be accurately measured and
quantified, because the WUA-MES included "control group" areas for comparison to the
WUA areas This enabled the evaluation to use a "with and without" analysis and thus to
separate WUA benefits from other factors affecting benefits, such as infrastructure
quality and general economic progress. Previous WUA M&E had mainly used
comparisons based on baseline conditions in the project area; i.e., "before and after"

                                            35
analysis, from which it was not possible to separate the benefits of investments in WUAs
from investments in infrastructure.

4.       Although PPRWRP was designed as a TA project and did not require an
economic analysis for justification, rough calculations comparing major economic
benefits from WUAs and the costs incurred for WUAs under the project were made for
the ICR, and they indicate that returns to investments in improved, standardized WUAs
are exceptionally high. In 2008 (only one year and the last full year of the project), the
value of incremental food production and water savings generated by improved,
standardized WUAs under the project was Y470.5 million, more than double the total
project cost of Y203.6 million (grant plus counterpart funds, some of which was used to
make WUA facilities adequate) and far in excess of the actual costs incurred for WUA
establishment under the project of Y11.2 million (See Table 3-1). These simplified
calculations indicate that the payback period for investment in WUAs, including all direct
and indirect WUA costs of the project, is less than six months, using incremental
production in comparison to "control group" areas with similar irrigation infrastructure
and conditions; comparison to "baseline conditions" would yield even larger incremental
benefits and a shorter payback, as would removal of indirect costs for WUAs (such as
M&E). This investment in "social capital" for irrigation management yields very high
returns, and returns that are substantially higher than for a normal irrigation infrastructure
project alone, with the assumption that WUAs have adequate infrastructure. Based on
this finding, it is recommended that support and funding for improved, standardized
WUAs, and a PPRWRP-type support system for WUAs, should be included in all
irrigation infrastructure projects, as that would substantially increase the overall benefits
and returns from irrigation hardware investments.

Table 3-1: Summary Analysis of Economic Benefits and Costs for Improved WUAs
    Incremental Benefits from Project               Amount                 Benefit Value
                 WUAs                                                       Y millions
Grain production                         247,600 tons                 Y371.4 milliona
Water Saved                              198.1 MCM                     Y99.1 millionb
  Total Benefitsc                                                     Y470.5 million
  Total Project Costsd                                                Y203.6 millionc
  WUA Establishment Costsd                                            Y 11.2 million
a
  Incremental grain production valued at Y1.50/kg, the approximate the economic value
b
  Water saved valued at Y0.50/m3 (this is conservative; the Water Conservation Project ICR used
a value of Y2.00/m3 for saved water based on the opportunity cost for water under the South-
North Water Transfer Project).
c
   Benefits based on Annex 3, Table 3-2, below.
d
  Total project costs from Annex 1, Table 1-2, valued using average exchange rate for the project
period.




                                               36
        Table 3-2: Economic, Social and Environmental Benefits of PPRWRP
                                                                       ICR
                                                 Project   ICR
                                   Base- Control                    Compared
Benefit indicator       unit                      ICR Compared                 Note
                                    line Group                      to Control
                                                 (2008) to Baseline
                                                                      Group
WUA numbers                         No.            ----       ----        497          ----            ----
a. WUAs Irrigation
                                                           14.4     165.1
areas                            1000 ha        ----                              ----         ----
b. WUA households                  `000s        ----      36.0      292.0         ----         ----
c. WUA Population                  `000s        ----      133.9 1339.8            ----         ----
                               Reduced the burden on local governments to manage the project to ensure the
                             sustainable operation of irrigation facilities. Increased the quality of
                             maintenance and management of projects to reduce water waste, improve water
1.Economic benefits          use efficiency, and reduce water consumption. Reduced intermediate links in
                             water fee collection, increased the transparency of water fee charges to avoid
                             unreasonable charges for water users, mobilized the enthusiasm of water users,
                             and reduced the burden of farmers and increase their income.
a. Annual water fee per
                                 Yuan/mu          44.74       44.72      37.54          -7.2           -7.18
mu (1/15th ha)
b. Water fee reduced
per year in whole               1000yuan           ----       ----       ----       17830.8*1       17781.2*2
project
c. Crop productivity              Kg/mu            443        447         543          +100             +96
d. Agricultural income
                               Yuan/person         1861       2167       2742          +881            +575
per capita
                                                                          2
  Calculation Notes: *1Calculated by 1.A: -7.2 * a: WUA irrigation areas; * by 1.A:-7.18 * a: WUA irrigation areas.
                                                                                       ICR
                                                                           ICR
                                                  Base- Control Project             Compared
Benefit indicator                   unit                                Compared                                      Note
                                                   line Group    ICR                to Control
                                                                        to Baseline
                                                                                      Group
e. Increased crop
                           million kg      ----    ----      ----       247.6*3      237.7*4
production capacity
f. Total farm household
income (non-agri. plus Yuan/person         3019    3550      4928       +1909        +1378
agri.)
g. Increased
                          million Yuan     ----    ----      ----      1180.3*5      770.4*6
agricultural income
h. Increased total
                          million Yuan     ----    ----      ----      2557.6*7     1846.2*8
household income
i. Crop water use
                             Kg/m3         0.79    0.82      1.11        +0.32        +0.29
efficiency
                        WUA promotes the equitable water management. Attention to vulnerable
    2.Social benefits   groups to help women, children and the elderly benefit from the project.
                        Improved the quality and capability of farmers. Improved living and production
                        status of rural women and provided better, more secure irrigation to reduce their

                                                         37
                        labor intensity, and promoted the reform of local irrigation management system.
a. Water fee collection
                                   %             84       77         96        +12%         +19%
rate
b. Well-being rate of
WUAs Irrigation
                                   %             62       71        100        +38%         +29 %
systems (WUA farmer
"ownership" response)
c. Percentage of
                                   %             18     ----         11         -7%          ----
poverty persons
d. Per capita farm
income of poverty            Yuan/person        953      970       1382        +429          +412
households
e. Number of poverty
                                person         ----     ----       ----        17374         ----
population
f. Number of farmers
going outside and               person         91100 33973 211822             120722       177849
working off-farm
g. Percentage of
women in WUA                       %           ----     ----         22         ----         ----
executive committees
h. Percentage of
                                   %           ----     ----         28         ----         ----
women WUA members
3. Environmental          Save water, improve the local ecological environment, improve people's quality
benefits                  of life. After lining, channels, will not collapse, regular maintenance and
                          management of the channels, removal of weeds and mud, elimination or reduced
                          habitat for mosquitoes.
a. Annual water use per
                                m3/mu           667      568        488         -179          -80
mu
b. Annual water saving
                              million m3       ----     ----       ----       443.2*9      198.1*10
capacity
c. Percentage of water
                                   %             21       29         88         +67          +59
charge collection
 Calculation Notes: *3 Calculated by 1.C:100* a: WUA irrigation areas; *4 by 1.C:96* a: WUA
irrigation areas; *5 by 1.d :881* c: WUA Population; *6by by 1.d :575* c: WUA Population; *7by 1.f
1909* c: WUA Population; *8by 1.f 1378* c: WUA Population; *9by 3.a: 179* a: WUA irrigation
areas; *10by 3.a :80* a: WUA irrigation areas.
Summary: Through the formation of WUAs, the effective allocation and rational utilization of water
resources is achieved with reduced cost of irrigation, which provides significant economic, social and
ecological benefits. WUA management at the operating level is promoted in the project area. Irrigation
water is saved and farmers' income is increased. Irrigation service quality is improved which reduces
the irrigation cycle time and increases production. Farmers develop "ownership" responsibility and a
sense of democratic participation in water management. Water disputes are avoided, and the
vulnerable groups including women and the poor are protected and have equal water rights. Water fee
collection rate is greatly increased. "Ownership" and implementation of management responsibility is
promoted at the user level. The financial and management burden for local government is reduced.
Spread of new agricultural technology, new concepts (like climate change adaptation), new varieties
and market information is enhanced to promote universal understanding among farmers.
   Note: All data in Table 3-2 is based on WUA-MES data.



                                               38
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes
Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation

Supervision/ICR (Bank staff only)
Yi Dong                     Sr Financial Management Specia     EAPFM
Jingrong He                 Procurement Analyst                EAPPR
Shaojun Li                  Project Coordinator                EASCS
Patria Consuelo M. Morente Program Assistant                    MDW
Jinan Shi                   Senior Procurement Specialist      EAPPR
Yunqing Tian                Team Assistant                     EACCF
Xiuzhen Zhang               Program Assistant                  EACCF
Hongwei Zhao                Program Assistant                  EACSQ

(b) Staff Time and Cost (DFID staff time and budget was used for preparation)
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY05                                       N/A                          N/A
   FY06                                       N/A                          N/A
   FY07                                       N/A                          N/A
   FY08                                       N/A                          N/A
                           Total:
Supervision/ICR
   FY05                                       N/A                             9.46
   FY06                                          5                          55.17
   FY07                                         10                          61.72
   FY08                                          3                          14.46
   FY09                                          6                            7.50
                           Total:               24                         148.31




                                            39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

                     Summary of Beneficiary Survey and Results

Introduction

1.      Entrusted by the World Bank and DFID, a research team led by Professor Zhang
Lubiao from Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) conducted a study on
the Livelihoods Impact of the Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform Project (PPRWRP) (Project
No: P088166). This study focused on the impact of farmer Water User Associations
(WUAs) developed under the PPRWRP and included analysis of the attitudes of farmers
and stakeholders involved in the project. The Study utilized a number of approaches and
methodologies to analyze the impacts of PPRWRP WUAs, the major ones being the
Sustainable Livelihoods Framework, Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA), difference in
differences (DID), and econometric models. In early 2008, the research team collected
425 questionnaires from 78 WUAs in 6 irrigation districts (IDs) in Xinjiang, Hubei,
Hunan, Jiangsu and Hebei provinces, all located in PPRWRP project areas and included
in the 497 WUAs and 41 IDs covered under the project. This study found that the project
has positive impacts on economic and social conditions of beneficiary households, as
summarized below.

Findings

2.      Income. The survey found out that the per capita net income of WUA
households increased from 4,240 Yuan in 2004 to 6,175 Yuan in 2007, up 45.6%. The
project also has positive impacts on the income of the ethnic minority groups. In
Xinjiang, the per capita net income of WUA households increased from 4,020 Yuan in
2004 to 5,972 Yuan in 2007, up 49.6%. As a comparison, the per capita net income of
households in control groups in Xinjiang increased from 4,011 Yuan to 5,653 Yuan, up
40.9%. This study also uses the fixed effect model to test the effect of WUAs on farmer
income. The result is positive, which means that compared with control group
households, the formation of WUAs has contributed significantly to household income
growth. (Note that the sample used for the beneficiary survey is not same as 100%
sample results in the WUA-MES, as presented in Table 3-1).

3.      Household Time allocation. The improved irrigation order resulted in that
farmers spent less time in agricultural production between 2003 and 2007, and spent
more time on non-agricultural activities to diversify their income sources. Average time
spent on agricultural production per year dropped from 169 to 160 days. Average time
spent on irrigation dropped from 6.5 days to 5.3. Average time spent on animal
husbandry rose from 1.5 hours to 2 hours per day with increasing numbers of livestock.
At the same time, average time farmers spent on maintenance and building of irrigation
infrastructure increased from 3 days to 4 days. The study also shows the time waiting for
water reduced from 5.6 hours to 4.5 hours per irrigation. 85% of the respondents of
WUAs agreed that they now spend less time in waiting for and monitoring water. This is

                                           40
mainly because the WUA manages water delivery to each farmer efficiently, and also
because of better water supply due to better canal conditions, better water delivery
capacity, higher irrigation efficiency and better reliability of water delivery due to
"adequate" irrigation facilities as required under the project.

4.      Irrigation. The statistics from the survey were used to analyze WUAs
performance in water supply, infrastructure management, operation and maintenance.
The results show that WUAs can lead to increased farmer investments in channel
operation and maintenance (O&M), and provided a unique advantage in motivating
farmers to participate in irrigation management. The control groups had less farmer
investment and O&M effort in irrigation canals, which led to poor water delivery, and
without the famers own organization (the WUA) inhibited farmers' enthusiasm for
participation in irrigation. In terms of administration, decision making can become more
effectively with the existence of WUAs. In terms of channel maintenance, infrastructure
investment on water resources and channel maintenance can be more easily guaranteed
with the active engagement of the rural households through WUAs.

5.      Production. The study applies DID analysis in comparison of WUA households
and control group households by assessing the impact of WUAs on cotton output per mu.
The difference between two time periods (before and after WUA establishment) comes to
the conclusion that WUAs have had a significant impact on cotton yields, for example,
and the increase of cotton yield in WUA households is significantly higher than that of
the control households. The study also compares cotton output loss due to shortage of
water in 2003 and 2007. It shows that the cotton output loss of WUA farmer households
reduced from 5% to 0.

6.      Poverty. The statistics of the Low, Medium and High Income Groups and the
households as a whole were used for regression analysis with fixed effect models. The
result for all WUA households was positive and statistically significant, indicating the
establishment of farmer WUAs is positively correlated with household income. Model 1
shows the largest coefficient, indicating that the Low Income Group received the most
benefits. In other words, the launch of the WUAs played an especially important role in
reducing poverty in rural areas. Conflicts between different groups triggered by water
use have also been significantly reduced due to more equitable water use and more
orderly irrigation service, which protects the interests of vulnerable groups.

7.      Gender. The formation and operation of WUAs have exerted positive impacts on
women. It enhanced women's positions and promoted gender equality by ensuring the
legitimate rights and interests of women in participating in the management of the WUAs
and also in public affairs. According to the comments of women WUA leaders, after the
WUA was established, by taking part in training by the PMO, women leaders and other
women members of WUAs have expanded their perspectives about women's
participation in irrigation management and the rural community. Their working
competence, irrigation skills and agricultural production skills, and therefore their
income, have all been improved. Project participants have consciously disseminated
information about WUAs and promoted gender issue awareness in matters related to

                                           41
irrigation, agriculture and daily life. This has made women more active in village
governance, create more opportunities for women to contribute bout inside and outside
their WUAs.

8.      Participation and governance. By participating in WUAs, the concept of "self
management, independent operation, democratic policy-making and transparent
government administration" has prevailed. The improved political competence will
definitely boost the rural democratic culture, and also protect the water environment in
which WUA's have already played a role in improving and maintaining. For example, the
ID Management Bureau for the industrial and agricultural branch canals in the Shaoshan
Irrigation District system in Hunan Province for many years have not properly dealt with
water pollution. Even the township government could not deal with it. In recent years, a
livestock disease epidemic has been on the rise, and some residents have abandoned the
dead livestock and poultry near the branch canal and Bailu Island. This has polluted the
water in surrounding areas and has spread the epidemic. After the establishment of the
WUA under PPRWRP, the WUA mobilized women and children to be responsible for
the monitoring of pollution in different sections. The WUA set up a reward and penalty
system. The water quality then became better and the scenic beauty of Bailu Lake was
restored. This shows that WUAs can help to enhance the management of the rural water
environment, as well as manage water resources and supply.

Conclusions

9.      PPRWRP provided a development model that addressed both efficiency and
equality and generated remarkable economic returns. The formation of WUAs improved
water delivery efficiency, increased crop production and raised farmers' income,
particularly for the poor rural households. The objective of poverty reduction (compared
to control groups) was realized. The Project encouraged the participation of
disadvantaged groups, including women, promoted social equality, and provided
substantial benefits to disadvantaged groups, especially women who now play a
significant role in WUA and irrigation management. In general, the respondents in the
survey viewed PPRWRP and WUAs positively and supported a continuation of
PPRWRP to further support and improve WUAs and WUA development.




                                           42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                   43
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

MWR/CIDDC
7.1.1. We are very pleased to receive the draft ICR for Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform
Project (PPRWRP) prepared by ICR mission. We think the ICR report is fully in accord
with the actual situation. The ICR report has fairly and objectively evaluated the overall
project achievements, outputs, impacts as well as experiences and lessons learned during
the project implementation. And the ICR report evaluates the behavior of the
organizations related to the project justly. We have no objection to your ICR draft report.
We have highly appreciated the guidance, help and contribution made by the World Bank
task manager and mission staff during the implementation of PPRWRP. We believe that
the key experiences, lessons learned and suggestions from PPRWRP project are valuable
for implementation of other national or World Bank projects.

SOCAD
7.1.2. We are very pleased to receive the draft ICR for Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform
Project (DFID) project prepared by ICR mission. We think the ICR report is fully in
accord with the actual situation. The ICR report has fairly and objectively evaluated the
overall project achievements, outputs, impacts as well as experiences and lessons learned
during the project implementation. We have no objection to your ICR draft report. We
have highly appreciated the guidance, help and contribution made by the World Bank
task managers and mission staff during the implementation of DFID. We hope to
continue to get the help from the World Bank mission and experts for the future project
and we believe that the key experiences, lessons learned and suggestions from DFID
project are valuable for implementation of the future project.




                                            44
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
China: Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform Project

         1. Grant Agreement
         2. Supervision /ICR Missions' Aide Memoires
         3. The Bank GRM report for FY 2009
         4. The Evaluation of Gender Mainstreaming in Pro-poor Rural Water Reform
            Project

         5. Study Report on Livelihoods Impact of the Pro-Poor Rural Water Reform
            Project
         6. Policy Supporting Progress Report

         7. Working Process of Consultation on improvement suggestion on

            Irrigation District Management Regulation Modified Version
         8. 3 DVD films for training and domestic and global dissemination
         9. PPT/Materials for South-South Learning Series on Development of Farmer
            Water User Association through the Global Distance Learning Network
            (GDLN) (which was held on May 26-27, 2009 in Beijing, and included
            participation by nine countries of Asia (Afghanistan, Indonesia, Pakistan,
            Philippines, China) and Africa (Ethiopia, Kenya, Tanzania, and Sudan)

         10. Recommendation Report on Verification of Water Pricing at End Canal
             Level in Command Area of Farmer Water User Associations (WUAs)

         11. Borrower's ICR

         12. Borrower's Comments on Bank's ICR




                                         46
                                                                                80°E                           90°E                           100°E                           110°E                                120°E                            130°E


                                                                                                                                                       RUS SIAN
                                                                                                                                                       RUSSIAN              FEDERAT I
                                                                                                                                                                            F ED ERATI O N
                                                                                                                                                                            FEDERATI

                                                                        KAZAKHSTAN
                                                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Qiqihar

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Harbin

                                                                                                                                                      MONG OL IA
             40°
                N                                                                                                                                                                                                                Changchun
                                                                                            Urumqi
                                                    KYRGYZ REP.                                                                                                                                                                                     J I L I N

                        TAJI                                                                                                                                                                           OL
                            KIS                                                                                                                                                                     NG                                     Shenyang
                               TA    N                                                                                                                                                         I MO
                                                             Kashi                                                                                                                          NE                                                                               40°N
                                                                              X I N J I A N G                                                                                                                                              Anshan         DEM. PEOPLE'S
             AFGHANISTAN                                                            91       30                                                                                         Hohhot                                  LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIAON IN G                REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                    MWR SOCAD                                                                                      Baotou                BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tianjin           Dalian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIANJIN
                             This map was produced by the
                             Map Design Unit of The World                                                                                                                Yinchuan      Taiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shijiazhuang                                         REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yellow
                             Bank. The boundaries, colors,                                                                                                                                                HEBEI     Jinan                                        KOREA




                                                                                                                                                                    IA
                             denominations and any other                                                                                                                                                                                           Sea




                                                                                                                                                                 NINGX
                             information shown on this map do                                                                                    Xining                                     SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                            SHAN XI        34                       Qingdao
               PAKISTAN      not imply, on the part of The
                             World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                          Lanzhou                                                  SHANDONG
                                                                                                                      QINGHAI
                             on the legal status of any
                             territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Zhengzhou         36                                              JAPAN
             30°                                                                                                                                                                            Luoyang
                N            acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                            G A N S U           Xi'an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                            51            SHAANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                                                                                                                                      32                         Nanjing
                         0                  300 Kilometers
                                                                                    X I Z A N G                                                                                                                    Hefei                    Shanghai                         30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A NH UI               SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                             SICHUAN                                                                       23




                                                                                                                                                                                 G
                         0         100        200        300 Miles                                     Lhasa                                                                                   HUBEI            Wuhan                   Hangzhou




                                                                                                                                                                               IN
                                                                                                                                                             Chengdu                                                                                             East




                                                                                                                                                                              Q
                                                    INDIA                                                                                       30                                                  80




                                                                                                                                                                            NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZHEJ IAN G
                                                                     NEPAL                                                                                                                                                                                       China




                                                                                                                                                                           O
                                                                                                                                                                         CH
                                                      80°E                                                                                                               Chongqing                                    Nanchang                                    Sea

                                                                                              BHUTAN                                                                                    H UNA N            Changsha
                                                                     CHINA                                                                                                                     60               IANG XI
                                                                                                                                                                                                              J IAN GXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fuzhou
                                 PRO POOR RURAL WATER                                                                                                              UIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                 G UIZ HOU
                                                                                                                                                                          Guiyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FUJIAN

                                    REFORM PROJECT
                                                BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                             Kunming

                                                                                                                                                                                                      GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TAIWA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                         YUNNAN                           G U A N G X I
                         MWR PROJECT PROVINCES                                      MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                    Guangzhou

                                                                                                                                                                                   Nanning                     HONG KONG
                                                                                                                           MYANMAR




                         SOCAD PROJECT PROVINCES                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                        20°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                             MACAO
                         BOTH MWR AND SOCAD                                  20°N
                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      VIETNAM
                         PROJECT PROVINCE                                                                                                       LAO
                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                        Haikou
                                                                                                                                              PEOPLE'S
                   80    NUMBER OF WUAs
MARCH 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 37676
                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    DEM.                                HAINAN
                                                                                                                             THAILAND                                                                                                           PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                REP.
                                                                                     90°E                                            100°E                                                  110°E                                               120°E
