Report No. 23781
Report No: I070112 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/27/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: LITHUANIA       Project ID: P070112
Project: Lithuania Education Improvement Project          Task Team Leader: Ernesto
P. Cuadra
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 7, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m): 25.00
Bank Approval: May 23, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSHD     Sector: EP - Primary Education; ES - Secondary
Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project seeks to improve the quality of teaching and learning in basic
education (grades five to ten), and to make more efficient use of the
financial, human and physical resources allocated to education, by
supporting municipalities in their effort to optimize their school network
and by improving energy efficiency and space utilization in an initial
group of sixty-five targeted schools. To achieve these objectives the
project will: (i) improve the provision of teaching aids in basic
education based on the demands of the new curriculum; (ii) upgrade skills
and knowledge of teachers working basic education, to equip them with new
teaching skills that promote collaborative learning and critical thinking;
(iii) support the creation of communities of learners in basic education
to facilitate collaboration and continuous learning among teachers through
the use of information technology and the internet; (iv) support the
establishment of a center to monitor education quality by strengthening
MES capacity to conduct policy analysis, modernizing the current education
management information system and enhancing the current capacity of the
sector for conducting systematic assessment of students performance; (v)
modernize the current system of school certification and supervision by
introducing new tools and methods for school self evaluation, which will
be complemented by independent external audits; (vii) develop and
introduce at the municipal level a methodology for school consolidation,
merger and closure; and (viii) improve the energy efficiency as well as
the properties of building envelops, ventilation, lighting and hygiene in
sixty-five schools. To facilitate project implementation, the program will
support the establishment of a small project coordination unit (PCU)
responsible for providing support to MES in areas such as procurement,
financial management, project coordination, and communication and
information.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The main project goal is to improve educational achievement of students
attending basic education. To achieve this goal the project is organized
around two main objectives. The first objective is to enhance the quality
of teaching and learning and the second is to optimize the use of



education funds and resources. These objectives would be achieved through
five main project components, namely: (i) enhancement of teaching and
learning conditions in schools; (ii) modernizing the system of education
quality management; (iii) upgrading of schools facilities to improve
energy efficiency; (iv) strengthening the capacity of municipalities to
develop and implement school network optimization plans; and (v)
enhancement of MES capacity for project management and implementation
through the establishment of a Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU).
Component 1: Quality Learning
Objective: To enhance teaching and learning conditions in basic education
Sub-component 1.1: Teaching and Learning
The objective of this sub-component is to enhance teaching and learning
conditions in basic education. It will do so through 3 main interventions
aimed at (i) upgrading teaching skills and knowledge of teachers in basic
schools to promote the use of active learning strategies,
cooperation-based work methods and of alternative student assessment
methods, and ensure effective use of modern teaching aids; (ii) providing
teaching aids for basic education according to the demands of the new
curriculum; and (iii) supporting the creation of communities of learners
in schools through the use of different IT technologies and the internet.
The project will finance: (a) training of teachers; (b) development and
publication of teaching guides, booklets and didactic units aimed at
supporting teachers professional development; (c) provision of teaching
aids like sets of classroom libraries to stimulate reading for pleasure,
visual aids, puzzles and games, reference materials like dictionaries and
atlas, and science kits; (d) equipment for schools like overhead
projectors and copying machines; (e) technical assistance for development
of training programs and materials; (f) computers and software for schools
(g) shelves and tables for school libraries; and (h) resources for the
libraries.
The training of teachers will be focused on the school as an integral
unit, and it will be delivered in three phases. The first phase will have
a duration of two years and will provide training to approximately 250
teachers from 60 basic schools, that will selected based on the
willingness of the school to be involved in the experience, the potential
of some of the teachers to serve as trainers, the commitment of at least
two teachers to serve as change agents on the second and third phase, the
potential of the schools to achieve the main objectives of this activity,
i.e. develop new teaching and learning skills, establish small communities
of learning involving teachers as well as students. The second phase will
involve approximately 1,500 teachers from 220 schools and will use some of
the teachers trained in phase one as facilitators and trainers. The third
phase will follow the model established in phase two where trained
teachers will act as facilitators and trainers of the remaining teachers.
Logistically, the country will be divided in five regions with
approximately 12 schools per region. In each region the schools will be
divided in two groups of six with a total of 18 to 30 teachers each. In
other words, the entire phase one will be conducted in ten separate
subgroups or clusters (2 per region) that will follow identical teacher
-2 -



development initiatives. The actual teacher development initiative will be
carried out over a two year period where group of teachers will
participate on an integrated combination of intensive training workshops,
followed by collegial on-the-job learning activities and reflection days.
The training will be supported by the provision of new teaching and
learning aids that will support the utilization of the active learning
methods and alternative student assessment tools acquired during the
training.
It is expected that as a result of the training active learning
communities will be established in each school and a network of learning
communities will operate throughout the country. The creation of such
network would ensure sustainability in the development of a new teaching
and learning environment in basic schools.
In order to ensure that materials provided are in line with new curriculum
demands, special attention will be paid to the criteria for selecting
those materials. National and international curriculum experts and
teachers will work on the development of the initial set of materials to
be procured. In addition, teachers will be given the opportunity to
participate in the selection of materials to be procured at their schools,
given that they know best what is needed in their classrooms. To support
the effective use of these new materials, training programs will be
organized at the school level providing opportunities for teachers to
share their experiences and improve their practices. Their training will
be supported by the provision of training materials and didactic units
that will guide them in the use of the materials in their classroom
practices.
The development of new teaching and learning practices in the school will
be supported by having teachers, students and community engaged in joint
learning projects using the potential of the internet. The program will
focus first, on creating the right incentives and support programs for
schools that already have access to equipment and internet to make the
best possible use of it for improving student learning. Training programs
and school grants will be made available to support this. On the basis of
experience gained, the program will be gradually expanded to other schools
in the country.
Sub-component 1.2: Education Quality Management
The objective of this sub-component is to enhance the capacity of MES and
local education authorities to manage education with a constant focus on
quality improvements. In order to achieve this, the project will promote
increased use of empirical information in decision making at school,
municipal and national level and will conduct systematic observations of
how the use of information affect student learning and management
performance in school, municipalities and MES. It is expected that these
observations would help education policy makers and managers decide what
information is most useful and effective, and how to present information
to different stakeholders. To do this, the project will: (i) establish a
Center for Monitoring Education Quality (EQC) responsible for developing
the internal capacity of MES to conduct policy analysis. Special emphasis
will be put on strengthening the capacity of MES to generate information
that can be used by local education administrators and schools to prepare
school improvement action plans, and by policy-makers to formulate
- 3-



education policy and to monitor its implementation and impact; (ii) reform
the current system of school supervision/inspection; (iii) enhance the
current capacity to collect and disseminate education information and to
measure students' achievements; and (iv) upgrade the management skills and
knowledge of school principals.
The implementation of these activities will lead to the creation of a
harmonized national multi-tier system of education monitoring and quality
management which will safeguard the quality of education services. It will
be based on reliable statistics, continuous monitoring and evaluation of
student learning, permanent research, and a modern system of education
indicators developed based on international best practices. It will also
encompass a system of internal and external audit of educational
institutions that will be used to design targeted intervention and
training program for education managers aimed at improving the quality of
teaching and school management.
The information will be generated in three distinct processes. First,
statistics will be collected about schools and municipalities (physical
facilities, instructional materials, students, teachers, administrators,
costs). Second, student performance data will be collected as measured
through the assessment of student knowledge of the content of the
curriculum at 4th, 6th, 8th and 10th grades. Third, quantitative data on
the organizational culture and processes of individual schools would be
generated in order to monitor their performance and to assist them in the
preparation of school improvement plans. This information will be
distributed to stakeholders in order to get the community more involved in
the operation of the schools and to make schools more accountable to the
population that they serve.
The project will finance (a) equipment for the establishment of the EQC,
the modernization of the MES information system and updating the capacity
of the Student Assessment Center; (b) software; (c) training of MES staff
on policy analysis and evaluation, design of student assessment
instrument, collection, analysis and presentation of education statistics;
(d) training of MES, local and school personnel to increase their ability
to generate timely and quality information about system performance and
implementation of policies; (e) training of principals on school
management, and leadership and community management skills; (f) technical
assistance for the development of state of the art student assessment
instruments, standardization of education indicators to be compliant with
EU and OECD requirements, and for the establishment of a new system of
school accreditation, self-evaluation and inspection; (g) printing of
manuals and training materials; (h) data collection and generation of
information in time to inform decisions made in the normal cycle of the
school year; (i) dissemination of information; and (j) analysis of
information connecting policies and practices with outcomes through a
program of educational policy research
By the year 2005 the EQC will be operational with qualified staff and
appropriate equipment. It main responsibility will be to support MES
strategic planning, policy making and monitoring functions. The current
Education Management Information System (EMIS) and the Center for Student
Assessment will be modernized and strengthened to equip them not only to
collect relevant information to support policy analysis and decision
- 4 -



making but also to inform stakeholders of the state of the system.
Component 2: Resource utilization.
Objective: To optimize the utilization of education funds and resources.
Sub-component 2.1: Energy efficiency
The objective of this sub-component is to upgrade school facilities to
make school buildings more energy efficient, improve hygiene conditions,
and suitable to accommodate the learning needs of all students. The MES
plans to achieve this objective through three interventions: (i) improving
the efficiency of heating and ventilation systems, and overall building
envelope; (ii) improving hygiene conditions and provision of school
libraries; and (iii) providing access for the handicapped.
The project will finance: (a) civil works at municipal level; and (b)
training of municipal and school authorities in the utilization of the
refurbished facilities to maximize savings in energy consumption.
The MES envisages completing the renovation of sixty-five school buildings
by the year 2005. MES would set the standards for infrastructure
investments and design of educational spaces, in addition to the standards
for optimization of the network. Municipalities would select one school
each, based on a set of predefined criteria. The schools selected by the
Municipalities would benefit from a package of measures aimed at: (i)
energy cost reduction; (ii) improvement of physical conditions; (iii)
improvement of engineering structures and hygiene conditions; (iv)
provision of school library space; and (v) access for the handicapped.
Where required - interiors would be reconfigured in order to create better
conditions for learning and working in small groups, to set up
reading-rooms, to install utilities and equipment in laboratories, and to
create conditions for the disabled to study at the same school.
The selection of individual schools would be conducted in an open manner
and in accordance with agreed-upon local strategic goals. Schools selected
for renovation will have to meet a number of criteria in addition to being
in need of extensive renovations. These criteria include having a clearly
defined role in the newly developing network of schools and fitting into a
feasible local/regional development strategy. These concerns would be
incorporated into the Strategic Investment Profile that municipalities
will be required to present as part of project submission. MES will
subcontract the Housing and Urban Development Foundation for the
implementation of this sub-component under terms and conditions to be
defined by Appraisal.    Beneficiary schools would also benefit from
training in the operation of the refurbished facilities, along with
municipal authorities, in order to maximize savings in energy consumption.
Sub-component 2.2: Optimization of the School Network
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen MES capacity to
assist local governments implement a program for optimizing their school
network to ensure high quality education in a more cost-effective grouping
of schools. To achieve this objective the project will support MES
develop, together with local education authorities, a strategy and
methodology for a more efficient use of the current school network which
takes into account both the demographic changes of different local
- 5 -



communities in Lithuania as well as the needs of different communities and
the constraints imposed by the local (education) budget envelop. It is
expected that MES will provide technical support to local governments in
the preparation and implementation of their own plans of school closures
and amalgamations.
Key issues that would need to be addressed during project implementation
is how to secure consensus on criteria for a viable school with different
stakeholders. This will require wide consultation with social partners. A
cultural tradition in favor of village schools means that closure
proposals could be strongly opposed by local communities. Municipality
councilors and elected Mayors, therefore, need support in taking hard
decisions in the long-term interests of the wider community. Staff
reductions will inevitably lead to increased unemployment, often in remote
areas where few alternative jobs are available. The funding arrangements
for municipalities should be reviewed to remove disincentives for the
removal of surplus places, e.g. by basing a larger proportion of funding
in the state subsidy on pupil numbers rather than the number of classes.
Savings resulting from amalgamations and closures should be retained
within the municipality budget.
To achieve this objective the project will finance: (i) technical
assistance for the development and implementation of a methodology and
strategy for school network optimization; (ii) data collection and
surveys; (iii) workshops for stakeholders and community consultation; (iv)
training of MES and local education policy makers on how to implement the
methodology; (v) printing of manuals, training and information materials;
and (vi). purchase of software.
Component 3: Strengthen MES' capacity for Project Management
Objective: To provide support to project implementation and maintain
general public informed about reform program.
Sub-component 3.1: Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
The objective of this subcomponent is to establish a small unit to
provide: (i) coordination support to MES departments, various educational
institutions and municipal authorities implementing the project; and (ii)
implementation support in procurement, finance and administration
according to World Bank guidelines.
The PCU will support project implementation by ensuring that: (i) project
activities are well coordinated; (ii) necessary project inputs are
provided in a timely and cost-efficient manner; (iii) project resources
are appropriately managed in accordance with Bank requirements for
procurement and financial management; and (iv) effective project
monitoring and progress reporting is carried out.
To achieve this objective, the component will finance: (i) technical
assistance and training in project management, procurement, financial
management and disbursements, and utilization of key software programs;
(ii) salaries of PCU staff; (iii) essential office equipment and software;
and (iv) incremental operating costs of the PCU including the cost of
communications, interpretation and translations, banking fees,
- 6 -



transportation, office supplies, equipment maintenance, and audit fees.
The PCU would consist of five staff: director, coordinator, procurement
advisor, financial advisor and secretary/translator. The unit would
function within the MES, as an integral part of the MES, and it is
envisaged that it would complete its activities within six months of
project closing.
Sub-component 3.2: Public Information and Communication Campaign
The objective of this sub-component is to support project implementation
by ensuring systematic out-reach to various stakeholders to promote
project objectives. It will (i) inform the general public, the teaching
community and parents about the goals and progress of the reform; and (ii)
use this information and targeted messages to highlight the benefits and
build support among key beneficiary groups. This sub-component will
implement a campaign strategy over the life of the project by
strengthening the external relations and communication capability of the
MES, running programs and advertisements on TV, radio and in the
newspapers and hosting public events and seminars.
This component will finance; (i) technical assistance; (ii) workshops and
seminars; (iii) development, production and distribution of campaign
materials, information handouts and booklets; (iv) production and
broadcasting of TV and radio programs and advertisements; and (v) surveys,
focus groups and polls.
Components:
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
-7 -



D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No major environmental issues are associated with the project. Minor
environmental and safety impacts can be associated with the rehabilitation
of schools, replacement of heating and ventilation systems and insulations
material, refurbishing of hygienic facilities and in general with the
disposal of hazardous waste (asbestos and lead paint) and debris.
Potential impacts and proposed mitigation measures have been detailed in
the project Environmental Management Plan.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Project Implementation Unit will be responsible to hire and oversee
the required architects, engineers and contractors. They will also
supervised the work performed by the architectural/engineering firms to
ensure that they are applying adequate standards and are following the
agreed upon procedures, as well as, the agreed upon environmental plan.
The Borrower must ensure compliance with the requirements of the EMP (as
reflected in the legal agreement). The Project Implementation Unit will be
responsible for the implementation of the EMP and for ensuring that local
environmental standards and procedures are applied.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The methodology that will be designed to approach issues of school
consolidation will be based on a participatory approach with consultation
of key stakeholders - representatives of municipalities, teachers,
communities, private associations, NGOs, etc. This will mainly be done
through meetings and workshops. Furthermore, when discussing project
aspects with key stakeholders, the Environmental Management Plan
requirements will be disclosed.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
[   S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
- 8-



significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              1/30/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 2/11/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop 2/11/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Ernesto P. Cuadra        February 7, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   February 7, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:         James A. Socknat         February 7, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-9-



