                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR000091




        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-71280, JPN-26359)

                                      ON A

                            LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                EURO 29.0 MILLION

                            (US$25.39 MILLION LOAN)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA

                                     FOR AN

                    EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                  March 30, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective as of February 28, 2007)
                   Currency Unit = Lithuanian Litas
                       1.00 LTL = US$ 0.38
                       US$ 1.00 = LTL 2.62
                          Fiscal Year
                    January 1- December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DO      Development Objective
EDC     Education Development Center
EIP     Education Improvement Project
EMIS    Education Management Information System
ESF     European Structural Funds
ICT     Information Communication and Technology
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MES     Ministry of Education and Science
MIS     Management Information System
MTR     Mid Term Review
NGOs    Non-Governmental Organizations
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAG     Policy Analysis Group
PCU     Project Co-ordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PHRD    Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
SISs    School Information Systems




                Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

        Acting Country Director: Suman Mehra

               Sector Manager: Mamta Murthi

           Project Team Leader: Ana Maria Parchuc de Jeria Figueroa

             ICR Team Leader: Keiko Miwa

                                                     Lithuania
                                  Education Improvement Project
                       Implementation Completion and Results Report

                                                   CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 11
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 13
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 14
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 16
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 20
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 21
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 26
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 28
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 29
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Education Improvement
Country:                Lithuania             Project Name:
                                                                    Project
                                                                    IBRD-71280,JPN-
Project ID:             P070112               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    26359
ICR Date:               03/30/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    LITHUANIA
Original Total
                        USD 25.4M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 34.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education and Science
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/11/2001    Effectiveness:        09/26/2002        09/26/2002
Appraisal:             02/11/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/20/2002    Mid-term Review:      01/17/2005        01/17/2005
                                     Closing:              06/30/2006        09/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Highly Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
District heating and energy efficiency services                  67                69
General education sector                                         11                20
General public administration sector                             17                10
Telecommunications                                                5                 1


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Climate change                                                  Primary          Primary
Education for all                                               Primary          Primary
Education for the knowledge economy                             Primary          Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                  Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Suman Mehra                        Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:           Mamta Murthi                       Annette Dixon
                          Ana Maria Parchuc de Jeria
Project Team Leader:                                         Ernesto P. Cuadra
                          Figueroa
ICR Team Leader:          Keiko Miwa
ICR Primary Author:       Keiko Miwa



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aimed to improve student achievement in basic education (grades five to
ten), and to make a more efficient use of the financial, human and physical resources



                                               ii

allocated to education, by supporting municipalities in their effort to optimize their
school network and by improving energy efficiency and space utilization in an initial
group of sixty-two targeted schools.

  The project development outcome indicators were: the increase of percentage of
students attaining minimum standard in Lithuanian, Math, Science and Social Studies,
school completion rate, survival rates to grade 10, and net enrollment ratio in basic
schools.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO and indicators were not revised during the course of project implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Quality: Percentage of basic school 8th grade students attaining basic (and high)
                standards in Lithuanian, Math., Science and Social Studies.

Value           Lithuanian 57%                                                 The assessment in

quantitative or Math 52.8%                 10% point increase                  2005 shows

Qualitative)    Science 63.3%                                                  approximately 2-
                Social 59.5%                                                   4% increase
Date achieved 05/17/2002                   06/30/2002                          09/30/2006

Comments        Although the increase did not meet the target, the positive trend is an important

(incl. %        result given the increase in enrollment (which means more students from poorer

achievement)    families are in schools, and often lowers the average learning outcome in the
                short-term).
Indicator 2 :   Student flow: Net enrollment ratio in basic schools.
Value
quantitative or 88%                        95%                                 96%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                   06/30/2002                          05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The objective has been fully met.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Proportion of 18 year old population having acquired basic education (Grade 10).
Value
quantitative or 85%                        95%                                 89%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                   06/30/2002                          09/05/2006
Comments        The actual baseline (85%) was lower than what was estimated at the appraisal
(incl. %        stage (92%). The proportion of 18 years old population having acquired basic
achievement)    education increased by 4% at project completion.




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years
               6000 teachers trained in active teaching learning methods, student assessment
Indicator 1 :  and use of information and communication technology and new teaching aids by
               MTR.
Value
(quantitative  0                         6000 teachers                      9000 teachers
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                 06/30/2002                         05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       50% more than the target
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Communities of learners formed and functioning on a regular basis in at least one
               basic school per municipality.
Value
(quantitative  0                         45 schools                         200 schools
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                 06/30/2002                         05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       4.4 times more than the plan (440%)
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  School principals and school team in about 400 basic schools are able to plan and
               work together in peer-assisted teams with a view to improve their schools
Value
(quantitative  0                         400 schools                        403 schools
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                 06/30/2002                         09/05/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Slightly over 100% of the objective
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  School principals and school team in about 400 basic schools are able to plan and
               work together in peer-assessted teams with a view to improve their schools
Value
(quantitative  0                         400 schools                        403 schools
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                 06/30/2002                         09/05/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Slightly over 100% of the objective
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Participating schools have access to new teaching materials and the internet

Value                                                                       403 schools have

(quantitative  0                         Network of 280                     access to internet

or Qualitative)                          schools                            and new teaching
                                                                            materials



                                               iv

Date achieved 05/22/2002                  06/30/2003                         09/05/2006
Comments
(incl. %       143% of the original target
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Energy efficiency rehabilitation work completed in 62 schools.
Value
(quantitative  0                           62 schools                        62 schools
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                  06/30/2002                         05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       100% of the objective.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Savings on the cost for heating.
Value
(quantitative  0%                          30-40%                            36%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/22/2002                  06/30/2002                         05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Objective fully met.
achievement)

Indicator 8 :  Number of students in classroom is increased to 26 in cities and 16 in rural areas
               in pilot municipalities by 2006
Value
(quantitative  23.4 in cities             26 in cities                       24.7 in cities

or Qualitative)11.4 in rural areas        16 in rural areas                  17.7 in rural areas

Date achieved 05/22/2002                  06/30/2002                         09/05/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Objective almost met in cities, and fully met in rural areas.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :  Energy efficiency rehabilitation work completed in 62 schools.
Value
(quantitative  0                           62 schools                        62 schools
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2002                  06/30/2002                         05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Savings on the cost for heating.
Value
(quantitative  0%                          30-40%                            36%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/22/2002                  06/30/2002                         05/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                 Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                   IP            Disbursements
                                                              (USD millions)
  1   08/05/2002        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.16
  2   11/04/2002        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.46
  3   04/16/2003        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.48
  4   12/04/2003        Satisfactory        Satisfactory                6.30
  5   06/23/2004        Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory          11.40
  6   12/29/2004        Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory          18.71
  7   02/23/2005        Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory          19.62
  8   09/27/2005        Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory          21.34
  9   06/22/2006        Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory          31.83



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


Lithuania had made good progress in macroeconomic stabilization and the transition to a market economy
during 1990s. The consolidated fiscal deficit had fallen from 4.4 percent of GDP in 1996 to 1.7 percent in
1997 while the currency board-backed exchange rate has remained fixed since April 1994. In 1997,
accelerated privatization supported the growth of FDI to record levels, while most other structural reforms
proceeded apace. As a result, the GDP growth rate increased from 4.4 percent in 1995 to 7.3 percent in
1998. The main objective of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Lithuania 2000-2002 was to: (i)
improve macroeconomic and financial stability, (ii) support implementing the agenda of reforms and
investments needed for EU accession, and (iii) support reforms, institution building and investments in
health, education and social assistance.

The Government of Lithuania embarked on a bold educational reform to improve the relevance, quality
and cost-effectiveness of education at all levels. Its key principles and guidelines were reflected in the
1991 Education law and in the General Concept of Education in Lithuania 1992. The reform program
focused on changing the structure of schooling (extension of compulsory education), standardization of
examinations and assessments, decentralization of governance and finances ("money follow the student"
policy), and the optimization of the education infrastructure. This reform effort continued without
interruption through several changes of government and enjoyed support from major stakeholders. The
Guidelines of Education 2002-2012 was prepared to build upon the reform of the previous decade and to
set new strategic trends in the development of education, reflecting the national goals of democratization
of society, strengthening of market economy, and joining the European Union as well as the new
challenge of declining young population.

The Education Improvement Project (EIP) was directly addressing one of the objectives of the CAS and
the Government education reform strategy. The support of the Bank was critical because no other donor
was providing technical or financial resources to support a systemic education reform. In addition, the
Bank was able to bring relevant experiences in supporting education reform in the region and similar
countries such as Latvia.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project aimed to improve student achievement in basic education (grades five to ten), and to make a
more efficient use of the financial, human and physical resources allocated to education, by supporting
municipalities in their effort to optimize their school network and by improving energy efficiency and
space utilization in an initial group of sixty-two targeted schools.

Key performance indicators for the education sector, beyond the project scope, were: student
performance in Lithuanian schools in comparison with Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) norms, and percentage of grade 10 graduates pursuing upper secondary education
or workforce skill training. PDO indicators were: the increase of percentage of students attaining
minimum standard in Lithuanian, Math, Science and Social Studies, school completion rate/survival rates
to grade 10 (described as "proportion of 18 years old population having acquired basic education" in the
Ministry of Economic and Science's (MES') monitoring framework and the Bank's Implementation



                                                       1

Status and Results Reports (ISRs), and net enrollment ratio in basic schools).

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

PDO and key indicators were not revised during the course of project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised; briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured
in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The direct beneficiaries of the project were all students to be reached by specific project inputs such as
new learning materials in the classrooms and through improved practices from their teachers and
principals. More broadly, all students in general secondary education were to benefit indirectly from
more efficient and effective education services as a result of institutional strengthening and optimization
of resources to be supported through this project (represents about 599,294 students in grades 1-12 at the
time of project appraisal). In addition, teachers, principals and inspectors were to benefit from
participating in specific training activities aimed at improving their teaching and management
practices. Municipalities were also to benefit from increased management capacity developed through
participating in project activities and from savings generated from more efficient use of resources,
consolidation of school buildings and improved infrastructure conditions to reduce heating expenses.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Quality Learning

Objective: To enhance the quality of teaching and learning in basic schools

Subcomponent 1.1: Improvement of Teaching and Learning (US$5.1 million)1

This subcomponent was to enhance the quality of teaching and learning in basic education by developing
professional competencies of basic school teachers and by improving the learning conditions in basic
schools through: (i) upgrading teaching skills and knowledge of basic school teachers to promote the use
of active learning strategies, cooperation-based work methods and of alternative student assessment
methods, and ensure effective use of modern teaching aides; (ii) updating of teaching equipment and
provision of modern teaching aides to basic schools according to the demands of the new curriculum and
teaching practices; and (iii) supporting the creation of communities of learners involving teachers and
students in the schools through the use of different Information Communication and Technology (ICT)
and the internet.

Subcomponent 1.2: Education Quality Management (US$1.5 million)

This subcomponent was to enhance the capacity of MES and local education authorities to manage
education with a constant focus on quality improvements. The project aimed to: (i) establish a Policy
Analysis Group (PAG) within the Education Development Center (EDC) responsible for providing the
system's managers, central and local, with timely and accurate analysis to inform policy formulation,



1Includes both Government budget and IBRD financing.


                                                        2

implementation and evaluation; (ii) strengthen the education management information system (EMIS) of
the MES; (iii) reform the current system of school supervision; (iv) enhance the current capacity to
collect and disseminate education information and to measure students' achievements; and (v) upgrade
the management skills and knowledge of school principals.

Component 2: Resource Utilization

Objective: To optimize the utilization of education funds and resources.

Subcomponent 2.1: Energy efficiency (US$33.8 million)

This subcomponent was to upgrade school facilities to make school buildings more energy efficient,
improve hygiene conditions, and make them more suitable to accommodate the learning needs of all
students through: (i) improving the efficiency of heating and ventilation systems, and overall building
envelope; (ii) improving hygiene conditions and provisions of facilities for school libraries; and (iii)
providing access for the handicapped.

Subcomponent 2.2: Optimization of the School Network (US$4.3 million)

This subcomponent was to optimize the network of schools within municipalities while simultaneously
improving the quality of teaching and learning, maintaining current high levels of access to basic
education, and enhancing efficiency in utilization of educational resources. To achieve this, the Project
aimed to develop MES capacity to assist local governments implement a program for optimizing their
school network, organizing student transportation to ensure universal access to basic education, and
putting in place an accounting monitoring system to help them decide how to invest back the savings
obtained through energy efficiency and network optimization.

Component 3: Project Coordination Unit (PCU) (US$0.4 million)

This subcomponent was to support the operation of a small unit to provide: (i) coordination support to
MES departments, various educational institutions and municipal authorities implementing the project;
and (ii) implementation support in procurement, finance and administration in accordance with World
Bank guidelines.

1.6 Revised Components

There were no changes to components during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

There were no significant changes in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocation, etc.




                                                     3

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

This was the first education project that the Bank financed in Lithuania. While no formal analytical work
in the education sector was conducted by the Bank prior to this project, the key issues in the sector were
identified through the discussions with the Government at the identification stage. The Government
education strategy, as expressed in the Letter of Education Sector Development in Lithuania (April 11,
2002), spelled out the issues of the sector clearly. In addition, the experience of the Community Social
Services Development Project in Lithuania as well as the Education Project in Latvia provided useful
information for the energy efficiency component and the approaches to capacity building during project
preparation. A Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) grant was made
available to elaborate the design of the energy efficiency component and the design of the learning space
conducive for active teaching-learning method. In all, the project design had a good and relevant focus
(quality improvement and efficiency gain in basic education) and a balanced mix of investment (capacity
building, policy analysis, system development, materials, and infrastructure).

Lessons learned from other projects and research which were reflected in the project design are as
follows:

     Good teaching is the key to school success and the single most important cause of increased
        student learning. As part of the Project, a teacher training program was designed with the aim
        to change teachers' classroom practices and enable them to make effective use of learning
        materials.
     The Social Policy and Community Social Services Development Project in Lithuania raised the
        importance of the management information system (MIS) in the Ministry. The
        Project's success was dependent on a well-developed strategic plan, partnerships with
        municipalities to collect and analyze data, and clearly defined roles and responsibilities of all
        stakeholders. This lesson was well reflected in the design of Component 1.2 of the EIP.
     The experience in energy efficiency renovations of the school rehabilitation under the
        Housing Pilot Energy Efficiency Project contributed to the design of the guidelines to assist
        municipalities in the selection of schools and design of the Component activities. In addition, the
        work financed by the PHRD grant provided more details of the engineering and design of energy
        efficiency schools as well as the methodological guideline for energy audit.
     The political economy of education reform recognizes the value of involving education
        stakeholders at various stages of reform and to keep the public well informed. The Project
        design addressed this issue by specifically including a sub-component to help support such
        activities and by developing a participatory methodology to address the controversial issue of
        school consolidation.
     The institution building and ownership of the implementing agency is widely recognized as an
        essential ingredient to project success. Throughout Project preparation and implementation, this
        was repeatedly emphasized. The arrangement of PCU to assume only the Project specific
        function such as procurement and financial management was appropriate, and the effort to
        strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry to manage the Project was commendable.

Risks and their mitigations identified




                                                      4

Risks and their mitigations identified during the project preparation phase were as follows.

                         Risks                                          Mitigation Measures
 MES may not release staff to work in the project     To specify and clarify the tasks the component team
 as needed.                                           leaders and members are expected to perform and the
                                                      amount of time they are expected to spend for the
                                                      Project activities in their job descriptions.
 Stakeholders may not accept school network           To carry out continuous consultations with
 optimization plans.                                  stakeholders and establish a good communication
                                                      system with the broader public.
 Energy savings may not materialize as planned.       To carry out good quality school audits and technical
                                                      analysis of the energy efficiency component to
                                                      identify the most cost-effective interventions and to
                                                      ensure that control over associated costs have
                                                      been exercised and will be disseminated to
                                                      municipalities.
 Incentives may not be sufficiently strong to         To select carefully the initial group of teachers and
 motivate teachers trained in the initial phase to    involve head teachers from the beginning of the
 train teachers in other schools in subsequent        selection and training processes.
 phases. As a result of this, the cascade approach
 to training teachers may not achieve the expected
 results.
 Incentives may not be sufficient to gain full        To carry out extensive consultation with
 involvement of municipalities in external audits     municipalities during Project preparation, and
 and school network optimization.                     continue consultation during Project implementation
                                                      to reflect the views of municipalities and to increase
                                                      their commitment.

The mitigation measures that were identified during the project appraisal were appropriate and have been
implemented. Almost none of potential risks hindered Project implementation or the achievement of
Project objectives. The only area which remained a challenge was the incentive for municipalities to
carry out school network optimization.

Adequacy of participatory process and government commitment

The participatory process during Project preparation was commendable. The MES held extensive
consultations during Project preparation to solicit inputs from a wide range of stakeholders and ensure
that the Project would enjoy the necessary support within constituencies that are likely to be critical for
implementation. The MES discussed the Project with mayors, municipal and regional education
authorities at a number of conferences and workshops both in Vilnius and in the regions. Considerable
efforts were made to reach parents and school principals to explain the need for improvements and to
earn their commitment to changes proposed. The MES disseminated information on the program through
national, regional and specialized media, and also made it available on its website. In total, 25 events
were organized to promote the program and seek stakeholders contributions. In addition, Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs), members of Parliament and academia with a special interest in
education participated in Project preparation by providing regular input and comments on the design of
the program. The Project was one of the core topics discussed by the members of Lithuanian National
Education Forum at the Office of the President. The Ministry of Finance hosted a conference to present
the proposed program to the donor community.




                                                      5

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

The Project was not restructured; there were no major changes made to the design. The project was never
at risk.

The Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project was carried out in January 2004 with the objectives to (i)
review the overall Project progress towards achieving its development objective, (ii) discuss project
components and sub-components in detail in terms of progress, issues and actions to be taken in the
future to ensure project implementation as planned as well as the sustainability of its interventions; (iii)
review the project Key Performance Indicators; and (iv) review the loan status, the legal, procurement
and financial management aspects.

At the time of MTR, it was assessed that: (i) the Project was steadily advancing towards achieving its
development objectives; (ii) the EIP was deeply embedded in the ongoing process of institution building
and modernization of the Lithuanian education system; and (iii) the Project had been successful in
building capacities and partnerships with local and regional authorities with decentralized
approach, technical assistance received by Project teams had been timely and of good quality, and project
teams acquired new knowledge and skills that substantially enhanced the capacity of the education sector
to implement reforms.

The closing date of one sub-component activity of the Project, the Educational Information Management
System, was extended by three months from June 30, 2006 to September 30, 2006. This was due to the
delay caused by the contracted supplier.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The development of the M&E system and the use of the data for policy analysis was one of the important
component activities of the EIP. The monitoring system of the intermediate indicators was established
from the beginning of the project and functioned effectively throughout Project implementation. The
MES officials now use 64 indicators of educational quality although they did not use any indicator when
they started the Project. The practice of monitoring and the use of indicators in policy analysis have been
institutionalized in the MES, and this is most likely to continue.

Although it was not in the original Project design, municipalities and schools which participated in the
project expressed their interest and took the initiative to develop an education information management
system at their respective level. This was an unexpected but very positive development in the M&E
system which would contribute to institutionalizing the "culture" and practice of M&E at the various
levels of the education system.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Overall financial management rating for the project was satisfactory after completion of the action plan to



                                                       6

strengthen the project financial management system at the beginning of the Project. The Project financial
statements were subject to annual financial audits by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank who
issued unqualified audit opinions. Project Financial Monitoring Reports were submitted on a timely basis
and were acceptable. During Project implementation, financial management implementation reviews
issued satisfactory ratings. It should be noted that the financial specialist in the PCU played a significant
role in achieving and maintaining a very effective project financial management system.

The PCU and the Procurement Specialist had overall responsibility for conducting all procurement
procedures under the Project except for the energy efficient(?) school rehabilitation. Procurement of
works under the energy efficient(?) school rehabilitation sub-component was conducted by municipalities
under the supervision of the Central Project Management Agency; yet the PCU was closely coordinating
this activity as well. There were no major procurement issues under the Project and all procurement
actions were conducted in accordance with the provisions of the World Bank's Guidelines and the
Procurement Plan. All packages subject to prior review were submitted to the Bank for its review and
no-objection. Also, the procurement post-reviews conducted regularly during supervision missions did
not highlight any major problems with regard to contracts subject to post-review. The Procurement
Specialist based in the PCU was well qualified and experienced in conducting tenders and this ensured a
smooth implementation of all contracts and very good cooperation with the beneficiaries and the World
Bank team.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The component activities on "Quality Learning" have been institutionalized as part of the regular
activities of the MES, the PAG, the EDC, municipalities and schools. The use of 64 educational
indicators, as mentioned above, is a standard practice in the MES, and so is the production of the policy
briefs by the EDC. The design and methodology of the energy efficient schools have also
been incorporated as a standard procedure in the MES and municipalities. The operational budget of the
schools built and rehabilitated in the EIP is fully funded by the government and municipalities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project development objective (PDO) "to improve the educational achievements of students in basic
education grades (5-10) of participating schools throughout Lithuania" was relevant and timely to the
needs and context of the country and the education system. Lithuania was in the process of joining the
EU, and the quality of human capital (student learning achievement) was undoubtedly an important
element for the country's competitiveness. The objective is still relevant today. The Project also aimed to
"make more efficient use of the financial, human and physical resources allocated to education, by
supporting municipalities in their effort to optimize their school network and by improving energy
efficiency and space utilization in an initial group of 62 targeted schools." This objective was, and still
is, relevant and critical given the declining number of young population and increasing out migration of
youth in Lithuania.

However, the exact phrasing of the first component of the PDO and/or the target value of the PDO
indicator might have been unrealistic; it may be ambitious for a four-year project to aim to "improve
student achievement" while it is also expanding enrollment. Typically, the improvement in student


                                                       7

achievement and learning outcomes could be observed when the students go through the whole cycle of
sub-system (basic and/or secondary education), that is, at least after 6-10 years of consistent reform
efforts. In addition, when the system is expanding the enrollment, which often means students from
poorer families come and stay in schools, the overall or average student learning outcomes might go
down in the short term. This does not mean that the development objective was inappropriate or
irrelevant; it was and still is indeed a relevant objective to improve student achievement. It only suggests
that it was probably unrealistic for a 4-year project to aim for a quantifiable or substantial increase in
student learning outcomes.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

Students' achievement showed an increase of approximately 2-4 percentage point from 2003 to 2005.
The new data will be available in 2007. Other key performance indicators such as proportion of 18-year
olds who acquired basic education, and net enrollment ratio of basic education have increased, and
intermediate indicators are all showing positive results. Therefore, it is assessed that the project
development objective was satisfactorily met. The assessment of the PDOs and intermediate indicators is
discussed below in more detail.

1. To enhance the quality of teaching and learning in basic schools

The project has been successful in developing methodologies to enhance the quality of education through
the improvement of teacher training and of the learning conditions in 403 schools (as opposed to the
original target of 280 schools) throughout Lithuania. As discussed in Annex 2, the project achieved and
exceeded all the intermediate outcome indicators. The surveys, observations and assessment through
visits to some of the schools demonstrated the increased capacity of teachers, local consultants, and
school principals to take advantage of the new methods of teaching and learning, including more
collaborative learning, the use of new teaching-learning materials, ICT and internet. Both qualitative and
quantitative studies show that teachers actually use active teaching and learning methods, new
communication and cooperation methods both in the classroom and during extracurricular activities.
According to an evaluation survey, parents of students in participating schools noted that the way their
children learn changed with more project-based activities and team work during the recent years, and
their children discuss freely and enjoy learning. Valuable expertise in change management through a
bottom-up and consultative approach has been developed in the MES and has been utilized, not just at
school level, but also in working with municipalities to strengthen their capacities.

2. To enhance the capacity of MES and local education authorities to manage education with a constant
focus on quality improvements.

The capacity of the MES has been strengthened to provide timely system information and monitoring of
education outcomes, to produce a National Education Report on an annual basis, to measure pupils'
achievements and to carry out schools' performance audit through the establishment of the National
Audit Agency. This subcomponent, too, fully achieved the original objective. The EMIS was
established, the information on system performance is received on time, and used for decision making. It
also generated interest among municipalities and school representatives, leading to the establishment of
an EMIS at local/municipal level and the school level (School Information Systems: SISs). The
Education PAG was established at the EDC, and now produces policy briefs to inform the policy making
by the Ministry. A significant portion of survey respondents, both at the central and municipal levels,
answered that they used the information based on the research for their decision making. The results of



                                                        8

the research were discussed at the teachers' meetings, and the assessment of students' progress was given
more attention. It also enabled the school to self evaluate the quality of teaching and learning at
schools. The procedures and tools for internal and external performance audit of schools have been
developed, internal audit became compulsory in all secondary education institutions in September 2004,
and 73 internal audit trainers and 700 schools have been trained to carry out the audit. Four full-time
positions to coordinate audit activities were created in the EDC to enhance the sustainability of audit
activities beyond the EIP. In all, the subcomponent has created the culture and practice of
applied policy analysis and performance audit in the education sector in Lithuania.

3. To upgrade school facilities to make school buildings more energy efficient, improve hygiene
conditions and make them more suitable to accommodate the learning needs of all students.

The project has contributed to increased efficiency and better learning conditions by upgrading school
facilities in selected schools. According to the survey of 51 schools (out of total 62 schools which were
rehabilitated in the project), schools on average saved recurrent cost of approximately US$8,100 per year
after the renovation, which is more than the project target of 30 percent of the recurrent cost. Teaching
and learning in modernized buildings also improved the quality of teaching. Teachers increasingly used
multi-media, team-work and project-based teaching utilizing the modernized classroom.

4. To optimize the network of schools within municipalities while simultaneously improving the quality of
teaching, and learning, maintaining current high levels of access to basic education, and enhancing
efficiency in utilization of educational resources.

The MES has developed and disseminated methodology for school network optimization to all 60
municipalities, and general net optimization plans for 2004-2012 were prepared by 58 pilot municipalities
and approved by Municipality Councils. This methodological recommendations helped municipalities to
plan and start the implementation of school net reform, and also contributed to the improvement of the
quality of education since less number of students study in second shift, and saving made from salaries
are allocated for in-service training of teachers and purchasing of new teaching-learning materials. The
average student-teacher ratio has become more efficient at 24.7/1 in cities in 2006 from 23.4/1 in 2003,
and 17.7/1 in rural areas in 2006 from 11.4/1 in 2003.

Beyond each component's objectives, Lithuania benefited from additional outcomes; capacities have
been built at national and municipal levels to prepare proposals and evaluate bidding documents which
are valuable assets in the process of obtaining European Structural Funds (ESF).

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

While there is no economic rate of return analysis for the entire project, the analysis of the energy
efficiency component shows that the school rehabilitation with the energy efficient design achieved the
original target of 30 percent saving in recurrent cost per school. The Project has also reached more
numbers of schools with the project activities and likely to have sustained impact on these schools and
teachers (for example, 200 schools as opposed to 45 schools for community of learners, 403 schools
instead of 280 schools have internet access, and 9000 teachers instead of 6000 teachers received training
in active teaching-learning methods). In all, the project achieved the objective efficiently, and in some
cases, exceeded the objective without increasing the financial inputs.




                                                      9

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome is rated Satisfactory for the following reasons. First, the Project aimed to address
critical issues of quality of education in basic education (grades 5-10) and the efficiency of the education
system in the targeted schools. They were, and still are, relevant objectives for the education system and
economy in Lithuania. Second, the Project achieved most of the target for PDO indicators (except one on
the student learning outcome), and most of the intermediate indicators exceeded the targets. While the
indicator on the student learning outcome is a critical one, it is judged that the target originally set (10
percent point increase) was unreasonable given the short time frame of the project and the increased
enrollment (which indicates that the increased number of students from poorer families are enrolled,
which brings down the average learning outcomes in the short-term). Third, the Project achieved
objectives and covered more numbers of schools and teachers than originally planned without increasing
the financial inputs, and therefore, it is judged that the Project met the objective in an efficient manner.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The Project had a positive impact on poverty and gender by improving the teaching and learning
environment for all students, including students from poorer families and girls, in the targeted
schools. The Project also contributed to community development by carrying out various stakeholder
consultations and increasing the ownership of the Project by communities.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Institutional strengthening has been the hallmark of this Project. The officials of the MES,
municipalities, teachers and principals at schools have been the movers and shakers of the EIP, and the
champions of the reform. It is worth noting that stakeholders view this as a truly Lithuanian project and
very few of them made reference to the World Bank, which is a significant success indicator. Their
capacities to plan and implement activities, to work in teams, to encourage change and reform, to collect
and analyze data and use it for decision making, have been systematically strengthened through on-the-
job training (having to implement the project as part of their job) and targeted high-quality technical
assistance and well-designed training activities. The directors and staff of various departments of the
MES grew into a real team through working together and attending various workshops and training
activities. The PCU provided narrowly defined but critical support in procurement and financial
management, and the PCU acted effectively as a facilitator to strengthen the capacity of the MES.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

The Project generated a number of new initiatives and follow-on projects proposed by the MES and



                                                       10

affiliated institutes, and some of them were put forward for financing from the ESF. They include:

      The program for reconstruction of secondary and vocational schools, and supplying these schools
         with teaching aids (2006-2008)
      "Community of learners" project initiated by schools
      Continuation of the National Testing on Students' Achievements
      Training of young officers in municipalities
      Coordination of creation of SIS, encouragement and incentives for regional initiatives such as
         municipality EMIS
      Program for yellow buses 2006-2008, and yellow buses for students with special needs

It is notable that the directors and staff of MES are being asked to present their projects and also to work
as consultants in other European countries, which is a clear signal of the success of the Project and of
capacity building.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Please see Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible

The project is likely to have a longer-term impact on the education reform in Lithuania since it
strengthened institutional capacities at the MES, municipality and school levels. The MES was very
conscious about the importance of the sustainability of the project and how to institutionalize the
activities already initiated at the time of the MTR. The Project contributed to the continuing and
subsequent project and activities of the MES as mentioned in section 3.5 (c) above.

Key directors in the MES who have been involved in the Project from the preparation until completion
are likely to stay in their current or higher positions in the MES, and will continue to be the champions of
the reform.

As mentioned above, the experience of project preparation and implementation gained through EIP has
already contributed to subsequent MES's preparation and implementation of the project financed by the
ESF.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance at entry is rated Satisfactory since the Project was consistent with one of the
CAS' objectives, directly supported the government reform program, fostered the ownership during the
preparation process, and complied with the Bank's safeguard policies. The Bank team responded to the
Government's request for a team with the appropriate skills mix. The Project preparation period was
rather long (two and a half years from identification to Board approval), but the thorough preparation


                                                       11

process with extensive discussions and workshops contributed to fostering and strengthening the
ownership of the Government. The project was Environmental Category B, and the Environmental
Management Plan was prepared and became the part of the implementation agreements signed between
MES, Housing and Urban Development Foundation and municipalities.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. The response to the no objection
requests was usually timely, and the implementation reviews (which although at one point had more than
a year interval) provided detailed assessment of the Project progress and useful recommended actions.
The MTR was instrumental in taking stock of progress, and most of the recommendations made during
the MTR addressed the long-term sustainability issues and the overall education reform agenda. The
team remained fairly consistent with two task team leaders during the four-year implementation period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team paid close attention to, and facilitated cultivating the Project ownership of the MES. The
team provided technical advice in an effective and timely fashion, but it never did the work for the MES,
which is critical for capacity building. The quality of technical advice during project preparation and
implementation was high and appreciated by the client. The only area which the Bank team could have
advised or thought through is the choice of one particular PDO indicator for the project and its target
value  the student learning outcome. As discussed earlier, it is an important indicator for the education
sector, but it may have been unrealistic to use this for the project-specific PDO indicator or the value of
10 percent point increase was overly ambitious.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The leadership of the Ministry (i.e. the Minister) changed several times during the course of the
Project. However, the Ministers, who were political appointees, did not change the course of the ongoing
reform activities, and provided technical staff with the space and continuity to implement the
Project. The continuous commitment to educational reform at the highest level of Government facilitated
Project implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency             Performance

                   The performance of the MES and the PCU was exemplary. The directors and staff in

Ministry of        the departments in the MES responsible for each component as well as key personnel at

Education and      the municipality levels have remained in the same position from Project preparation

Science            through completion, contributing to continuity of the reform, strong ownership of the
                   Project and the strengthening of the MES. The PCU provided focused support - mainly
                   procurement and financial management - and facilitated coordination effectively. The



                                                      12

                    responsibility for Project implementation rested with the line departments of the
                    MES. The teamwork was excellent, which is difficult to quantify, but can be observed
                    clearly from the interaction of the staff and their comments.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Overall, the performance of the borrower was highly satisfactory. As repeatedly mentioned, the strong
ownership and capacity building of the MES was exemplary. In addition, although this was the very first
education project that Lithuania prepared and implemented with IBRD financing, the MES implemented
the Project in a professional and timely manner.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The importance of continuous Government ownership and capacity building at the local level. As
discussed in the previous sections, it is remarkable that most of the directors and key technical officials of
the MES continued to be involved in, and be the champion of, the Project from the preparation to
completion. This clearly contributed to the successful implementation of the Project, and the likely
continuation of the reform activities beyond the Project. The PCU had a well-defined and narrow scope
of responsibility mainly in procurement, financial management and coordination. The primary
responsibility for the implementation of each component rested with line departments of the MES. The
project activities and the regular work of the MES were very well integrated. In addition, the EIP placed
special emphasis on building the capacity of local teachers, principals and communities through local
consultants, and they have become the nucleus of reform activities not only for the EIP but also for
subsequent projects funded by the ESF.

Boosting the motivation of civil servants through appropriate recognition. The directors and key
staff of the departments of the MES not only stayed in their positions and but also showed strong
performance throughout the Project. The salaries of civil servants in Lithuania, as in many other
countries, are not as competitive as in the private sector. However, they stayed in their jobs and worked
hard mainly because their efforts and good performance were constantly recognized by their senior
management; they were made visible through the opportunities to represent Lithuania in various
international conferences, and competent staff and directors were selected to participate in training, study
tours, etc.

Establishing the institutional and legal arrangements for the implementation at the outset. This is a
common sense requirement for any project, but is not so easy to do in practice. In the EIP, the
Implementation Councils for each component were established by the Decree of State Secretary of the
MES at the beginning, and working groups of experts (5-13 persons depending upon the component)
were formed and confirmed by the Decree. In addition, the roles and responsibilities of departments and
individuals as well as reporting arrangements were made clear to all stakeholders from the outset. This
clarity of the institutional arrangement enhanced the smooth implementation.

The importance of public consultation. Extensive public consultation activities were carried out during
Project preparation and implementation, which contributed to strengthening of the ownership of the
Project by stakeholders and effective implementation. Those municipalities which placed emphasis on



                                                       13

public debate and consultation seems to have done better compared to municipalities which did not.

High quality and well targeted technical assistance. The quality of technical assistance has been good
and their work has been well targeted to develop the capacity of the MES. Instead of having foreign
consultants staying in Lithuania for an extended period of time, the MES organized consultants to make
focused visits to Lithuania to carry out workshops and training. Between their visits, the MES staff
worked on their own and steadily built their own capacities. The consultants understood that the terms of
reference of their TA was to build capacity, and not to do/replace the work of the Ministry.

Selection of a realistic PDO indicator and its target. Percentage of students attaining minimum
standards in Lithuanian, Math, Science and Social Studies was chosen as one of the PDO indicators.
While this is indeed a critical indicator to assess the performance of the education system in the long-
term, it might have been unrealistic to expect a 10 percentage point increase in four years. As discussed
earlier, it usually takes a student cohort to go through the whole cycle of the reformed system to attain a
tangible improvement in learning outcomes.

The benefit of thorough project preparation. It took 2.5 years from Project identification to Board
approval (although the real preparation time was about one year) and the budget was generous (the
Bank budget was about US$380,000 and the PHRD grant was US$198,524). This, however, seems to
have paid off; the project implementation was smooth, and did not require much hand-holding from the
Bank during implementation (the Bank budget for implementation was about US$300,000).

The balance between physical investment and institutional capacity building. During the initial
stage of Project preparation, the Government was keen mainly on the physical investment component of
the Project. It is interesting to note, however, that during the school visits and the Project
completion workshops, most of the stakeholders in municipalities and schools enthusiastically talked
about the quality and policy component of the Project and only a few mentioned the school
rehabilitation. The component of the energy efficient school rehabilitation was the largest in terms of the
financial allocation, and was successfully implemented. In terms of the ownership, the quality
component (which had a much smaller share of financing) seems to have a bigger impact. This
highlights the importance of striking a good balance between the physical investment (which usually
attracts the politician's interest) and the institutional and technical capacity building.

The Bank's value added. The Government appreciated the Bank's technical advice during Project
preparation and implementation more so than its financial resources. While the need to borrow for
Lithuania seems very little, it would be desirable if the Bank can develop an appropriate instrument or
arrangement for continued engagement in policy dialogue beyond this Project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Borrower had no comment on the draft ICR.


(b) Cofinanciers

There was no cofinancier for the project.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders



                                                        14

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)


          Components                 Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
                                        (US$ millions)            (US$ millions)           Appraisal
QUALITY LEARNING                                      5.95                      8.29                139%
RESOURCE UTILIZATION                                 35.44                     55.97                158%
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                    0.40                       0.69               173%
            Total Baseline Cost                     41.79                      64.95                 155%
Physical Contingencies                                2.07
Price Contingencies                                   1.30
            Total Project Costs                     45.16
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00                      0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.25                      0.25                100%
     Total Financing Required                       45.41                      65.20                 144%



Project Cost by Component (in Euro Million equivalent)
The loan agreement was signed in Euro, and therefore the table below shows a more accurate picture when
comparing the cost at appraisal and actual.


          Components                 Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
                                       (Euro millions)            (Euro millions)          Appraisal
QUALITY LEARNING                                      6.79                       6.41                94%
RESOURCE UTILIZATION                                40.47                       43.27               107%
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                   0.46                        0.53               115%
            Total Baseline Cost                     47.73                       50.21                105%
Physical Contingencies                               2.36
Price Contingencies                                  1.48
            Total Project Costs                     51.57
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00                        0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.29                        0.29               100%
     Total Financing Required                       51.85                      50.50                  97%




                                                  16

(b) Financing (In Euro)


                                           Appraisal       Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds        Type of                                     Percentage of
                               financing Estimate (Euro   Estimate (Euro
                                            millions)        millions)       Appraisal

  Borrower                                          13.29             14.85         112%
  IBRD                                              29.00             27.91          96%
  Local Government. (Province,
District, City) of Borrowing                         9.57              8.77          86%
Country




                                         17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Quality Learning

Subcomponent 1.1: Improvement of Teaching and Learning

This subcomponent fully met the original output target.

                                                                  Target                   Actual
 The number of teachers who are trained in active             6,000 teachers           9,000 teachers
 teaching-learning methods, student assessment and
 the use of ICT
 The number of schools whose principals and school             400 schools              403 schools
 teams are able to work together in peer-assisted
 teams to improve their schools
 The number of schools which have access to the                280 schools              403 schools
 internet, virtual learning environment software and
 new teaching-learning materials
 The number of community of learners which are                  45 schools              200 schools
 functioning to facilitate application of active
 teaching-learning method and learning in teams, and
 to encourage continuous professional development

Subcomponent 1.2: Education Quality Management

This subcomponent, too, fully achieved the original objective. The EMIS was established, and the
information on system performance is received on time and used for decision-making. It also generated
interested among municipalities and school representatives, leading to the establishment of an EMIS at
local/municipal level and the school level (School Information Systems: SISs). The Education PAG was
established at the EDC, and the staff of the Center and other departments of the Ministry went through
rigorous training by international consultants on policy analysis. The group learned how to prepare
education policy briefs and prepared five of them during Project implementation. They were also able to
train education administrators at the county and municipality level on policy analysis. Numerous reports
on various critical education issues have been prepared and informed decision making. For example, a
significant portion of survey respondents answered that they used the information based on
research/assessment for their decision making. The results of the research were discussed at the teachers'
meetings, and the assessment of students' progress was given more attention. The assessments of student
achievement in math, writing, natural and social sciences for Grades 4, 6, 8, 10 are implemented every
two years, the database was created, and the recommendations on how to improve them have been put
forward. It also enabled the school to self evaluate the quality of teaching and learning at schools. The
procedures and tools for internal and external performance audit of schools have been developed, and key
personnel (73 internal audit trainers) and 700 schools have been trained to carry out an audit. Four full-
time positions to coordinate audit activities were created in the EDC. The subcomponent has created the
culture and practice of applied policy analysis and performance audit in the education
sector in Lithuania.




                                                     18

Component 2. Resource Utilization

Susbcomponent 2.1: Energy efficiency

The objective of this subcomponent has also been realized. The energy efficiency rehabilitation work
was completed as planned in 62 education institutions and the methodology for the preparation of energy
audit of schools was prepared. According to the survey of 51 schools (out of 62), on average, one school
saved approximately US$8,100 per year after the renovation, which is more than 30 percent. Staff of the
MES and municipalities were trained on how to prepare standard bidding documents, organize tendering
of construction works, and to evaluate bidding documents.

Uniform methodology for preparation of "Energy Audits of Schools" for future renovation was prepared.
This methodology suggests uniform criteria and requirements to be applied for preparation of energy
audits of EIP (62) schools, and it can also be used for preparation of energy audits of any education
institution. School representatives in every municipality were trained on how to use energy saving
equipment efficiently and how to maintain buildings properly. A leaflet on the economical consumption
of energy for pupils of 5th -8th grades and brochure on the building maintenance and energy saving
intended for maintenance staff of school were prepared and disseminated.

Subcomponent 2.2: Optimization of the School Network

Methodology for school network optimization was introduced to all 60 municipalities and implemented.
Likewise, methodology for efficient transportation systems was implemented in 6 pilot municipalities.
Recommendations from the pilot were prepared, published and disseminated in all 60
municipalities, which was included in the general network optimization plans for 2004-2012. The
average student-class size has increased from 23.4/1 in urban area and 11.4/1 in rural area in 2002 to
24.3/1 in urban area and 13.7/1 in rural areas in 2006. The number of students who are using school
buses doubled since 2003. According to the survey of 446 stakeholders such as MES officials, school
principals, teachers and trade unions, 82 percent of respondents recognized the advantages of the school
network optimization.

Component 3. Strengthen MES' capacity for Project Management

Subcomponent 3.1: Project Coordination Unit (PCU)

The PCU functioned effectively to support and coordinate the work of the departments of the MES. All
the procurement functions and financial management tasks were processed in a timely and effective
manner. The PCU also played a strategic role in public relations for the Project. The Project was
covered by media extensively, and the ownership of the Project by schools and local communities was
strong.




                                                     19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)


The analysis of the energy efficiency component of the Project shows that the school renovation with the
energy efficient design reduced the recurrent cost per school approximately by 30 percent per year. The
Project has also reached more numbers of schools with the Project activities and likely to have sustained
impact on these schools and teachers (for example, 200 schools as opposed to 45 schools for community
of learners, 403 schools instead of 280 schools have internet access, and 9000 teachers instead of 6000
teachers received training in active teaching-learning methods.) In all, the project achieved the objective
efficiently, and in some cases, exceeded the objective without increasing financial inputs.




                                                     20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


         Names                  Title                Unit    Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Ernesto P. Cuadra     Lead Education Specialist ECSHD        Task Team Leader
Peter Darvas          Sr Education Economist   AFTH2         Education Economist
Yael D. Duthilleul    Sr Education Specialist  ECSHD         Education Specialist
Fredrick Golladay     Lead Economist            SASHD        Education Economist
Erlendas Grigorovic  Operations Officer        ECCLT         Communications
Dorota Holzer-
Zelazewska           Operations Officer        ECSHD         Research Analyst

Richard James         Consultant               MNSIF         Consultant
Eszter Kovacs         Consultant                ECSPS        Procurement
Elzbieta Sieminska    Sr Procurement Specialist SARPS        Procurement
Hiwote Tadesse        Senior Program Assistant ECSSD         Program Assistance

Karl Enar WennerstromSr Financial Management
                     Specialist                ECSPS         Financial Management

Supervision/ICR
Ana Maria Parchuc de Senior Human
Jeria Figueroa       Development Specialist    ECSHD         Task Team Leader

Mary Canning          Lead Education Specialist ECSHD        Task Team Leader
Marc Bellanger        Consultant               EASEG         Consultant
Dorota Holzer-
Zelazewska           Operations Officer        ECSHD         Operations Officer

Keiko Miwa            Sr Education Economist   ECSHD         ICR team leader and
                                                             primary author
Mariana Doina Moarcas Operations Officer       ECSHD         Operations Officer
Juan Manuel Moreno
Olmedilla            Sr Education Specialist   ECSHD         Education Specialist

Karina Mostipan       Sr Procurement Specialist ECSPS        Procurement

Iwona Warzecha       Sr Financial Management
                     Specialist                ECSPS         Financial Management

Barbara Ziolkowska   Procurement Assistant     ECCU7         Program Assistance




                                             21

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                                             No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                    consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY00                                       3                 14.50
                     FY01                                      37                202.21
                     FY02                                      42                158.67
                     FY03                                       5                   2.38
                     FY04                                                           0.00
                     FY05                                                           0.00
                     FY06                                                           0.00
                     FY07                                                           0.00
                                      Total:                   87                377.76
Supervision/ICR
                     FY00                                                           0.00
                     FY01                                                           0.00
                     FY02                                                           0.56
                     FY03                                      31                 82.67
                     FY04                                      16                 63.99
                     FY05                                      13                 66.03
                     FY06                                      20                 76.39
                     FY07                                       8                 24.11
                                      Total:                   88                313.75




                                          22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The study on the impact of the EIP was carried out by the MES, and the report entitled Assessing the
impact of the Education Improvement Project, Lithuania: Does the EIP mark the beginning of the road
towards progress? has been prepared. The questions asked and the synopsis of the results is summarized
below.

How do schools present themselves as EIP participants?

The presentation of schools as the EIP participants varied, and schools use different tools to publicize the
information on the EIP activities, including:
     The EIP ideas posted on the classroom walls and on the doors;
     school libraries with a shelf dedicated to the EIP-related material;
     billboards on the EIP-related cooperation and participation throughout different stages of the
        project; mobile stands with illustrations on the results achieved by the working groups made up
        of school teachers;
     publications on paper and CD on the EIP;
     a tree displayed in the school`s lobby and depicting the story and results of the school`s
        participation in the EIP;
     a billboard hanging in the school`s hall with photos depicting moments of application of
        cooperative learning methods during lessons and events for teachers; and
     the EIP chronicles prepared by schools describing all the EIP-related achievements.

In which school activity areas are the features of school's improvement in the EIP most evident?

The EIP-related changes were most evident in the following five areas:
     general education/learning environment;
     professional development;
     teaching/learning opportunities;
     cooperative culture; and
     the EIP-related dissemination.

Which of the professional development opportunities did the schools make use of?

The following three characteristic of the teachers' professional development were pointed out:
    prerequisites for professional development;
    features of professional development;
    organizational peculiarities of the training conducted within the framework of the EIP.
Through discussions with the teachers and heads of schools, it appeared that the best conditions for
professional development within the framework of the EIP were ensured, if:
    The school provided conditions necessary for the professional development of teachers, the
        teachers participated in, gave and discussed open lessons, implemented projects and attended
        various upgrading seminars.
    The teachers were made aware of the priority areas of professional development in advance
        and made use of the opportunities offered by the professional development system established
        at the school.
    The school adopted a long-term strategy which provided useful assistance to the teachers to
        help them acquire new competencies necessary for the improvement of the education process.
    Every member of the school's team had an opportunity to participate in the training organized



                                                     23

       within the framework of the EIP.

What features of renewed pedagogical activities are evident at the classroom level?

The changes that took place at the classroom level can be grouped as follows:
    teaching and learning methods;
    organization and assessment of the teaching and learning process;
    non-traditional activity forms; and
    physical environment on the classroom.

How did the schools manage to integrate their culture of cooperation offered by the EIP?

The most vivid examples of cooperation were identified in the following areas:
    teacher cooperation;
    student cooperation;
    teacher-student cooperation;
    teacher-administrative staff cooperation;
    student-administrative staff cooperation;
    involvement of the school community in various activities; and
    openness of the school to the external environment.

How did school manage to benefit from the opportunities offered by the EIP, and how did it focus
on the renewal of the teaching/learning environment?

The noticeable improvements in the general teaching/learning conditions could be grouped as follows:
    overall environment at school;
    use of school areas for the students' leisure and other activities;
    information areas in public facilities;
    educational role of the library;
    use of sports aids for the active leisure of the students; and
    accessibility of IT and other technologies.

What kinds of initiatives were promoted as a result of the EIP implementation at schools?

The EIP gave impetus to the following initiatives at the school level:
    Heads of schools noted that teachers became more active. There is a lot of initiative coming
       from teachers (e.g., a working group of teachers was formed with the aim to solve attendance
       problems). In some cases they are so full of initiatives that someone has to stop them.
       Teachers apply new educational methods more boldly, they are not afraid of making mistakes,
       they search for better solutions and study literature.
    Schools became willing to share their experience with each other, to continue with their
       cooperation and take care of the dissemination of teaching/learning-related experience. It was
       decided to establish a club of EIP schools, together with the Education Development Center,
       to form an EIP data base and to print a publication for the school community on the changes
       that took place.
    According to the teachers, EIP made their life fuller in a material sense but more in an
       intellectual sense as it gave stimulus to a more rational, focussed and renewed education
       process.




                                                    24

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Numerous stakeholder workshops were organized for the project.




                                               25

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower prepared a comprehensive final review report on the EIP with detailed account on each
objective and component activities. The following is the conclusion of the final review report prepared
by the Borrower (without editing or modifying). The Borrower had no comment on the ICR prepared by
the Bank team.

 1.   Analysis of the work done by the project components convincingly indicated that EIP was a well-
      prepared and well-implemented investment project, and that the goal will be achieved in the nearest
      future.
 2.   The resources available for the implementation of the project were used in an efficient way. Big
      sums of money were saved during procurement competitions, and furniture and teaching aids were
      bought not only to basic schools, which participated in EIP but also to secondary schools and
      gymnasiums and pre-school education institutions.
 3.   The project is finished, and it is clear that establishing institutions to carry them on ensures
      sustainability of the activities of sub-components.
 4.   The project implementers at schools, municipalities, counties, MES, centers affiliated with MES,
      etc. gained valuable experience in preparation and implementation of investment projects. This
      experience is already used in preparation and implementation of education projects financed by the
      EU structural and other funds.
 5.   Activities of all four components were integrated between each other and served the same purpose.
      The tasks corresponded to the strategic plans of MES.
 6.   Great success was achieved because all implementation group members were the MES officers or
      the officers of the institutions affiliated with MES. Many municipalities and counties substantially
      supported the implementation both as partners and financially. Great success was signing
      agreements between all 60 municipalities and 10 counties, and MES with responsibilities and rights
      of both parties.
 7.   The Midterm analysis of the work of every component already revealed that components had been
      performing targeted activities and were going to achieve the aim set up in the PAD and PIP.
      Despite of the fact that the project became operational in September 2002, only procurement of
      some goods was lagging behind of the original schedule. It was clear that all components would
      implement their activities in time and would do much more than it had been planned.
 8.   The assistance of foreign consultants was of paramount value. The pyramid method of passing the
      knowledge from a foreign consultant to a small group of very well trained Lithuanian
      teachers/experts, from Lithuanian experts to local consultants, from local consultants to local
      school teachers or principals as well as school communities. In this way a core group of local
      consultants was developed by every component. Now they are the main supporters and inspirers of
      new national and local education projects financed from the budget of the Lithuanian Government
      or EU Structural Funds. The project is also a great success because seminars for upgrading their
      knowledge are being organized from time to time with the assistance of foreign consultants or the
      most educated Lithuanian consultants from various fields.
 9.   It is very important that when EMIS is finally established as a system, managers of all levels would
      use the provided information for decision-making. It is indispensable to carry out training programs
      for the mentioned managers.
 10. Implementation of PA in education changes the existing management practice: means of
      argumentation of political decisions, some of the functions and roles of high-level education
      managers. Implementation of this kind of changes depends not only on the human and material
      resources (qualified specialists, their competences, infrastructure, etc.), but also on the context of
      points of view and attitudes. During the first two years of EIP implementation (when it was so
      much invested into PA human and material resources and the first reports prepared by PAG were
      introduced) it was achieved that there appeared the demand for permanently received information


                                                       26

   (both statistical and descriptive) on situation in education. Acknowledging the necessity of analysis
   of situation in education, education managers of Lithuania were quite reserved about the necessity
   of institutionalization of education policy analysis (i.e. argumentation and evaluation of political
   decisions). In this context PAG has to demonstrate its capacity to produce high quality education
   policy analysis.
11. A great success is also the fact that the Division of Strategic Planning and Policy Analysis at MES
    was established under the Minister.
12. Students' achievements studies are becoming a regular activity of the education monitoring system
    in Lithuania. The main issues now are to constantly appraise the capacity of making analysis of
    data from these studies; to clarify the messages to be delivered after these studies and improve
    communication of these messages; to continue the development of testing; to create methodology
    for evaluation of students' key competences.
13. The paramount success of the project is the establishment of the National Agency for School
    Evaluation. The system of support to schools, based on the results of Internal and External Audits,
    is being established in Lithuania.
14. The success of renovation of schools depended upon the companies, which won the tenders, and
    upon the professionalism and commitment of representatives of municipalities and counties.
15. The resources available for the implementation of the Project were used in an efficient manner. The
    saved resources were allocated to procure school furniture, teaching aids.
16. It was a success to include municipalities into the pilot Net Optimization project and to write the
    recommendations on the issue based on their own experience. Network Reform Information
    Campaign with the community people in municipalities made it possible to do the work without big
    social tensions. It is clear that every reform must be supported financially (expenses for small
    works, re-qualification of teachers, new teaching aids, yellow busses, etc.).
17. Every national investment project should be managed nationally with a PCU but not PMU
    established in the premises of MES. The results and products created by the project should be the
    property of MES. The capacity gained during such projects should be used by education system
    itself.




                                                    27

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There was no co-financier for this project.




                                              28

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of Euro 29.0 million to the
   Republic of Lithuania for an Education Improvement Project (May 19, 2002)
   Loan Agreement (Education Improvement Project) between Republic of Lithuania and
   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (July 29, 2002)
   Lithuania Country Partnership Strategy (May 6, 2004)
   Lithuania Country Economic Memorandum: Converging to Europe  Policies to Support
   Employment and Productivity Grown (October 7, 2002)
   Lithuania Country Assistance Strategy (April 19, 1999)
   The Education Improvement Project (7128 LT) Final Review with detailed Annexes prepared by
   the MES
   Aide Memoire and management letter of each mission from project identification until completion
   Implementation Status Reports #1 - #9




                                               29

