Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24157-LT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 29.0 MILLION
(US$ 25.39 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 17, 2002
Human Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 17, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lithuanian Litas (LTL)
1 LTL = US$0.2625
US$1 = 3.8089 LTL
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
ECA       Europe and Central Asia
ECD       Education Development Center
EMIS      Education Management Information System
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ESS       Education Sector Strategies
EU        European Union
FMRs      Financial Monitoring Reports
HUDF      Housing and Urban Development Foundation
ICT       Information and Conmmunication Technology
IFAC      Intemational Federation of Accountants
IPs       Investment Projects
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
ISA       International Standards of Auditing
MES       Ministry of Education and Science
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NEC       National Education Center
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAG       Policy Analysis Group
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PISA      Program for International Student Assessment
POC       Project Oversight Committee
SWL       Sector Investment Loan
SOEs      Statement of Expenditures
TIMSS     Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
TORs      Terms of Reference
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:  Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:  Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ernesto P. Cuadra



LITHUANIA
EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressedL by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional ireforms supported by the project                     14
3. Benefits and target populaticn                                                     14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in the project design                                 18
4. Indications of bornower connitment and ownership                                   19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        19
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           19
2. Financial                                                                          20
3. Technical                                                                          20
4. Institutional                                                                      21
5. Environmental                                                                      22
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     24



2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            26
2. Other                                                                              26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           45
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Laxiing Project Entities, or Financial Summary    57
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    58
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                         69
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     80
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            84
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                        86
MAP(S)
IBRD 26177



LITHUANIA
Education Improvement Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: May 17, 2002                               Team Leader: Emesto P. Cuadra
Country Manager/Director: Michael F. Carter      Sector Director: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P070112                              Sector(s): EP - Primary Education, ES Secondary
Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
[X] Loan     t] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: Euro
Amount (US$m): EUR 29.00 million (equivalent to US$25.39 million)
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spreacl Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                        Years to maturity: 25
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four years, and 0.75%  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter, less any waiver     Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan P'roceeds
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis: Variable
Type of repayment schedule:
pq Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): customized
[1 ] Linked to Disbursement
Conversion options: [X]Currency  ]Interest Rate  [ ]Caps/Collars:
MKIMP     (l
BORROWER                                                     11.64           0.00         11.64
IBRD                                                         16.75           8.64         25.39
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING             8.38           0.00          8.38
COUNTRY                                                                           _-
Total:                                                       36.77           8.64 _       45.41
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF LITHJANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
Address: Volano Str. 2/7 LT-2691 Vilnius Lithuania
Contact Person: Arlnas Pliksnys
Tel: (3702)62-2929           Fax: (3702)31-3774           Email: arunas@rsmm.lt
Other Agency(ies):
Housing and Urban Development Foundation
Address: A. Juozapaviciaus g. 9 LT-2600 Vilnius, Lithuania
Contact Person: Aloyzas Vitkauskas
Tel: (370-2)728-002; 732-992         Fax: (370-2)722-784           Email: a.vitkauskas@hudf.lt



Estimated Disbursements Bank FYIUS$m):
Annual     2.70      7.10      7.20      8.39
Cumulative    2.70      9.80      17.00    25.39
Project implementation period: 3.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
-2 -



A. Project Development CObjective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project seeks to improve student achievement in basic education (grades five to ten), and to make a
more efficient use of the financial, human and physical resources allocated to education, by supporting
municipalities in their effort to optimize their school network and by improving energy efficiency and space
utilization in an initial group of sii:ty-two targeted schools.
To achieve these objectives the project will: (i) improve the provision of teaching aids in basic education
based on the demands of the new curriculum; (ii) upgrade skills and knowledge of teachers working in
basic education, to equip them with new teaching skills that promote collaborative learning and critical
thinking; (iii) support the creation of communities of learners in basic education to facilitate collaboration
and continuous leaming among teaechers through the use of information and communication technology
(ICT), and the internet; (iv) support the establishment of a center to monitor education quality by
strengthening the Ministry of Education and Science (MES) capacity to conduct policy analysis,
modemizing the current education management information system and enhancing the current capacity of
the sector for conducting systematic assessment of students performance; (v) modernize the current system
of school certification and supervis.ion by introducing new tools and methods for school self evaluation,
which will be complemented by independent extemal audits; (vii) develop and introduce at the municipal
level a methodology for school consolidation, merger and closure; and (viii) improve the energy efficiency
as well as the properties of building envelops, ventilation, lighting and hygiene in sixty-two schools. To
facilitate project implementation, the program will support the establishment of a small Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) responsible for providing support to MES in areas such as procurement, financial
management, project coordination, and communication and information.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards the project objectiive will be monitored and assessed according to the key performance
indicators outlined in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 19135-LT Date of latest CAS discussion: May 11,1999
The CAS identifies the three areas in which the Bank intends to provide support to Lithuania as follows: (i)
design and implement integrated policies for macroeconomic and financial stability; (ii) implement the
agenda of measures, reforms and ivestments needed for European Union (EU) accession; and (iii) design
and finance reforms and institutiont building in education, social security, health and social assistance.
The proposed Education Improvenient Project would contribute to objective (iii) by strengthening the
capacity of MES and local education authorities to identify priorities, implement measures to improve
student learning, and increase efficiency in the allocation and utilization of education resources.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government of Lithuania has embarked on a bold program of educational reforms. These reforms are
intended to increase the relevance, quality and cost-effectiveness of education at all levels. Its key
principles and guidelines are reflected in the new 1991 Education law and in a document entitled The
General Concept of Education in Lithuania, published in 1992. This effort has continued without
interruption through several changes of government and enjoys support from the major stakeholders.
- 3 -



Children start first grade at age 7 or 6 but they have the option to attend preschool (grade "zero") and
kindergarten prior to that. There are plans to make grade "zero" accessible to all. Primary school
constitutes the first level of schooling and covers grades 1-4. Basic school covers grades 5-10, and upon
completion, students may enter upper secondary education (grades 11-12), a vocational school, or go to
work. Schooling up to 16 years of age is compulsory and free. Enrollments have declined at the preschool
level since independence. However, enrollments in grade zero have increased significantly in the last few
years and were reaching 66% of children in 1998. In the year 1999-2000, about 599,294 students were
enrolled in grades 1-12, plus an additional 93,444 were enrolled in preschool and kindergarten and 33,225
in vocational schools attaining general education. Including all possible types of ownership (state,
municipality and private), there were 821 primary schools (738 of them in rural villages), 578 basic
schools (534 of them in rural villages), 710 secondary schools (of which 252 were in rural areas and 42
were Gymnasiums), and 24 Youth schools that offer a combination of general education and vocational
training for students with learning problems.
Student teacher ratios were about 12:1 in preschool, 17:1 in primary and 11:1 in basic and secondary.
Rural schools are small: about 22 students per primary school (grades 1-4) and 104 per basic school
(grades 5-10) compared to urban schools that have about 313 students in primary grades and 297 in basic.
A peculiar characteristic of the system in Lithuania is the possibility to organize schooling in separate
administrative units (schools). As a result, a very complex structure combining different stages can be
found, even within a single institution. There are primary schools with only grades 1-4, and basic schools
with grades 5-8(10) and with 1-8(10); secondary schools with grades 1-12 and 5-12; Gymnasiums with
grades 9-12; Art Gymnasium with grades 1-12, Technology Gymnasiums with grades 11-12 and Youth
schools with grades 7-10.
The reform program has focused on changing the structure and organization of schooling, and in
standardization of examinations and assessments, decentralization of governance and finances, and
optimization of the educational infrastructure.
Structural Reforms. Although structural reforms affect all sectors of the education system, the focus has
been on the upper secondary level. The period of compulsory education has been increased from 9 to 10
years, with the tenth year being incorporated into basic education. All schools providing upper secondary
instruction are being transformed into gymnasiums. The gymnasiums will be given the option to stress one
of two curricula: the sciences and mathematics, or the humanities and social sciences (both options are
given already now in all secondary schools and gymnasiums, or art (now only in Art Gymnasium), or
technologies (now only in technology Gymnasiums). Students in gymnasiums will be offered integrated
instruction in broad areas of study during the ninth and tenth years of school. The most significant change
in the vocational education sector has been the creation of higher vocational (post-secondary) institutions-
officially called higher non-university institutions or colleges. These institutions will provide tertiary
training that will lead to the award of the BA degree.
Examinations and Assessments. Standardized, national matura exams in both mandatory and elective
subjects have been introduced at the end of the twelfth year. The matura has also been made to serve as a
unified entrance exam to higher education.
Governance and Finance. The reform program has sought to increase accountability to parents and
students through the introduction of choice of school by students and parents, capitation based funding, and
systematic review of the stock of school buildings. The 60 municipal governments have been assigned
- 4 -



responsibility for the management of education budgets. A municipality serves an average of about 10,000
students.
During 2000 and 2001, Lithuania began to move towards a "money follows the student" policy for
financing general education. Allocation of money to schools is now based on a new per capita funding
system (known as "student basket') that is based on the number of students attending schools (rural
schools would receive a proportionately higher per-student allocation than urban schools, ostensibly to
compensate for the high teacher-student ratios in rural schools). This new system replaces the traditional,
unnecessarily complex formula which allocated money to municipalities following historical patterns based
on number of class section and other factors such as square footage of educational facilities owned by the
municipality. As a consequence of this funding scheme, many vacant places were funded.
The new system defines a national subsidy (basket) per student enrolled. Today this amount is determined
based on historical enrollment paltems, but should soon become more flexible so as to become an effective
instrument for per-capita allocation. This represents a welcomed change in the direction of a more
adequate incentive system that better promotes more efficient allocation and use of resources. Hlowever, the
new system could be still significantly improved by: (a) better aligning authority and responsibilities (for
example, teachers' salaries are defined at the central level while school financing is the responsibility of
municipalities); and (b) promoting more informed parental choice and competition amnong schools.
The system of education monitoring and supervision is ineffective. The system of the assessment of student
performance needs improvement in order to provide useful information for the monitoring of education
quality. In addition to this, MES lacks an education research policy and the information collected by MES
is insufficiently disseminated and rarely used for policy making.
Improve efficiency. Lithuania spends almost twice as much per students for heating as Western systems in
similar climates. This is due prinarily to inefficient designs and maintenance of heating systems and
ventilation and, in some cases, to low quality construction and/or poor state of repair. The cost of heating
school buildings could in principle be reduced by investment in upgrading of mechanical systems and
improvement in insulation properties of buildings. The return on these investment depends on a series of
factors including school design and year of construction.
The number of students in Lithuanian schools has been in constant decline in the last ten years. Since 1992,
Lithuania began experiencing a d-cline in population due to falling birth rates and out migration. As a
consequence, the number of students in year I to year 4 declined from 223,458 to 223,271 in the school year
1998-1999, a small decrease of 1 37 that should become larger as the cohort born after 1997 reach the
school entry age. The number of schools, classes and teachers, however has not been reduced in line with
declines in enrollment, and this has lead to very generous average pupil-teacher ratio which in primary
schools is equal to 17:1 and an average class size of 21. As a consequence, an increased proportion of
scarce resources is now devoted to salaries and building operations at the expense of investment on
education materials, upgrading of teaching skills and knowledge of teachers, and maintenance of school
buildings. There is considerable scope for improving efficiency in the allocation of school resources at the
municipal level. Since municipalities and individual catchment areas will not experience the same rate of
decline in their school age populations, policy changes will affect them differently requiring that school
planning and resource mobilization be carried out at the school and municipality level. Municipalities lack
appropriate incentives and technical capacity to prepare and implement school optimization plans. The MES
needs to work with municipalities to develop a comprehensive framework and a methodology that will
provide the right incentives and the technical tools to develop and carry out a plan of school amalgamation
- 5 -



and closures.
The government has initiated efforts to optimize the distribution and capacity of schools in order to
implement the structural changes outlined above and to reduce costs. It has also focused particular
attention on the high cost of operating and maintaining existing schools. A sharp decline in the size of
cohorts entering the first year of primary schools has compounded the problem of uneconomically small
class sizes and excessive staffing, particularly in rural areas. In addition, the cost of operating school
buildings has been excessively high because of the inefficient design of many buildings and their
mechanical systems, as well as neglect of routine maintenance. The general priorities for the renovation of
schools include: (a) improving heating and insulation systems; (b) ensuring hygienic conditions; (c)
providing access for disabled children; (d) repartitioning interiors to allow both larger classes and more
flexible use of teaching space; and (e) offering student transportation in order to provide access to (and
choice from among) a diverse collection of schools and programs.
The optimization of the network is also expected to bring about the closing of schools and a consequent
reduction in recurrent expenditures. The closure of schools will lower costs for heating, lighting and
maintaining buildings and also result in a need for fewer teachers. The govermment introduced a new
formula for the allocation of budgetary funds in 2002 that places ernphasis on the number of students being
taught. It is expected that this change will make it attractive for both municipalities and schools to
restructure their spending and to allocate more money for equipment and other quality enhancing inputs in
order to attract students.
Improve quality of teaching and learning in general education. The adoption of market principles of
economic organization together with the development of a democratic society and the entry of Lithuania
into the European Union will require a profound transformation of the goals, aims, organization and
delivery of education. Significant progress has been achieved in the revision of the curriculum, the
introduction of new standards and the establishment of a modem assessment system. To consolidate these
changes teachers need to be retrained to equip them with the new teaching skills based on collaborative
learning and critical thinking. At the same time, schools and classrooms need to be equipped with modem
teaching aids that promote the same type of leaming practices among students and that facilitate
collaboration and continuous learning among teachers.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will address three main issues. The first one is the need to raise students achievement
to a level comparable with the average of OECD countries. The second is the need to improve efficiency in
utilization and allocation of resources. And the third one is the need to raise the capacity of MES, education
policy makers, local education authorities and school principals to continuously examine the performance
of the system in order to identify the reasons behind low students perfornance and inefficient use of
resources.
In order to address these issues the project contemplates the following interventions: (i) improvement of
teaching and learning conditions in schools: (ii) increase energy efficiency of school buildings; (iii)
optimization of the school network; and (iv) strengthened central and local capacity for policy making,
monitoring and evaluation of educational outcomes.
The project will upgrade teaching conditions in schools by focusing on the improvement of the teaching
practices of teachers, on the provision of modem teaching aids that will support the improvement of
- 6 -



teaching practices, and on the crcation of community of practices among teachers through the promotion of
active collaboration and continuous communication using modem information and communication
technologies such as computers and the internet. The enhancement of teaching competences and learning
conditions in school are indispensable prerequisites for improving students performance since these are
some of the strongest factors associated with students achievement.
The project will promote a more efficient use and allocation of education resources at the local level by
making school more energy efficient and by promoting the reinvestment of savings on inputs that will
improve quality of teaching. Al;o, the project will support municipalities in the preparation and
implementation of comprehensi-e programs for optimizing their school network by strengthening the
capacity of MES to help municipalities in the preparation of those plans and by providing incentives to
municipalities through a competitive fund, to motivate them to carry out the plans.
The project will support the development of MES capacity to collect timely and reliable inforrnation on
different aspects of education including student performance, education financing and school management,
and to use that information to iniform decision making, planning and monitoring. Strengthening MES
leadership capacity is a critical requisite for the creation of effective schools. The project will also support
the development of capacity at tle local and school level for evaluating quality of classroom teaching,
school management and school performance, and to use that information to prepare and monitor school
improvement plans. Strengthening the local and school capacity in this area is essential to ensure that
curriculum reforms, innovations in teaching, provision of teaching aids and introduction of modem
information and communication technologies in schools are tailored to the diverse needs and capacities of
students and teachers, and that they yield the expected results.
Sector Issues           Strategic Choices
Inefficient use and     * Improve energy efficiency and space utilization of individual schools
allocation of education  * Train school staff in the management and utilization of schools which have
resources.                been refurbished to maximize potential energy efficiency savings
* Promote the consolidation of school network by building the technical
capacity of municipalities to prepare and implement agreed programs for
school consolidation, amalgamation and closure
Need to improve education * Provide modem teaching aids including access to information and
achievement to levels     communication technology.
comparable with European * Train teachers on modem teaching methods and on the uses of new teaching
Union countries.          aids and equipment adapted to the new curriculum.
* Facilitate the creation of community of leamers among teachers and students
through access to internet.
Need to strengthen the  * Develop MES capacity for policy analysis and dissemination of information
capacity of MES and local  to decision-makers and relevant stakeholders.
education decision makers  * Reform existing system of school supervision
for education quality   * Strengthen MES capacity for monitoring and evaluation by enhancing the
management               -capacity of its centers for collecting data and conducting student assessment.
As indicated before, the Government started reforming the education system in the early 1990s but the
reform has still a long way to gco. The activities supported by the project complement many aspects of the
reform and are in a way essential for its successful implementation. The introduction of a new curriculum
will not succeed without upgrading teachers' teaching skills and modemizing teaching aids, including the
-7 -



introduction and use of computers and access to internet. In order to gauge the impact of the education
reform and to be able to take corrective actions, the education sector needs to strengthen its capacity for
conducting regular assessment and evaluation of interventions. With little additional investment Lithuania
can achieve its educational goals provided that the current resources are use efficiently, which is not
presently the case. Optimizing the use of school resources is an imperative but its achievement will require
creating a new social consensus on how to decide where to locate schools and how to fund them. The
project will be dealing with these issues by promoting consultation and involvement of stakeholders in
finding socially and economically acceptable solutions.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The main project goal is to improve educational achievement of students attending basic education. To
achieve this goal the project is organized around two main objectives. The first objective is to enhance the
quality of teaching and learning and the second is to optimize the use and allocation of education funds
and resources. These objectives would be achieved through five main project sub-components, namely: (i)
enhancing teaching and learning conditions in schools; (ii) modernizing the system of education quality
management; (iii) upgrading of schools facilities to improve energy efficiency; (iv) strengthening the
capacity of municipalities to develop and implement school network optimization plans; and (v) enhancing
MES capacity for project management and implementation through the establishment of a Project
Coordination Unit.
Component 1: Quality Learning
Obiective: To enhance the quality of teaching and learning in basic schools
Sub-Component 1.1: Improvement of Teaching and Learning ($5.1 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to enhance the quality of teaching and leaming in basic education by
developing professional competencies of basic school teachers and by improving the leaming conditions in
basic schools. It will do so through the following three interventions: (i) upgrade teaching skills and
knowledge of basic school teachers to promote the use of active leaming strategies, cooperation-based work
methods and of altemative student assessment methods, and ensure effective use of modem teaching aids;
(ii) update of teaching equipment and provision of modem teaching aids to basic schools according to the
demands of the new curriculum and teaching practices; and (iii) supporting the creation of communities of
leamers involving teachers and students in the schools through the use of different ICT technologies and the
intemet.
Training of teachers will be focused on the school as the unit of intervention and will be structured around
teams of teachers that will be learning together. Schools participating in the training will establish school
leaming networks. By working in teams, teachers will be leaming from each other and will be developing
new competencies and acquiring new skills through collaborative work. Also, they will be encouraged to
search for teaching/learning methods that are more appropriate to their reality, thus making their work
more effective. The training model will rely very little on individual isolated work or on the advice of
extemal experts. The teams of schools participating in the project would develop their professional
competence through constant sharing of experience. It is expected that the cooperation of teachers at the
school level and among schools would result both in teachers' professional growth and improvement of
- 8-



learning conditions in schools. In. order to increase the effectiveness of the training, the project will provide
schools with new teaching and learning aids that will support the utilization of the active learning methods
and alternative student assessment tools acquired during the training.
The training will be delivered in lhree phases, with the first phase reaching approximately 260 teachers
from approximately 64 basic schools. These teachers will not only acquire new teaching skills but will also
participate in the creation of small learning communities in their respective schools and approximately 80
of them will be given the possibility of becoming trainers or agents of change during the other two phases
of the program. The participating schools will be selected based on their willingness to be involved in this
experience, the potential of some of the teachers to serve as future trainers, the commitment of at least two
teachers to serve as change agents on the second and third phase, and the potential of the school to achieve
the main objectives of this activity. The second phase will involve approximately 80 to 100 basic schools
and will use some of the teachers trained in phase one as facilitators and trainers. The third phase will
follow the model established in phase two, where trained teachers will act as facilitators and trainers of
teachers in an additional 220 basic schools. Due to logistical difficulties, all 600 basic schools cannot be
reached in a period of four years, therefore, it is expected that by the end of the project a total of about 360
to 390 basic schools would have iparticipated in these activities.
By the end of the project, participating teachers would be using active teaching/learning methods and
alternative students' achievement assessment methods, they should also know how to use teaching aids
effectively. Reproductive methods of learning would gradually transform into interpretational methods.
The use of teaching aids should make the education process more interesting to students and increase their
motivation.
Sub-Component 1.2: Education Quality Management ($1.5 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to enhance the capacity of MES and local education authorities to
manage education with a constant. focus on quality improvements. In order to achieve this, the project will
promote increased use of empirical information in decision making at school, municipal and national level
and will conduct systematic observations of how the use of information affects student learning and
management performance in school, municipalities and MES. It is expected that these observations would
help education policy makers and managers decide what information is most useful and effective, and how
to present information to different stakeholders. To do this, the project will: (i) establish a Policy Analysis
Group (PAG) within the Education Development Center (ECD) responsible for providing the system's
managers, central and local, with timely, reliable and accurate analysis to inform policy formulation,
implementation and evaluation; (ii) strengthen the existing management information system (EMIS) of the
MES; (iii) reform the current system of school supervision/inspection; (iv) enhance the current capacity to
collect and disseminate education information and to measure students' achievements; and (v) upgrade the
management skills and knowledge of school principals.
The implementation of these activities will lead to the creation of a harmonized national multi-tier system
(MES, Local Education Authorities, and Schools) of education monitoring and quality management which
will safeguard the quality of education services. It will be based on reliable statistics, continuous
monitoring and evaluation of student learning, permanent research, and a modem system of education
indicators developed based on intemational best practices. It will also encompass a system of intemal and
extemal audit of educational institutions that will be used to design targeted intervention and training
program for education managers aimed at improving the quality of teaching and school management.
The information will be generated in three distinct processes. First, information needs of managers,
-9-



inspectors and school heads will be assessed and based on that assessment statistics will be collected about
schools and municipalities (physical facilities, instructional materials, students, teachers, administrators,
costs). Second, student performance data will be collected as measured through the assessment of student
knowledge of the content of the curriculum at 4th, 6th, 8th and 10 grades. Third, quantitative data on the
organizational culture and processes of individual schools would be generated in order to monitor their
performance and to assist them in the preparation of school improvement plans. This information will be
distributed to stakeholders in order to get the community more involved in the operation of the schools and
to make schools more accountable to the population that they serve.
The project will finance: (a) equipment for the establishment of the PAG, the modernization of the MES
information system and updating the capacity of the Education Development Center, (b) software; (c)
training of MES staff on policy analysis and evaluation, design of student assessment instrument,
collection, analysis and presentation of education statistics; (d) training of MES, local and school personnel
to increase their ability to generate timely and quality information about system performance and
implementation of policies; (e) training of principals on school management, leadership and community
management skills; (f) technical assistance for improving MES capacity to design and introduce new state
of the art student assessment instruments, standardization of education indicators to be compliant with EU
and OECD requirements, and for the establishment of a new system of school internal and external audits;
(g) printing of manuals and training materials; (h) data collection and generation of information in time to
inform decisions made in the normal cycle of the school year; (i) dissemination of information; and (j)
analysis of information connecting policies and practices with outcomes through a program of educational
policy research.
By the year 2005, the Policy Analysis Group will be operational with qualified staff and appropriate
equipment Its main responsibility will be to support MES strategic planning, policy making and
monitoring functions. The current EMIS will be modernized and strengthened to equip appropriate centers
not only to collect relevant information to support policy analysis and decision making but also to inform
stakeholders of the state of the system. A system of Internal and External Audits will be in place to help
schools prepare and implement their own improvement plans and to provide information on education
processes to central and local education authorities, so they can have a better understanding of what is
operating well in the system and what areas need improvement and targeted interventions.
Component 2: Resource utilization.
Objective: To optimize the utilization of education funds and resources.
Sub-Component 2.1: Energy efficiency ($33.8 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to upgrade school facilities to make school buildings more energy
efficient, improve hygiene conditions, and make them more suitable to accommodate the learning needs of
all students. The MES plans to achieve this objective through three interventions: (i) improving the
efficiency of heating and ventilation systems, and overall building envelope; (ii) improving hygiene
conditions and provision of facilities for school libraries; and (iii) providing access for the handicapped.
The project will finance: (i) civil works at municipal level; (ii) training of municipal and school authorities
in the utilization of the refurbished facilities to maximize savings in energy consumption; and (iii) impact
evaluation studies. Municipalities have agreed to contribute with 25% of the total costs of renovation. In
order to participate in the energy efficiency sub-component, municipalities must have a school optimization
plan under implementation. All schools that would be rehabilitated during the first year of the project
belong to municipalities that have school optimization plans under implementation. A condition for signing
- 10 -



a Subproject Grant Agreement with the municipality would be that the municipality has an optimnization
plan under implementation. If a miamicipality agrees to a plan and fails to implement it, it will not be eligible
to participate in the school transportation program.
The MES envisages completing the renovation of sixty-two education institutions by the year 2005. MES
would set the standards for infrastructure investments and design of educational spaces, in addition to the
standards for optimization of the network. Municipalities would select one school each, based on a set of
predefined criteria. The schools selected by the Municipalities would benefit from a package of measures
aimed at: (i) energy cost reduction; (ii) improvement of physical conditions; (iii) improvement of
engineering structures and hygiene conditions; (iv) provision of school library space; and (v) access for the
handicapped. Where required - interiors would be reconfigured in order to create better conditions for
learning and working in small groups, to set up reading-rooms, to install utilities and equipment in
laboratories, and to create conditions for the disabled to study at the same school. As part of the
preparation of the improvement plan for each school the contractors will be asked to conduct an.
environmental analysis of the schcol in accordance with Bank guidelines and, if required, prepare an
environmental management plan to address the environmental issues identified
MES will receive support from the Housing and Urban Development Foundation (HUDF) for the
implementation of this sub-component Roles, responsibilities and accountability are defined in the
Operational Manual prepared for ihis component during project preparation.
In addition to school renovation, the project will train personnel and students of the renovated schools to
save heat and electricity, and maintain the renovated constructions of the buildings and the installed
equipment. The project will also conduct a series of studies in the renovated schools aimed at assessing the
technical aspects of the interventicns and the cost-efficiency of the energy savings and related investments
funded by the project.
The selection of individual schools would be conducted in an open manner and in accordance with
agreed-upon local strategic goals. Schools selected for renovation should meet a number of criteria in
addition to being in need of extensive renovations. These criteria include having a clearly defined role in
the newly developing network of schools and fitting into a feasible local/regional development strategy.
Beneficiary schools would also benefit from training in the operation of the refurbished facilities, along
with municipal authorities, in order to maximize savings in energy consumption.
Sub-Component 2.2: OptimizatiOn of the School Network ($4.3 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to opfimize the network of schools within municipalities, while
simultaneously improving the quality of teaching and learning, maintaining current high levels of access to
basic education, and enhancing efficiency in utilization of educational resources. To achieve this, the
project seeks to develop MES capacity to assist local governments implement a program for optimizing
their school network, organizing student transportation to ensure universal access to basic education, and
putting in place an accounting monitoring system to help them decide how to invest back the savings
obtained through energy efficiency and network optimization intervention in education quality improvement
programs.
The project will support MES develop, together with local education authorities, a strategy and
methodology for a more efficient use of the current school network and the implementation of an
appropriate school transportation solution. This methodology should take into account both the
demographic and economic changes experienced by local communities across Lithuania as well as their
specific needs and the constraints imposed by their local (education) budget envelop. It is planned that
-1 1-



MES will provide support to local governments in the preparation and implementation of their own plans of
school closures and amalgamations, and financial and technical support for the development of a cost
effective school transportation solution.
During the first year of the project MES, in consultation with municipalities, will prepare a methodology
for optimizing school network and organizing school transportation. This methodology will be pilot tested
in six municipalities selected on a competitive basis. In order to provide incentives to municipalities to
participate in this program the project will establish a fund to finance school transportation solutions,
including school buses, small civil works aimed at enhancing the infrastructure of receiving schools,
provision of additional teaching aid to receiving schools and training of teachers who might become
redundant as a consequence of merging or closing of schools.
A condition for municipalities to participate in the school bus program is to have a school network
optimization plan approved by MES under implementation.
Key issues that would need to be addressed during project implementation is how to secure consensus on
criteria for a viable school with different stakeholders. This will require wide consultation with social
partners. A cultural tradition in favor of village schools means that closure proposals could be strongly
opposed by local communities. Municipality councilors and elected Mayors, therefore, need support in
taking hard decisions in the long-term interests of the wider community. Staff reductions will inevitably
lead to increased unemployment, often in remote areas where few altemative jobs are available. The
funding arrangements for municipalities should be reviewed to remove disincentives for the removal of
surplus places, e.g. by basing a larger proportion of funding in the state subsidy on pupil numbers rather
than the number of classes. Savings resulting from amalgamations and closures should be retained within
the municipality budget.
To achieve the objective of this sub-component the project will finance: (i) technical assistance for the
development and implementation of a methodology and strategy for school network optimization; (ii) data
collection and surveys to find altemative cost-efficient solutions for school transportation; (iii) workshops
for stakeholders and community consultation; (iv) training of MES and local education policy makers on
how to implement the methodology; (v) printing of manuals, training and information materials; (vi).
purchase of software; (vii) and purchase of buses; (viii) small civil works in receiving schools; (ix) teaching
aids; and (x) retraining of redundant teachers.
It is expected that as a result of the network optimization effort, the number of drop-outs from basic
education will decrease by 30 percent, while the number of vacant places in schools will be down by 50
percent and the average class size will increase from 23 to 26 in cities, and from 13.8 to 16 in rural areas
Component 3: Strengthen MES' capacityfor Project Management
Objective: To provide support to project implementation and maintain the general public informed about
the reform program.
Sub-Component 3.1: Project Coordination Unit (PCU) ($0.4 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to support the operation of a small unit to provide: (i) coordination
support to MES departments, various educational institutions and municipal authorities implementing the
project; and (ii) implementation support in procurement, finance and administration according to World
Bank guidelines. This unit has already been created within the regular structure of MES and has been
implementing a PHRD Grant.
- 12 -



The PCU will support project implementation by ensuring that: (i) project activities are well coordinated;
(ii) necessary project inputs are provided in a timely and cost-efficient manner; (iii) project resources are
appropriately managed in accordance with Bank requirements for procurement and financial management;
and (iv) effective project monitorinig and progress reporting is carried out.
The PCU will also be responsible for coordinating systematic outreach to the various stakeholders of the
project. Specifically, it will: (i) inform the general public, the teaching community and parents about the
goals and progress of the reform; and (ii) use this infornation and targeted messages to highlight the
benefits and build support among lzey beneficiary groups. It will also be responsible for the development
and implementation of a campaign strategy over the life of the project by strengthening the external
relations and conmmunication capability of the MES, running programs and advertisements on TV, radio
and in the newspapers, and hosting public events and seminars.
The PCU will consist of five staff: director, coordinator, procurement advisor, financial advisor and
secretary/translator. The unit would function within the MES, as an integral part of the MES, and it is
envisaged that it would complete ils activities within six months of project closing.
To ensure an effective execution of project coordination activities the project will finance: (i) technical
assistance and training in project management, procurement, financial management and disbursements, and
utilization of key software programs; (ii) salaries of PCU staff; (iii) essential office equipment and
software; (iii) workshops and seminars; (iv) development, production and distribution of campaign
materials, information handouts atd booklets; (v) production and broadcasting of TV and radio programs
and advertisements; (vi) surveys, fDcus groups and polls; and (vii) incremental operating costs of the PCU
including the cost of communications, interpretation and translations, banking fees, transportation, office
supplies, equipment maintenance, and audit fees.
1. QUALITY LEARNING                                              0.0                 0.0
1.1 Improvement of teaching and  Other Education       5.12      11.3      4.02       15.8
learning
1.2 Education Quality Management  Other Education      1.49       3.3       0.59      2.3
2. RESOURCE UTILIZATION                                          0.0                 0.0
2.1 Energy Efficiency            Other Education      33.78      74.4      16.87      66.4
2.2 School Network Optimization  Other Education       4.34       9.6       3.57      14.1
3. STRENGTHEN MES                                                0.0                 0.0
CAPACITY FOR PROJECT
MANAGEMENT
3.1 Project Coordination Unit    Other Education       0.43       0.9       0.09       0.4
Total Project Costs                  45.16       99.4     25.14      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.25       0.6      0.25       1.0
Total Financing Required                    45.41     100.0     25.39     100.0
- 13 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
At the municipal level. The program will support MES's effort to promote the optimization of the school
network by encouraging municipalities to develop and implement a program of school closures and
amalgamation to ensure that high quality education is delivered in a more cost-effective way. In addition
the program will support the rehabilitation of school buildings to make them more energy efficient and with
better utilization of space. Savings resulting from this program should be retained within the municipality
budget to contribute to the improvement of education quality. This effort will require wide consultation at
the local level to secure consensus on the criteria for viable schools. Severance payment for staff made
redundant as the result of school closures should be considered. Also, grants for re-training redundant
teachers could be made available to ameliorate the unemployment impact of school consolidation activities.
The program will support the introduction of changes in the function of inspectors which will require the
introduction of new approaches in the inspection process. The role of the inspectors will change from the
current one which is guided by bureaucratic compliance with rules and regulations, and emphasizes control,
to a totally different one that supports school improvement through self assessment and independent
external evaluation.
At the MES level. The program will support the establishment of a center for monitoring education
quality in order to strengthen the capacity of the sector to generate information that can be used by
policy-makers to design, implement, monitor and evaluate policies and program to improve the relevance
and quality of education. One of the biggest challenges of the program is to get current MES funded
agencies, such as the student assessment and the education management information system, to collaborate
under a unified program.
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct beneficiaries of the program include all students who will be reached by specific project inputs
like new learning materials in the classrooms and through improved practices from their teachers and
principals. More broadly, all students in general secondary education will benefit indirectly from more
efficient and effective education services as a result of the institutional strengthening and optimization of
resources supported through this program. This currently represents about 599,294 students in grades
1-12. In addition, teachers, principals and inspectors will benefit from participating in specific training
activities aimed at improving their teaching and management practices. Municipalities will also benefit
from increased management capacity developed through participating in project activities and additionally
from savings generated from more efficient use of resources, consolidation of schools buildings and
improved infrastructure conditions that can reduce heating expenses.
Indirect medium term benefits of the program will accrue from improved efficiency and effectiveness in the
management and delivery of education services. The capacity of the MES for policy making and
management at all levels of the system will be strengthened under the program. The program will benefit
MES staff by enhancing their knowledge and skills, and by improving their working conditions through
access to new technologies, know-how and technical resources.
Long term benefits are derived from the projected improvement in quality and relevance of leaming as a
result of better management and implementation of quality programs in general education. All this should
lead to improved students achievement and improved effectiveness and efficiency of the education delivery
system.
- 14 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Organization responsible for project implementation: The project will be implemented in three and a
half years. The overall management responsibility for project implementation lies with the Ministry of
Education and Science, under the direction of a Project Director.
The Minister of Education has appointed the Director of the Department of General Education in this
capacity. The Project CoordinatiDn Unit has been established as part of MES and will provide support in
the areas of procurement, financiaF management and monitoring.
Project management and staffinig: The MES is responsible for overall implementation of the project on
behalf of the Government of Lithuania. It is recognized, however, that there are several institutions and
municipal/local stakeholders and representatives outside the formal MES structure that need to be involved
in the process of deternining project outcomes and reviewing its impact during implementation. The
Minister of Education will establish a Project Oversight Committee (POC) responsible for overall policy
guidance of the project, for endorsing recommendations made by the Project Coordination Unit and the
project working groups, and for monitoring project outcomes. The POC will be composed of no more than
eight members drawn from the educational system and the public and private sector. The PCU Director
will be an ex-officio member and secretary to the POC.
Three entities will participate in the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Sub-Component;
municipalities, MES, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the HLUDF. MES, MOF and HUDF will sign a
tripartite agreement for the implementation of this sub-component MES, HUDF and municipalities will
sign an agreement for the implementation of school renovation in each municipality. A general description
of roles and responsibilities of these three entities with respect to the implementation of the energy
efficiency sub-component is presented below and is fully described in the "Operational Manual of School
Rehabilitation Program" cleared by the Bank during appraisal.
The responsibilities and activities of project implementation for each component and sub-component will be
carried out by the component's and sub-component's Worldng Groups. A component team leader, a senior
officer of the MES, will direct ea-h component. New job descriptions for the team leaders have been
prepared indicating the percentage of time that they will be allocating to the project. Depending on the
complexity of the component, the team leader of the Working Group will have dedicated or part-time staff
to assist him/her to carry out their duties. In the case of component having sub-components, coordinators,
who are currently members of MES or its affiliated agencies, will head the respective sub-component.
The team leaders of the Workinig Groups will report and be accountable to the Director of the Project
and will:
be responsible for the group's activity plan
* be responsible for the component's carrying out activities on time
* monitor the activities the staff
* approve all requests for iesources
*  manage the interface with local and extemal bodies
* manage the interface with other components
produce performance reports for the PCU
manage the storage of all Working Group-related files and inventory of all purchased materials
The PCU will be responsible for.
- 15 -



overall project coordination
consolidating annual activities' plan
* preparation and administration of annual project budget
* submission of project activities and monitoring reports to the POC
* administration of project contract and procurement according to the World Bank guidelines
* managing financial systems for project expenditures
* monitoring project budget implementation and financial operations
* management of the process of disbursement of loan funds
* ensuring that annual project audits are carried out
* producing annual monitoring and evaluation reports of project activities
* liaising with World Bank, other organizations and interested parties
* maintaining appropriate record system
Roles and Responsibilities of MES, Municipalities and HUDF in the implementation of the Energy
Efficiency Sub-Component:
MES is the main agency responsible for ensuring the proper implementation of this sub-component. It will
play a key role in supporting municipalities for the selection of schools to be rehabilitated, in conducting
the energy audit on those schools, and in the approval of each investment project.
Municipalities will be directly involved in the selection of schools, preparation of the detailed design,
procurement and supervision and evaluation. They will also be responsible for financing of 25% of the
total cost involved in school rehabilitation.
HUDF will play a supporting, monitoring and control role in the implementation of the Energy Efficiency
Sub-Component. Based on experience accumulated during the implementation of the Municipal
Development Project, HUDF will participate in the preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of all school rehabilitation activities carried under this project. It will be directly involved in the evaluation
of school investment plans, procurement planning, preparation of TORs for detailed design and overall
supervision of the bidding process.
Identification: Each municipality is to select a school for renovation in accordance with selection criteria
developed during project preparation.
Preparation: following MES approval of the schools, energy audits and investment projects (IPs) will be
carried out at each school in accordance with a standard audit methodology.
Implementation: HUDF will evaluate energy audits and IPs and will provide IP Evaluation Reports to
MES. Upon IP approval by MES, IP Implementation Contracts will be signed between MES,
municipalities and HUDF. HUIDF will then prepare procurement plans and TOR for technical designs,
support municipalities in preparation of the designs, provide the standard package of bidding documents
and support municipalities in drafting the bidding documents. Upon completion of the technical designs and
bidding documents by municipalities, HUDF will issue authorization to invite bids and support
municipalities in conducting the tender. Once municipalities evaluate the bids and recommend the winner,
HUDF will issue an authorization to sign the construction contracts and prepare the TORs of construction
supervision for municipalities to use in hiring construction supervision consultants. Upon receipt and
approval of invoices, municipalities will pay the 25% of the contract amount. HUDF will provide support
in construction supervision and verify appropriateness of payment documents. Once the verification is
complete, HUDF will provide the documents to MES for payment of the 25% of government's share of the
- 16 -



contract amount. The remaining '50% of the contract amount will be paid by HUDF from the Special
Account. Municipalities will orgEnize the final advance supervision, in which MES and HUDF will take
part. Upon completion of the final advance supervision, HUDF will verify the remaining payment
documents, followed by payment of the remaining part of the contract: 25% by MES and 50% by HUDF.
Completion and evaluation: ME'S will engage in completion and evaluation of the component works
through hiring consultants to perform Technical Monitoring and providing Energy Management Training to
municipalities.
5. Financial Management:
The newly established PCU, within the MES, will be responsible for setting up and operating the financial
management system of the projeci.. The project's accounting will be based on a software that will be able to
produce all the reporting, including the periodic Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), required by the
Bank.
An accountant, with extensive accounting experience, has already been hired. The accountant will be
responsible for the customization of the accounting software as well as preparation of the project's
accounting manual that would cover (i) the financial management arrangements for the project, with
special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (ii) the format and
content of the project financial reporting; (iii) the audit arrangements, (iv) accounting and control
requirements for the recipients of the project's financial assistance; and (v) budgeting and planning
arrangements.
The PCU will be responsible for appointing the auditor and for ensuring that the financial statements,
Special Accounts and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent international
auditor who would be member of a professional body that is a member of the International Federation of
Accountants, acceptable to the Bank. The PCU will be required to send the annual audit reporl to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The PCU will appoint the auditor no later than September
30, 2002.
The Project will initially disburse funds under the Bank's traditional disbursement method, including the use
of SOEs, with the future option of moving to the Financial Monitoring Reports-based disbursement method
(with the mutual agreement of the Borrower and the Bank).
To facilitate timely project implenmentation, the Project will establish, maintain and operate, under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts at the Central Bank (Bank of Lithuania). One
maintained by the PCU for Sub-Components 1. 1, 1.2, 2.2, and 3. 1, and the second maintained by HUDF
for Sub-Component 2.1.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Lending instrument. Sector Investment Loan (SIL) versus Adaptable Program Lending (APL). The team
discussed with the Country Unit and the Government the pros and cons of different available lending
instruments. It was agreed that given the possibility that the country will soon be joining the European
Union and might not be borrowing from the World Bank, the SIL would be most suitable. This project,
however, must be developed and presented within the context of a more comprehensive, long-term
- 17-



framework, where both the long-term vision of the reform are defined and the contributions of the project
are clearly identified. The achievement of long term cost-efficiency gains are not expected to take place in
a period of four to five years due, on the one hand, to the magnitude of the challenges involved in
reconditioning most of the schools in the country and, on the other, to the need to advance the consolidation
of the school network in a phased manner, in order to engage local communities in decisions regarding
school closure and amalgamations.
Type of intervention. System focus phased versus individualized-specific interventions. Given the
challenges faced by education in Lithuania, an approach that looks at the system as a whole was deemed
more appropriate rather than a set of narrowly focused and loosely interconnected interventions.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementatlon  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Pross (IP)  ObjectIve (DO)
Municipal Development            Municipal Development             S            S
Social Services                   Social Policy and Community     HS           HS
Social Services Development
Macro/Non-Trade                   Rehabilitation
Thernal                           Power Rehabilitation
Pollution/Waste Management        Klaipeda Environment
Other development agencies     .     __        ___      a   _  ,   __
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Sub-Component 1.1 Teaching and Learning. Good teaching has been identified as the key to school
success and the single most important cause of increased student leaming. Effective teaching will be
supported in the project by specially designed trining programs aimed at changing teachers classroom
practices and make effective use of learning materials.
Sub-Component 1.2 Education Quality Management. The Social Policy and Community Social Services
Development project in Lithuania strengthened the value of having a centralized management information
system within the Ministry. Its success was highly dependent on a well developed strategic plan, strategic
partnerships with municipalities to collect and analyze data, and clearly defined roles and responsibilities of
all stakeholders to prevent communication problems.
Sub-Component 2.1 Energy Efficiency Project design takes into consideration the experience in energy
efficiency renovations gathered during the rehabilitation of schools under the Housing Pilot/Energy
Efficiency project. The MES is also monitoring the ongoing implementation of school rehabilitation
sub-projects financed by the Municipal Development Project (Loan 4064-LT) and has prepared guidelines
to assist municipalities in the selection of schools.
- 18 -



Sub-Component 2.2. Optimization of School Network (and public awareness). The political economy of
education reform recognizes the value of involving education stakeholders at various stages of reform and
to keep the public well informed as a key to successful implementation. The project design takes care of
such need by specifically including a sub-component to help support such activities and by developing a
participatory methodology to addhess the controversial issue of school consolidation.
Sub-Component 3.1. Project Coordination Unit ECA guidelines recommend that if a PCU needs to be
established it should only assume as set of narrowly defined and specific project functions like procurement
and financial management and helping strengthen institutional capacity at the MES to manage the project.
The design of the proposed PCU is in line with those recommendations.
4. Indications of borrower comnitment and ownership:
The Ministry of Education and Science has indicated its commitment to the project by having established a
Steering Committee to guide project preparation and by appointing the Director of the Department of
General Education as Project Director. It has also established several working groups responsible for
project preparation and implemeniation. MES has formally established that the leaders of these groups will
have a portion of their time fully dedicated to the implementation of project activities. During project
preparation, the PCU has been under the leadership of the Director of the Finance Department of MES.
The Ministry of Education and Science has held extensive consultations during project preparation to
solicit input from a wide range of stakeholders and ensure that the project enjoys necessary support within
constituencies that are likely to be key in implementation.
MES discussed the project with mayors, municipal and regional education authorities at a number of
conferences and workshops both ia Vilnius and in the field. Considerable efforts were made to reach
parents and school principals to explain the need for improvements and earn their commitment to changes
proposed. MES disseminated information on the program through national, regional and specialized media,
and also made it available on its website. In total, twenty-five events were organized to promote the
program and seek stakeholders contributions.
Non-government organizations, members of Parliament and academia with a special interest in education
participated in project preparation by providing regular input and comments on the design of the program.
The project was one of the core topics discussed by the members of Lithuanian National Education Forum
at the Office of the President Ministry of Finance hosted a conference to present the proposed program to
the donor community.
5. Value added of Bank supporl: in this project:
No other donor agency is availablh to provide either the technical or financial resources to support sector
wide reform in Lithuania. In addilion, the Bank brings the experience of supporting education refonns in
other countries in the region. Particularly relevant for Lithuania is the case of Latvia.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ rillion; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
- 19 -



The project has two main components: (1) Quality Learning (representing 15% of total project cost),
including provision of teaching aids, teacher training, development communities of learners and improving
the education management system; and (2) Resource Utilization (84% of total project cost), including two
distinct sub-components, energy efficiency and optimization of the school network. Also a small amount of
resources are invested in a Project Coordination Unit (1%) to enhance coordination and implementation
support for the project.
The economic analysis shows an internal of rate of return (IRR) of 14.6% for the project. Independent
project components also show a favorable IRR: (a) 15.2% in the case of the Quality Learning component
and (b) 14.5% for the overall Resource Utilization component.
The efficiency component is expected to generate significant recurrent resource savings to society. Also,
the component should significantly improve environmental conditions in schools and classrooms, including
adequate heating and ventilation, improved lighting and hygienic conditions, access for disabled children
and new libraries and laboratories. As all of these are factors that both empirical and theoretical
educational research has consistently linked to improved student outcomes in developing countries, the
efficiency component is also expected to generate significant external benefits in terms of an increased
future labor productivity of students. The quality component is also expected to result in significant future
labor productivity gains. The link between teaching aids, teacher training, and other teaching materials and
improved student performance has been consistently shown by educational research. The relationship is
particularly strong in developing countries, where, as in Lithuania, there is limited access to these resources
on the part of teachers and students.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The project is financed by the Bank ($25.39 million or 56% of total cost), the Central Government of
Lithuania ($11.64 million or 25% of total cost) and the Lithuanian Municipalities which own and manage
public schools ($8.38 or 19% of total cost).
Fiscal Impact:
The project should not have a significant impact over the national budget and not even over the national
education budget, representing a maximum of 0.7% of total national education budget in year 1, after
which the project expenditures are expected to represent between +0.5% and -0.6% of that budget. The
fiscal impact over the Central Government budget is also expected to be insignificant or, during the whole
life of the loan, about 1.5% of the central government (2000) educational budget. The financial effect over
municipal budgets should be insignificant during the first three years of the project and after year 4 should
actually produce recurrent cost savings of the order of 0.3% to 0.8% of the 2000 municipal educational
budget, representing between 12% and 40% of the average annual municipal capital education budget since
1995.
3. Technical:
The project has been designed taking into consideration findings and recommendations obtained from
analytical work conducted as part of the preparation of the project, the Review of the Lithuanian Education
System conducted by OECD and a series of studies commissioned by the Open Society Fund-Lithuania. In
order to obtain information from the beneficiaries and people that will be affected by the project, a
systematic consultation with stakeholders was organized by the project preparation team during project
preparation.
- 20 -



Key challenges that would need to be confronted during project implementation include: (i) involvement of
stakeholders not only in the process of consultation but also in the implementation of different activities; (ii)
motivation of teachers, school directors and local education authorities to actively participate in different
project activities; and (iii) active involvement of education authorities on the identification of key
information needs which are at the core of preparation of education policies and plans. This information
will for the core of the data that will be collected for policy analysis and monitoring of quality. The project
team is aware of these challenges and has put in place different strategies to prevent resistance and deal
with each of them as needed.
4. Institutional:
The MES has not experience in implementing similar programs. The line units responsible for the execution
of program activities would need to be strengthened through additional training in project planning and
management and through short and long term technical assistance.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MES will implement most praject activities through its line units. A Project Coordination Unit will
help coordinate project implementation and will provide support in areas of procurement, financial
management and communications. The management responsibilities for the each project component will be
clearly assigned to MES managers heading organizational units within the Ministry.
MES will contract HUDF to implement Sub-Component 2.1: Energy Efficiency. HUDF has considerable
experience with implementation of Bank financed energy efficiency projects, i.e. presently it is the
implementing agency for the Municipal Development Project. MES will define implementation
arrangements in collaboration with HUDF, in order to hamess HUDF's expertise, while maintaining overall
responsibility for programmatic decision making and financial control. A detailed breakdown of
MES/HUDF responsibilities is presented in the Operational Manual of the energy efficiency
sub-component.
4.2 Project management:
It will be necessary to balance the need to have several organizations involved in project implementation,
with the need to ensure that project execution is timely, effective, and targeted towards meeting the broader
development objectives. Open conimunications, and timely and transparent infonnation flows will be
essential to achieve a balance between the roles and responsibilities of those involved in the Project
Oversight Committee, which will involve key stakeholders, the PCU, the working groups, the mumicipalities
and HUDF.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The PCU, which is located within MES, will be responsible for all procurement activities during project
implementation. It will provide coordination and assistance in bidding, selection of consultants, contracting
and payment procedures in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. PCU staff will be members of Bid
Evaluation Committees to evaluate proposals received for services, and the PCU will arrange for the
necessary no-objections from the Bank. Procurement procedures will be closely monitored by the Bank.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Accounting Software. The accounting software has not yet been purchased. For Board Presentation, the
accounting software is being installed and tested and a project accountant has been hired at the PCU. This
accountant has a back-up (from either HUDF or the Ministry of Education) who has been trained.
- 21 -



Accounting Policies and Procedures. The PCU accounting system will be designed to manage all the
World Bank financial management reporting requirements as well as the project's own management
reporting requirements. Project Accounting procedures were agreed upon during Project Appraisal. The
procedures aim at identifying all job tasks in the project accounting cycle and individuals carrying out these
tasks. The job tasks were designed to achieve segregation of duties within the staff. The PCU is a
newly-created unit and will therefore need to amend an existing project financial management manual to the
needs to this particular project.
Staffing. The PCU has five staff in place, the Director, Project Coordinator, a Project Accountant, an
Engineer and Procurement Specialist. The identification of Procurement Specialist is under way. Under
the project, the Project Director will have the overall responsibility for the project implementation while the
Project Coordinator will lead the day-to-day work. With regard to financial management, the Accountant
will be responsible for all accounts related activities including preparation of all the necessary Bank
required reports.
Risk. There is no CFAA for Lithuania and the financial management risk at country level has not therefore
been assessed. The overall control risk is moderate to substantial. This rating is mainly due to the
complexity of the Project, which will require good coordination between different agencies and working
groups. It would be a challenge to ensure that resources are used in an economic and efficient manner.
This situation is particularly relevant in the case of Sub-Components 1. 1, 1.2, 2.2 and 3., and not so much
for Sub-Component 2.1
Reporting and Monitoring. It has been agreed that the project will use the new FMRs for the quarterly
reporting. The following reports have tentatively been agreed upon:
* Discussion of Project Progress
* Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
* Uses of Funds by Project Activities
* Physical Progress Report (physical outputs, preferably used for Sub-Component 2.1)
* Physical Progress Report (status of services, preferably used for Sub-Components 1. 1, 1.2, 2.2,
and 3.1)
* Procurement Monitoring Report
The reporting required for the management of the project, such as the follow-up work for each one of the
60 Municipalities should be designed by the PCU.
External Audit The project audit will include (i) an opinion on the project financial statements (including
the SOEs), and (ii) an opinion on the compliance of the Bank guidelines for the Special Account(s). The
audit will be carried out in accordance with Intemational Standards of Auditing (ISA) and carried out by
an auditor acceptable to the Bank. This means an auditor who is a member of a body affiliated with the
Intemational Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No significant environmental issue has been identified.
- 22 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan has been prepared and will be part of the implementation agreements
signed between MES, HUDF and municipalities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA
Date of receipt of final draft: 04/18/2002
The project contemplates relative small civil works interventions in a total of 62 schools (change of boilers,
change of windows, improve insulation of roofs) to improve school energy efficiency. For each school an
energy audit will be conducted where environmental issues will be addressed. During school renovations,
contractors will be required to follow the environmental management plan agreed during appraisal.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholders have been consulted curing project preparation for defining the criteria that will be used for
the selection of schools.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
HUDF and MES will require municipalities to supervise if contractors are working in line with the
requirements of the EMP, in addition HUDF will conduct independent supervision of the sites.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
School consolidation will have an impact on students and parents (distance to schools affected) and
teachers (may lose teaching position). An important challenge of the project is to get parents andi teachers
to understand and support the school network optimization process. In order to face this challenge, the
project contemplates an intensive consultation and involvement process. The information obtained through
consultation will be used to prepare and implement an information and communication strategy, and to get
these groups involved in the design of some of the interventions.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The methodology that will be designed to approach issues of school consolidation will be based on a
participatory approach with consullation with stakeholders
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As mentioned in Section D.4 above, the Ministry of Education and Science has held extensive consultations
during project preparation to solicit inputs from a wide variety of stakeholders such as mayors and
municipal and regional education authorities at a number of conferences and workshops, both in Vilnius
and in the field. This consultation vill continue during project implementation. MES will disseminate on a
regular basis information on the program through national, regional and specialized media, and also made
it available on its website.
It is contemplated that consultation and with civil society specially with the teachers union will be an
important element of the methodology to be developed for assisting municipalities in the process of
optimizing the network of schools.
- 23 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Conmmunities will be involved in the consultation process, and principals will be trained to achieve such
objective.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terns of social development outcomes?
MES will conduct continued consultations to solicit inputs from major stakeholders (mayors, municipal
authorities, and regional education authorities) and disseminate this information through national, regional
and specialized media, as well as its website.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safeguard  licies  1 tothe roect?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 436)                                     O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 437)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Environmental Management Plan was developed and agreed with MES. This EMP will be part of the
tripartite agreement that will be signed between MES, HUDF and municipalities. Contractors will be have
to abide by the requirement of this plan during school renovation.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The proposed project will reduce the recurrent costs of providing education by 10-15 % in participating
schools. In addition it will strengthen the capacity of municipalities to undertake strategic planning, to
implement school consolidation plans and to support quality improvement processes in schools.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
_' _ rJ -.=Riik~4          Riffld.8aig >F.---. -RsQiigtones
From Outputs to Objective
MES does not release staff to work in the  N         Job description of team leaders and members of
project as needed.                                  the working group indicating the arnount of time
that they will be assigned to project activities.
Stakeholders do not accept school network  S         Continuous consultation with stakeholders and
optimization plans                                   pernanent communication with the broader
public.
- 24 -



Energy savings do not materialize          N         High quality schools audits and technical
analysis of the energy efficiency component to
identify the most cost-effective interventions and
ensuring control over associated costs have been
conducted and will be disseminated to
municipalities.
From Components to Outputs
Incentives are not sufficiently strong for  M        Careful selection of initial group of teachers and
teachers trained in the initial phase to             involvement of head teacher from the beginning.
motivate them to train teachers in other
schools in subsequent phases. As a result
of this the cascade approach to traiining
teachers does not achieve the expected
results
Lack of incentives to get full involvement  M        Municipalities have been consulted during
of municipalities in external audits and             project preparation. This consultation will have
school network optimization                          to continue during project implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                        M         Permanent communication with MES and close
supervision of financial management and
procurement arrangements during the initial
phase of project implementation
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
A sensitive area for the implementation of the project is the optimization of the school network since school
closing and mergers are usually controversial. It was agreed that in order to participate in the energy
efficiency component, municipalities must have a school optimization plan under implementation. All
schools that would be rehabilitated during the first year of the project belong to municipalities that have
school optimization plans under implementation. A condition for signing a Subproject Grant Agreement
with the municipality would be that the municipality has an optimization plan under implementation. If a
municipality agrees to a plan and lails to implement it, it will not be eligible to participate in the school
transportation program. Also, effective public communications explaining the education benefit to children
and the financial benefits to municipalities and the larger community might help bring support for this
activity. Teachers who would be loosing their jobs would be provided with retraining opportunities either
in teaching areas with brighter prospects such as teaching of foreign language, or ICT, or in skills in higher
demand in the local labor market.
- 25 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There are no Conditions of Effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The signed Implementation Agreement between the representative of the Borrower (Ministry of Finance),
MES and HUDF is a condition of disbursement for Category 1(a).
H. Readiness for Implementation
0I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
OI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
sto P. Cuadra                 Annette Dixon                      Michael F. Carter
Team Leader                        Sector Director                   Country Manager/Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Iiidicators:       Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*Design and finance    * Student performance in  E ESW (occasional);      * There is continuity and
reforrs and inistitution  Lithuani;n schools is closer to                    coherence in the Country's
building in education.    OECD norms.                * Govermnent reports    long term educational
policies, strategies and
*  Literate, educated     * Percent of grade 10                              programs.
population capable of     graduates pursuing upper
pursuing higher education  secondary education or
and/or workforce skill    workforce skill training,
training.                 increased from 97% to 99%
by Septeinber 2006.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To improve the educational  Quality:                * Student assessment      * Govermnent maintains
achievements of students in  * Percer,tage of students  (TIMSS);             commitment and continuity
basic education grades (5-10) attaining minimum standard  * Surveys and studies  towards the reform and the
of participating schools  in Lithuanian, Math, Science  assessing the operation of  project.
throughout Lithuania.     and Social Studies increased  schools;
by 10% point by the end of  * External and internal
academic year 2006;       audits;
* Publication by MES of   Municipalities are motivated
Student Flow:             regular reports and indicators and interested in optimizing
* School completion rate  on the state of basic    their school network.
increased from 77% in 2000  education;
to 95% by the end of
academic: year 2005.
* Survival rates to grades 10  Special surveys and
increased from 90% in 2002  statistics collected by MES
to 95% by school year 2006;  e
Project Progress reports;
* Net enrollment ratio in  * Bank supervision mission
basic schools increase from  reports;
88% to 95% by academic year * Evaluation mission reports
2006;                     (mid-term & ICR)
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Quality Learning
1.1. Improved student access * 6,000 teachers in about 400 * Routine project supervision * Teachers are motivated to
to quality teaching and   basic schools trained in active and mid term review.  form school teams and to later
learning conditions in basic  teaching-learning methods,                     on participate as change
- 27 -



schools (grades 5-10).    student assessment and use of * Independent Borrower  catalysts.
information and          research findings
communication technology                            * Principals are motivated to
and new teaching aids;    * Project reports         develop and support the
creation of virtual leaming
* School principals and                            environments.
school team in about 400
basic schools are able to plan
and work together in
peer-assisted teams with a
view to improving their
schools;
* Communities of learners
formed and functioning on a
regular basis in at least one
basic school per municipality;
* A network of schools and
teachers who are working and
learning together is
functioning on a regular basis;
* Participating schools have
access to new teaching
materials and the internet.
1.2. Modem system of      * Reliable information about * Routine project supervision * A culture of data utilization
education quality         system perfornance and    and mid term review.      for policy formulation and
management established.   practices are generated on                         implementation has been
time;                     * Independent Borrower    established;
research findings
* Managers at all level of the                      * MES top managers provide
education system, curriculum  * Project reports    leadership support and
developers and teachers are                         continuous funding for data
provided with reliable and                          collection, analysis and
timely information on                               dissemination;
students achievement and they
are using it for the                                * Local govemments are
improvement of education                           interested in establishing a
quality;                                            system of extemal audits.
* MES staff trained to
respond to the demands of
policy makers and local
education authorities for
analysis of information
connecting policies and
practices with outcomes;
* A system of quality
standards has been established
and is being used by MES
- 28 -



staff and education specialists
at the local level;
* The Education
Development Center and the
National Examination Center
collaborate on a regular basis
for the collection and analysis
of education data and the
production of statistics,
analysis and reports;
* Schools use internal audits
to prepare and implement
school inprovement plans.
2. Resource Utilization
2.1 Energy efficiency of  * Energy efficiency       * Progress reports        * Local governments are
school buildings improved in rehabilitation work has been                    interested in generating
participating educational  completed as planned in 62  * Supervision reports;  savings in the operation of
institutions.             education institutions;                             the education system in
* Evaluation mission reports  general and of targeted
* On average, school      (mid-term & ICR);         schools in particular.
building3' service life
prolonged by 23 years.    * Technical audit reports
* Savings of 30% to 40% has * Cost benefit studies
been acbieved on heat energy.
* MES statistics
* If energy prices remain the
same, approximately 6 million
Litas has been saved at the
end of four years due to
reduction of energy
consumption in the
rehabilitated schools.
2.2 School network efficiency * MES has developed and
improved.                 disseminated among local
education authorities a
methodology for school
network optimization;
* Municipalities have
prepared and are
implementing
efficient student
transportation systems;
* Average number of students
in classroom is up to 26 in
cities and 16 in rural areas in
pilot municipalities by 2006;
- 29 -



* Number of vacant places
financed at schools is down by
50% in pilot municipalities by
2006.
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                           Outputs)
1. QuaUty Learning         US$ 6.61 million          * Project progress reports
(quarterly);
1.1. Improved student access                                                    * School directors and
to quality teaching and                              * Project supervision reports; teachers have proper
learning conditions in basic                                                   incentives to participate in the
schools (grades 5-10).                               * Reports from External and  creation of learning teams and
1.1.1 Provision of teaching                          Internal Audits;          virtual learning communities.
aids.
1.1.2 Teachers' teaching                             * Independent financial audit * There are proper incentives
skills and knowledge                                 reports (annual);          for teachers to participate in
upgrading;                                                                      reflection days
1.1.3 Support to cormnunities                        * Disbursement reports
of learners through internet.                        (quarterly)                * There are proper incentives
for some teachers to become
1.2. Modern system of                                                           change catalysts;
education quality
management established.                                                         * There are appropriate
1.2.1 Policy Analysis Group                                                     incentives to retain the staff
1.2.2 System for school                                                         that have received training.
internal and external audit.
1.2.3 Student assessment                                                        * There are appropriate
capacity enhancement.                                                          incentives for MES units to
1.2.4 Education management                                                      collaborate in the production
information system                                                              of analysis and reports.
modernization;
1.2.5 Management skills
upgrading for school heads.
2. Resource Utilization    US$ 38.12 million
2.1 Energy efficiency of                             * Project progress reports  * There is political will in
school buildings improved in                         (quarterly);               MES to empower
participating educational                                                       municipalities to prepare and
institutions.                                        * Project supervision reports; implement their own school
network optimization plans.
2.2 School network                                   * Reports from External and
efciency improved.                                   Internal Audits;           * Municipalities are willing
2.2.1 Develop and introduce                                                     to work with MES in the
methodology for school                               * Independent financial audit preparation of school network
consolidation and closure at                         reports (annual);          optimization plans.
the municipal level.                                 Disbursement reports
- 30 -



2.2.2 Update legislation                            (quarterly)               a Competencies acquired by
related to the right to access to                                            trained staff are actually used.
basic education, and to the
reorganization and closing of
schools.
2.2.3 Student transportation
system at the municipal level.
2.2.4 Incentives to ensure that
savings obtained from energy
efficiency investments and
optimization are kept within
the school system.
3. Project Management     US$ 0.43 million
3.1 MES capacity for                                * Project progress reports  * PCU and working groups
project management                                 (quarterly);               have full ownership of the
strengthened.                                                                 goals and implementation
3.1.1 Project implementation                        * Project supervision reports; arrangements of the project
support, including specialist                                                 and have the tools and
support in procurement, for                         * Reports from External and  resources to adopt a result
working groups in the MES.                          Internal Audits;          oriented approach to project
3.1.2 Progress and monitoring                                                implementation.
and project budget                                  * Independent financial audit
management.                                         reports (annual);Disbursement
3.1.3 Communications                                reports (quarterly)
campaign;
3.1.4 Monitoring &                                  * M&E reporting
Evaluation activities
- 31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
The main goal of the Project is to improve educational achievement of students attending basic education.
To achieve this goal the Project will support a series of interventions aimed at enhancing the quality of
teaching and learning, and at optimizing the use of education funds and resources. These objectives would
be achieved through five main Project sub-components, namely: (i) improvement of teaching and learning
conditions in schools; (ii) establishment of a modern system of education quality management; (iii)
upgrading of schools facilities to improve energy efficiency; (iv) strengthening the capacity and support to
municipalities in the development and implementation of school network optimization plans; and (v)
enhancement of MES's capacity for project management and implementation through the establishment of a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$6.61 million
Component 1. Quality Learning
Obiective: To enhance the quality of teaching and learning in basic schools
Sub-Component 1.1: Improvement of Teaching and Learning ($5.12 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to enhance the quality of teaching and learning in basic education by
developing professional competencies of basic school teachers and by improving the learning conditions in
basic schools. It will do so through the following three interventions: (i) upgrade teaching skills and
knowledge of basic school teachers to promote the use of active learning strategies, cooperation-based work
methods, alternative student assessment methods, and ensure effective use of modem teaching aids; (ii)
update the teaching equipment and provision of modem teaching aids to basic schools according to the
demands of the new curriculum and active teaching and leaming practices; and (iii) support the creation of
communities of leamers involving teachers and students in the schools through the use of different
information and communication technologies (ICT) including the internet.
Training of teachers will be focused on the school as the unit of intervention and will be structured around
teams of teachers that will be leaming together. Schools participating in the training will establish school
leaming networks. By working in teams, teachers will be learning from each others and will be developing
new competencies and acquiring new skills through collaborative work. Also, they will be encouraged to
search for teaching/learning methods that are more appropriate to their reality, thus making their work
more effective. The training model will rely very little on individual isolated work or on the advice of
extemal experts. The teams of schools participating in the Project would develop their professional
competence through constant sharing of experience. It is expected that the cooperation of teachers at school
the school level and among schools would result both in teachers' professional growth and improvement of
learning conditions in schools.
In order to increase the effectiveness of the training, the Project will provide schools with new teaching and
learning aids that will support the utilization of the active learning and teaching methods, and alternative
student assessment tools acquired during the training.
The training will be delivered in three phases with the first phase reaching approximately 260 teachers from
- 32 -



approximately 64 basic schools. These teachers will not only acquire new teaching skills but will also
participate in the creation of small leaming communities in their respective schools and approxirnately 80
of them will be given the opportunity to become trainers, or agent of change, during the other two phases of
the program. The participating schools will be selected based on their willingness to be involved in this
experience, the potential of some cf the teachers to serve as future trainers, the comnmitment of at least two
teachers to serve as change agents on the second and third phase, and the potential of the school to achieve
the main objectives of this activity. The second phase will involve approximately 80 to 100 basic schools
and will use some of the teachers trained in phase one as facilitators and trainers. The third phase will
follow the model established in phase two where trained teachers will act as facilitators and trainers of
teachers in an additional 220 basic schools. Due to logistical difficulties, all 600 basic schools cannot be
reached in a period of four years; therefore, it is expected that by the end of the Project a total of about 360
to 390 basic schools would have participated in these activities.
By the end of the Project, participating teachers would be using active teaching/learning methods and
alternative students' achievement assessment methods, and they should also know how to use teaching aids
effectively. Reproductive methods of learning would gradually transform into interpretational methods.
The use of teaching aids should make the education process more interesting to students and increase their
motivation.
The teachers will be offered professional development opportunities in the following areas:
concepts and theories of learning,
*      altemative students' assessment methods;
*      school as a leaming commnunity and a community of leamers;
*      active learning and school management involving everybody (every member);
*      learning-encouraging evaluation of students' achievements and progress;
*      teaching and learning by using various means and materials;
*      problem-solving at school;
*      what is effective school, what is good teaching etc.;
*      use of information and communications technologies in teaching and leaming.
*      Information and communication technologies will be used as tools or mechanisms to achieve the
general objectives of the program.
Logistically, during phase one the training will be organized in a sequence of eight workshops followed by
reflection days. The whole sequence will last two years. There will be two types of workshops; one will
have a duration of two days and the other will last only one day depending on the learning objectives. The
reflection days will last one day. Schools participating in phase one will become pedagogical centers
responsible for disseminating best practices and for providing other schools opportunities for staff
development. These schools will receive additional funds to finance these new set of activities.
The two-day workshops will be a training event during which teachers will acquire new knowledge,
examine modern pedagogical ideas, work out action plans for the introduction of innovations in their
schools and classrooms. The attention will be focused on practical issues. The workshops will be
facilitated by specially-trained "teaohers' trainers".
In the one-day workshops in all participating schools the whole school communities (teachers, students and
parents) will be involved. During these events they will be acquainted with the Project objectives,
participation conditions, an expected results. The workshops will be led by teachers' trainers and members
of the working group for this sub-component.
- 33 -



The program for teachers participating in phase two and three will have a duration of one year, with a
sequence of four workshops followed by its respective reflection day. The duration of the training will be
shorter because there will be no need to prepare the change agents responsible for delivering training.
During the first year of the Project, an initial group of 15 to 20 teachers will be trained as teacher trainers
following a successful program implemented in Finland. The training of these teachers will be done under
a join agreement signed between MES and Helsinki University. This initial training will be the
responsibility of Finnish experts from Helsinki University and will be financed by the Finnish Government
These trainers will also work together with the Finnish experts in the development of the training materials
that will be used in the workshops.
It is expected that as a result of the training, active learning communities will be established in each school
and a network of learning communities will operate throughout the country. The creation of such network
would ensure sustainability in the development of a new teaching and learning environment in basic
schools.
In order to ensure teaching aids provided by the Project are in line with new curriculum demands and that
they respond to the needs of the schools, the demand for teaching aids will be investigated. During the
workshops the participating teachers will be given a catalogue of teaching aids that they will use to conduct
the school needs analysis. In addition, forums will be organized where business representatives will be
invited.
The catalogue of teaching aids will be prepared with the assistance of national and international curriculum
experts and active involvement of teachers and school heads. In addition, teachers will be given the
opportunity to participate in the selection of materials to be procured at their schools. The purchase of
teaching aids will start in year two. During the workshops teachers will learn how to make effective use of
these new teaching aids and will share experiences on how these materials have helped improve their
teaching practices. In addition, teachers will be provided with didactic units that will guide them in the use
of the materials in their classroom practices.
The development of new teaching and learning practices in the school will be supported by having teachers,
students and community engaged in joint learning projects using the potential of the internet. The program
will focus first, on creating the right incentives and support programs for schools that already have access
to equipment and internet to make the best possible use of it for improving student learning. During the
workshops teachers will learn how to use and take advantage of communication and information
technologies in the classroom. During the first two years of the Project, the software and the server needed
for the promotion of a virtual learning environment will be purchase. During the workshops teachers will
learn the basic principles of working in a virtual environment and will be encouraged to establish the virtual
learning platform for a given network of schools.
The Project will finance: (a) training of teachers; (b) development and publication of teaching guides,
booklets and didactic units aimed at supporting teachers professional development; (c) provision of
teaching aids, such as sets of classroom libraries to stimulate reading for pleasure, visual aids, puzzles and
games, reference materials like dictionaries and atlas, and science kits; (d) equipment for schools such as
overhead projectors and copying machines; (e) technical assistance for development of training programs
and materials; and (f) a server and software for schools.
Sub-Component 1.2: Education Quality Management ($1.49 million)
- 34 -



The objective of this sub-component is to enhance the capacity of MES and local education authorities to
manage education with a constant iocus on quality improvements. The sub-component is oriented towards
the development of a modem education quality management system, which includes monitoring, policy
analyses, national assessment of students' performance, education management information system
(EMIS), and improvement of management capacities at national municipal and school level. Education
quality management is understood as timely use of relevant information about the consequences of prior
decisions, in order to improve the ability the system to raise its effectiveness and efficiency, and above all
student achievement.
It is also oriented towards encouraging the use of empirical data in making decisions at school, municipal
or national level; to monitor the influence of the use of information on the management of schools,
municipalities and the ministry, as well as on the learning process; and to find out what information (data)
is most valuable and how to present it to different users.
It is essential that policy makers, planners and managers know how the education system is performing.
Without reliable information provided by professional analysts, policy makers and managers are forced to
guess as to how the system is performing. Analysts in tum depend on the availability of timely and reliable
data being available to enable themL to do their job. In tum these databases must be built on the basis of the
identified information needs of the policy makers, planners and managers of the system. These intemal
education databases must be reinforced by being linked and analyst must have an open access to them.
Additionally, relevant extemal databases such as demographics, economics, stc must be linked to the
educational system where relevant and needed. Finally, for the Performance Management System to work
efficiently there is the additional need for the Ministry of Education to establish an approved institutional
and organizational framework that spells the rules, regulations and procedures that will govern the
Perfornance Management System.
The Project will promote increased use of empirical information in decision making at school, municipal
and national level and will conduct systematic observations of how the use of information affects student
leaming and management performnnce in school, municipalities and MES. It is expected that these
observations would help education policy makers and managers decide what information is most useful and
effective, and how to present infonnation to different stakeholders. To do this, the Project will: (i) establish
a Policy Analysis Group (PAG) within the Education Development Center (ECD) responsible for providing
system's managers --central and lozal- with timely, reliable and accurate analysis to inform policy
formulation, implementation and evaluation; (ii) strengthen the existing management information system
(EMIS) of the MES; (iii) refonm thte current system of school supervision/inspection; (iv) enhance the
current capacity to collect and disseminate education information and to measure students' achievements;
and (v) upgrade the management skills and knowledge of school principals.
The implementation of the activities under this sub-component will lead to the creation of a harmonized
national multi-tier system (MES, Local Education Authorities; and Schools) of education monitoring and
quality management which will safeguard the quality of education services. It will be based on reliable
statistics, continuous monitoring and evaluation of student leaming, permanent research, and a modem
system of education indicators developed based on intemational best practices. It will also encompass a
system of intemal and external audits of educational institutions that will be used to design targeted
interventions and training programs for education managers aimed at improving the quality of teaching and
school management.
The information will be generated in three distinct processes. First, information needs of managers,
- 35 -



inspectors and school heads will be assessed and based on that assessment, statistics will be collected about
schools and municipalities (physical facilities, instructional materials, students, teachers, administrators,
costs). Second, student performance data will be collected as measured through the assessment of student
knowledge of the content of the curriculum at 4th, 6th, 8th and 10 grades. Third, quantitative data on the
organizational culture and processes of individual schools would be generated in order to monitor their
performance and to assist them in the preparation of school improvement plans. This information will be
distributed to stakeholders in order to get the community more involved in the operation of the schools and
to make schools more accountable to the population that they serve.
The capacities and capabilities of the Policy Analysis Group within the Education Development Center to
monitor, evaluate and report on educational policy will be strengthened. To do this, its institutional and
organizational structure, status, budget and staff needs should be clearly defined. In addition, the Group's
function, role, accountability, authority and responsibilities within the EDC must be formulated and
institutionalized to minimize the risk of overwhelming ad hoc demands on the staff of PAG. Also, MES
should establish an information management policy and procedures as one of the first actions during the
first year of Project implementation.
Three main activities will be carried out to build up the current capacity of the EMIS. First, the quality and
relevance information and data collection procedures will be enhanced through a data needs analysis and by
updating the data collection procedures and manuals. Second, the structure of the current databases will be
revised and restructured in order to respond to the information needs of managers and policy makers.
Third, user access to the information will be improved by developing better user interface and upgrading
the relevant software and hardware.
The current student assessment system needs to be strengthened in order to be able to assess how the new
standards are being introduced and how students are responding to them. Also the system needs
information on how student performance is related to indicators of education processes to allow policy
makers, system and school managers, and teachers develop policies and programs to improve students'
learning. In order to evaluate the influence of the Education Improvement Project on the performance of
students, assessment data need to be collected. To this ends, the Project will support the assessment of the
performance of students in grades 4, 6, 8 and 10 in four subjects of curriculum, i.e. the Lithuanian
language, mathematics, natural sciences and social sciences.
In addition to reinforcing the national capabilities in the systematic assessment of pupils' progress, in 2002
it is planned to conduct the research of reading and writing skills of the 6th grade students, as well as the
research of their literacy in mathematics and in natural sciences. Later, two surveys will be conducted
every year: The research of reading, writing and mathematics in the 4th grade and the overall research of
achievements in the 8th grade (in all 4 subjects) shall be conducted on odd years, whereas the research of
reading and writing skills and the literacy in mathematics and in natural sciences of the 6th grade pupils
and the research of the overall achievements of the 10th grade pupils shall be undertaken on even years.
The national research of pupils' achievements will be perforned using the methods similar to international
comparative research. Not only the tests of students' achievements shall be developed but also the
questionnaires for pupils, teachers, parents and schools. By comparing the collected data, the connections
between the pupils' achievements and the social context as well as between the indicators of training and
learning process will be analyzed.
The research shall be planned and administered on the basis of two different schemes, depending on
whether the international T1MSS and the PISA research shall or shall not be conducted during that year. In
- 36 -



the years when other research shall not be conducted, approximately 2500 students shall participate in each
of these research. 130 schools shal be selected at random. The number shall include 110 schools from all
Lithuania's schools that are not involved in the Education Improvement Program, whereas 20 schools shall
be selected from the schools involved in the Program. One class shall be randomly selected in each school.
With the view to reduce the costs of the research, it is planned to combine the administration of the national
and the intemational research in the years when the TIMSS or PISA research is performed. Then the
testing shall take place in approxirately 200 schools (including 20 schools involved in the Program) and
for the national research it shall be enough to test only 1200 children because only 3 - 5 children in each
class shall participate in the natiornal research and the "class effect" shall be very small.
It is planned that the national research of pupils' achievements be coordinated by two institutions:
Education Development Centre and National Examination Centre (NEC). EDC develops the content of
truining and conducts the research of the state of education, therefore it will co-ordinate the development of
test and questionnaires as well as the preparation of secondary research reports (subject analysis). NEC has
a lot of experience in the administbation of examinations, international comparative research and in the
processing of research data; therefore it will administrate the tests and prepare technical reports on the
research.
Presently, the Education Developnient Centre and National Examination Centre have entered into a joint
agreement regarding the performance of preparatory works for the national research of pupils'
achievements. The administration of the test in schools would be carried out by inspectors since this is one
of their duties.
Special working groups would be established to perform concrete tasks (to develop research programs,
tests and questionnaires, to arrange the dissemination of the results, etc.). The groups would consist of
experts of education content, university researchers and experienced teachers. NEC would perform other
tasks on a contractual basis (printing of tests, their mailing to education departments, the coding of pupils'
works, data entering and preparation of technical reports).
To strengthen the abilities of teachers, heads and founders of schools to manage the quality of education the
Project contemplates the establishment of a system of the internal and external audits. The objective of the
internal audit methodology is to provide schools with a self-evaluation tool that they can use to examine
their situation, prepare improvement plans and assess the impact of those plans. The objective of the
external audits is to change the philosophy of supervision-inspection from a system of inspection interested
in checking compliance of schools with legal acts, to one where inspectors focus on school quality and
become supporters of school change and innovations through consultation and technical assistance.
Some activities have already been accomplished in the area of the internal audit: the draft methodology of
the internal audit has been developed; the pilot project of the internal audit has been implemented in 29
Lithuanian schools; and the methodology to be approved in the first quarter of 2002 has been revised. The
Project will support the expansion of the scope of the internal audit system and the examination of its
suitability. In addition to this, the Project will support the development and introduction at the municipal
and inspectorate level of a complementary methodology of external audits. The internal and external audit
methodologies should in principle complement and combine with each other.
The extemal audit methodology will be developed on the basis of the intemal audit, i.e. by adapting the
internal audit methodology for the external audit, so that the founder of the school (i.e. local education
authority-municipality) could elucidate how the system is operating and identify areas that need
- 37 -



improvement. This will give municipalities an opportunity for self-assessment, and will also allow them
and inspectorates evaluate whether strategic objectives of education have been achieved.
The introduction if the internal and external audit will be done in three phases. The first is a preparatory
phase where the instruments for extemal audits will be developed, tested and validated and intemal audits
will be introduced in 120 basic schools. This phase will involve not only producing the methodology and
related instruments but also training audit trainers, that will in turn be responsible for training the
communities of the 120 basic schools. Also, municipal specialists and inspectors will be trained in extemal
audits. During the second phase, the internal and external audit methodology will be scaled-up to cover
another 240 basic schools. And in the third phase the methodology will be consolidated by covering all
basic schools.
It is expected that as a result of the activities supported by the Project, by the end of year 2005 the PAG
will be operational with qualified staff and appropriate equipment. Its main responsibility will be to
support MES strategic planning, policy making and monitoring functions. The current Education
Management Information System (ElMflS) would have been modemized and strengthened allowing
approppriate centers not only to collect relevant information to support policy analysis and decision making
but also to inform stakeholders of the state of the system. In sum, a system of Intemal and External Audits
will be in place helping schools prepare and implement their own improvement plans and providing
information to local and central authorities on education processes allowing them to have a better
understanding of what is operating well in the system and what areas need improvement and targeted
interventions.
The principal sets of actions of the Sub-Component are:
* training of Project and school personnel to increase their ability to generate timely and quality
information about system performance, policies and practices;
* training of stakeholders in use of infomnation about their organizations;
* generation of information in time to inform decisions made in the normal cycle of the school year (for
example, allocation of teachers, distribution and use of instructional materials, training of teachers in
instructional practices, training of principals in instructional leadership and school administration);
*   dissemination of information to municipalities and MES;
* analysis of information connecting policies and practices with outcomes, and dissemination to
stakeholders.
The required information will be generated in three distinct processes:
* collection of statistics about schools and municipal education systems (physical facilities, instructional
materials, students, teachers, administrators, costs)
* assessment of student knowledge of the content of curriculum, at 4th, 6th, 8th, and 10 grades
* characterization of the culture and processes of individual schools using an Intemal and External Audit of
schools.
Information will be distributed to stakeholders in the following ways:
descriptive reports profiling schools and municipal systems combining statistics and assessment data
seminars or workshops with distinct groups of stakeholders to discuss implications of these reports
* analyses and reports using statistics and External Audit data to identify those sets of inputs, processes and
school structures (e.g., pupil/teacher ratios) that explain variations in student achievement
The Project will finance (a) equipment for the establishment of a modern education quality management
system including modemizing MES education management information system and updating the capacity
- 38 -



of the Information Technology Center; (b) software; (c) training of MES staff on policy analysis and
evaluation, design of student assessment instrument, collection, analysis and presentation of education
statistics; (d) training of MES, local and school personnel to increase their ability to generate timely and
quality information about system performance and implementation of policies; (e) training of principals on
school management, leadership, oDmmunity management skills and intemal and extemal audit, and further
training of school teams; (f) technical assistance for the improving MES capacity to design and introduce
new state of the are student assessment instruments, standardization of education indicators to be compliant
with EU and OECD requirements, and for the establishment of new intemal and extemal audit systems of
schools; (g) printing of manuals aad training materials; (h) data collection and generation of information in
time to inform decisions made in Ihe nornal cycle of the school year; (i) dissemination of information; and
(j) analysis of information connecting policies and practices with outcomes through a program of
educational policy research
Project Component 2 - US$38.12 rtililon
Component 2. Resource utilization.
Obiective: To optimize the utilization of education funds and resources.
Sub-Component 2.1: Energy efficiency ($33.78 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to upgrade school facilities to make school buildings more energy
efficient, improve hygiene conditions, and to make them suitable to accommodate the leaming needs of all
students. The MES plans to achieve this objective through three interventions: (i) improving the efficiency
of heating and ventilation systems, and overall building envelope; (ii) improving hygiene conditions and
provision of school libraries; and 1(iii) providing access for the handicapped. It is expected that the savings
on heat energy will be in the range of 30 to 40 percent
Recent experience with school rerovation shows that the following measures - modernization of the local
heating unit and renovation and balancing of the heating system - are the most cost-efficient when it comes
to energy efficiency. Yet a larger effect on the whole building can be achieved when the above energy
efficiency measures are implemented together with the replacement of windows, renovation of the roof,
insulation of walls and other works related to the renewal or improvement of building structures. By
aiming at rational energy consumption in the buildings, the Project is at the same time aiming at the
improvement of the physical state and hygienic conditions of the buildings renovated. In addition to
problems related to poor heating conditions, there is an urgent need to improve the physical state of some
buildings. Thus, another important consideration for school renovation, apart from financial benefit, is to
make studying and teaching more comfortable, healthier and safer as well as to increase the life of the
buildings.
The MES envisages completing the renovation of sixty-two education institutions by the year 2005. MES
would set the standards for infrastructure investments and design of educational spaces, in addition to the
methodology for optimization of the network. Municipalities would select one school each, based on a set
of predefined criteria. The schools selected by the Municipalities would benefit from a package of
measures aimed at: (i) energy cost reduction; (ii) improvement of physical conditions; (iii) improvement of
engineering structures and hygiene conditions; (iv) provision of school library space; and (v) access for the
handicapped. Where required, interiors would be reconfigured in order to create better conditions for
leaming and working in small groups, to set up reading-rooms, to install utilities and equipment in
laboratories, and to create conditions for the disabled to study at the same school.
- 39 -



In order to participate in the energy efficiency component, municipalities must have a school optimization
plan under implementation. All schools that would be rehabilitated during the first year of the project
belong to municipalities that have school optimization plans under implementation. A condition for signing
a grant agreement (see below) with the municipality would be that the municipality has an optimization
plan under implementation. If a municipality agrees to a plan and fails to implement it, it will not be eligible
to participate in the school transportation program. The selection of individual schools would be conducted
in an open manner and in accordance with agreed-upon local strategic goals. Schools selected for
renovation should meet a number of criteria in addition to being in need of extensive renovations. These
criteria include having a clearly defined role,in the newly developing network of schools and fitting into a
feasible local/regional development strategy. Beneficiary schools would also benefit from training in the
operation of the refurbished facilities, along with municipal authorities, in order to maximize savings in
energy consumption.
Another important objective of this sub-component is to train personnel and students of the renovated
schools to save heat, electricity, maintain the renovated constructions of the buildings and the installed
equipment. For this purpose, the Project will produce a Schools Energy Management Manual. This manual
will contain training material targeted to the administration and support personnel of the schools, and
educational literature targeted to students and their parents. This documents will be disseminated via
seminars that will be organized in the renovated schools on a yearly basis.
The Project will also conduct a series of studies in the renovated schools aimed at assessing the technical
aspects of the interventions and the cost-efficient impact of the energy saving and related investment funded
by the Project.
The responsibility for the implementation of this sub-component will rest with MES. However, in order to
benefit from the experience and know-how accumulated by the Housing and Urban Development
Foundation (HUDF), who has been implementing similar type of projects under the Bank's financed
Municipal Development Project, MES and MOF will enter into an implementation agreement with HUDF.
The main roles and responsibilities of HUDF are presented bellow under the description of roles and
responsibilities of the PCU. A more detailed description is presented in the operational manual (OM) for
this sub-component which will be integral part of the above mentioned MES-MOF-HUDF implementation
agreement.
During Project preparation, MES prepared a standard school energy audit methodology with support of
consultants funided through a Japan PHRD Grant. This methodology will be used to identify individual
renovations needs for each of the selected schools. Using the results of the audits, municipalities will submit
applications for financing from MES. After the financing is finally approved by MES, tripartite grant
agreements between MES, HUDF and the municipalities will be signed describing roles and responsibilities
for getting the renovation done. Municipalities have agreed to contribute with 25% of the total renovation
costs. The details of the implementation arrangement, roles, responsibilities and accountability of MES,
HUDF and municipalities for the implementation of this sub-component is further described in the OM for
this sub-component. The MES has agreed to an Environmental Management Plan that will be applied
during the rehabilitation of schools when needed. The environmental analysis of each school would be done
as part of the preparation of the investment project for each school.
The Project will finance: (i) civil works at municipal level; (iii) training of municipal and school authorities
in the utilization of the refurbished facilities to maximize savings in energy consumption; (iii) impact
evaluation studies; and (iv) HUDF incremental costs.
-40 -



Sub-Component 2.2: Optimization of the School Network ($4.34 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to optimize the network of schools within municipalities while
simultaneously improving quality of teaching and learning, maintaining current high level of access to basic
education and enhancing efficiency in utilization of educational resources. In order to do this, the Project
seeks to develop MES capacity to assist local governments implement a program for optimizing their
school network, organizing student transportation to ensure universal access to basic education, and
providing a uniform monitoring system for accounting of saved funds through energy efficiency and
network optimization intervention to be utilized for education quality improvement programs.
The Project will support MES to develop, together with local education authorities, a strategy and
methodology for a more efficient use of the current school network and the implementation of an
appropriate school transportation solution. This methodology should take into account both the
demographic and economic changes experienced by local communities across Lithuania as well as their
specific needs and the constraints imposed by their local (education) budget envelop.
It is planned that MES will provide support to local governments in the preparation and implementation of
their own plans of school closures and amalgamations, and financial and technical support for the
development of a cost effective school transportation solution.
During the first year of the Project MES, in consultation with municipalities, will prepare a methodology
for optimizing school network and organizing school transportation. This methodology will be pilot tested
in six municipafities selected on a competitive basis. In order to provide incentives to municipalities to
participate in this program the Projiect will establish a fund to finance school transportation solutions,
including school buses, small civil works aimed at enhancing the infrastructure of receiving schools,
provision of additional teaching aicl to receiving schools and training of teachers who might become
redundant as a consequence of merging or closing of schools. After the pilot is evaluated the program will
be expanded to cover all municipalities in a sequence that will be determined as part as the evaluation of the
pilot.
Key issues that would need to be addressed during Project implementation is how to secure consensus on
criteria for a viable school with different stakeholders. This will require wide consultation with social
partners. A cultural tradition in favor of village schools means that closure proposals could be strongly
opposed by local communities. Municipality councilors and elected Mayors, therefore, need support in
taking hard decisions in the long-term interests of the wider community. Staff reductions will inevitably
lead to increased unemployment, often in remote areas where few alternative jobs are available. The
funding arrangements for municipalities should be reviewed to remove disincentives for the removal of
surplus places, e.g. by basing a larger proportion of funding in the state subsidy on pupil numbers rather
than the number of classes. It is expected that savings resulting from amalgamations and closures should
be retained within the municipality budget.
During the years 2000 and 2001 the Government of the Republic of Lithuania implemented a "The Yellow
Bus" program where 117 new buses were purchased for schools of general education and handed over to
municipalities. According to the data provided by municipalities, it is 15-17 % less expensive to take
school children to school by schooll buses than by route buses. Furthermore, municipalities report that
school children who are transported to schools by school buses waste nearly half the time than going by
route buses (time lost in travelling to school by a school bus accounts on average for 0.5 - 0.45 hour,
whereas time lost in travelling by route buses is I - 1.5 hours). It is estimated that approximately 600
-41 -



more school buses are needed to meet the children's needs of travelling to school. The Project plans to
extend this program, where it is justified, by financing the purchase of 156 additional school buses. A
condition for municipalities to participate in the school bus program is to have a school network
optimization plan approved by MES under implementation.
The activities in this sub-component are:
* MES will prepare and validate - in six municipalities - a methodology for school network optimization
that can be used by local governments and will train municipal staff on how to use it to prepare and
implement school network optimization plans;
* municipalities will prepare methodological recommendations for restructuring the network of schools on
their territories, and based on a validation with stakeholders they will adjust the proposed plans;
* altemative ways of pupils' transportation and their financial efficiency will be analyzed and assessed, and
recommendations for more effective and safer transportation will be prepared. Based on these
recommendations, municipalities will devise a plan for student transportation that is both safe and effective;
* municipalities will develop an accounting system that will allow them to keep track of the funds saved
both by renovating schools and optimizing the network of schools, and will prepare recommendations for
the re-investment of these fumds into the system of education.
To achieve the objectives of the sub-component the Project will finance: (i) technical assistance for the
development and implementation of a methodology and strategy for school network optimization; (ii) data
collection and surveys to find alternative cost-efficient solutions for school transportation; (iii) workshops
for stakeholders and community consultation; (iv) training of MES and local education policy makers on
how to implement the methodology; (v) printing of manuals, training and information materials; (vi).
purchase of software; (vii) purchase of buses; (viii) small civil works; (ix) teaching aids; and (x) re-training
of redundant teachers.
Project Component 3 - USS OA3 million
Component 3. Strengthen MES' capacity for Project Management
Obiective: To provide support to project implementation and maintain general public informed about
reform program.
Sub-Component 3.1: Project Coordination Unit (PCU) ($0.43 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to support the operation a small unit to provide: (i) coordination
support to MES departments, various educational institutions and municipal authorities implementing the
Project; and (ii) implementation support in procurement, finance and administration according to World
Bank guidelines. This unit has already been created within the regular structure of MES and has been
implementing a PHRD Grant.
The PCU will support project implementation by ensuring that: (i) project activities are well coordinated;
(ii) necessary project inputs are provided in a timely and cost-efficient manner; (iii) project resources are
appropriately managed in accordance with Bank requirements for procurement and financial management;
and (iv) effective project monitoring and progress reporting is carried out.
The PCU will also be responsible for coordinating the systematic out-reach to the various stakeholders of
the Project. Specifically, it will (i) inform the general public, the teaching community and parents about the
goals and progress of the reform; and (ii) use this information and targeted messages to highlight the
-42 -



benefits and build support among key beneficiary groups. It will also be responsible for the development
and implementation of a campaign strategy over the life of the Project by strengthening the external
relations and communication capal)ility of the MES, running programs and advertisements on TV, radio
and in the newspapers and hosting public events and seminars.
The PCU would consist of five staff: director, engineer, coordinator, procurement specialist and
accountant. The unit would function within the MES, as an integral part of the MES, and it is envisaged
that it would complete its activities within six months of Project closing.
To support the implementation of ihe energy efficiency sub-component, MES and MOF will enter into an
implementation agreement with the Housing and Urban Development Foundation. HUDF will be
responsible for: (i) evaluation of investment projects for each schools; (ii) procurement planning; (iii)
preparation of TORs for detailed designed to be used by municipalities; (iv) support to municipalities in the
preparation of standard bidding documents; (v) review and evaluation of bidding documents, including
detailed design; (vi) no-objection tO bid procedures including bid evaluation reports and no-objection for
contract signature between municipalities and contractors; (vii) general monitoring of progress of works;
(viii) monitoring and tracking of financial transactions under the sub-component; (ix) payment of 50% of
particpating school contract costs ifrom the Special Account; and (x) participation, together with MES and
municipalities in the final review of works.
To ensure an effective execution of Project coordination activities, the Project will finance: (i) technical
assistance and training in project management, procurement, financial management and disbursements, and
utilization of key software programs; (ii) incremental operating expenses of HUDF and staff from the PCU;
(iii) essential office equipment and software; (iv) workshops and seminars; (v) development, production
and distribution of campaign materials, information handouts and booklets; (vi) production and
broadcasting of TV and radio programs and advertisements; (vii) surveys, focus groups and polls; and
(viii) incremental operating costs of the PCU including the cost of communications, interpretation and
translations, banking fees, transportation, office supplies, equipment maintenance, and audit fees.
-43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
1. Iimprovement of Teaching and Learning Envirornment     1.01          3.55         4.56
1.2 Education Quality Management System                    1.00          0.39         1.39
2.1 Energy Efficiency                                     31.49          0.00        31.49
2.2 Network Optimization                                   0.38          3.57          3.95
3.1 Project Coordination Unit                              0.40          0.00         0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                       34.28          7.51        41.79
Physical Contingencies                                     1.63         0.44         2.07
Price Contingencies                                       0.86          0.44          1.30
Total Project Costs'              36.77         8.39         45.16
Front-end fee                     0.25         0.25
Total Financing Required              36.77          8.64        45.41
Goods                                                        0.12          7.09          7.21
Works                                                       32.83           0.89        33.72
Consultants' services, Seminars and Publishing               3.82          0.41          4.23
0.00
Total Project Costs      36.77           8.39        45.16
Front-end fee                     0.25         0.25
Total Financing Required      36.77          8.64         45.41
Identifiable taxes and duties are 8.95 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 36.46 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing mtio is 69.64% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-44 -



Annox 4 Economic and Financial Analysis
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
Aligned with main identified ECA education sector priorities and the CAS, the Project aims at tackling two
key challenges of the education se.-tor in Lithuania: (1) improving the quality of teaching and learning in
basic education and (2) enhancing the efficiency of energy and capital resources utilization. Both are high
educational priorities of the Government of Lithuania, whose national education reform program explicitly
seeks to increase the quality of education and optimize the utilization of educational resources. The
Lithuania Education Improvement Project is the first one in the country's education sector since Lithuania
joined the Bank in July 1992.
The project has two main components: (1) Quality Teaching and Learning (representing 15% of total
project cost), including provision of teaching aids, teacher training, development communities of leamers
and improving the education management system; and (2) Efficiency in Resource Utilization (84% of total
project cost), including two distinct sub-components, energy efficiency and optimization of the school
network. Also some resources (1%,' of total project cost) are invested in a Project Coordination Unit to
enhance coordination and implemrentation support for the project.
The project will be financed by a S25.39 million World Bank loan (56% of the total cost of the project), by
the Central Government of Lithuania ($11.64 million or 25% of total cost) and Municipalities ($8.38 or
19% of cost).
Fiscal Impact:
The project is both affordable and sustainable for both the Central Government of Lithuania and Municipal
Governments. It has no significant fiscal impact over the national budget. It would represent between
+0.7% and -0.6% of total national. education budget, and, during the life of the loan, about 1.5% of the
central government (2000) educational budget.
The financial effect over municipal budgets should be insignificant during the first three years of the project
and after year 4 should actually pioduce recurrent cost savings of the order of 0.3% to 0.8% of the 2000
municipal educational budget.
Economic Analysis:
A preliminary economic analysis shows an intemal of rate of return (IRR) of 14.6% for the project.
Independent project components also show a favorable IRR: (a) 15.2% in the case of the Quality
component and (b) 14.5% for the overall Resource Efficiency component
The quality component should improve student achievement of intervened schools. Both the Efficiency and
the Quality components of the project are expected to generate significant extemal benefits in terms of an
increased future labor productivity of students. The efficiency component is also expected to produce
significant cost savings to society.
Background: Educational Challenges
Lithuania is on track to complete a successful transition to a market economy, consolidate its democratic
institutions and become a member of the European Union during the next decade. But in spite of these
great economic and political achievements, the future welfare of Lithuanian society depends critically on
successfully tackling some urgent education reform challenges. Quality of education is generally good in
Lithuania, but much remains to be done.
-45 -



In terms of quality, Lithuanian education requires improvements in its fit with the new, post-communist
economic and political contexts. Teaching methods and curriculum are being reformed to provide workers
and citizens with the knowledge, skills, values and attitudes required by open markets and societies. Quality
management could also be improved.
Nevertheless, the greatest obstacle today to the long-term improvement of educational outcomes is one of
efficiency. In education, inefficiencies are gross and widespread, including an uneconomical school
network, wanting infrastructure, and a sub-optimal input mix. Inefficiencies have combined with tight
fiscal realities and a declining student population to produce a crisis of school and municipal financing
(since the mid-I 990s local governments are responsible for over two-thirds of total educational
expenditure).
Capital investments have been delayed for years, including school amalgamation, renovation of buildings
and upgrading of energy systems. With an average national student:teacher ratio of 12, school expenditure
is biased towards salaries at the expense of teacher training, textbooks, teaching aids and equipment.
Teaching aids and materials are relative in short supply, hurting quality. Still, teacher salaries are low, a
situation that may hurt the future quality of Lithuanian education and that will persist under current
student-teacher ratios.
Finally, new inequities are setting in as the availability of critical educational inputs in public schools, and
hence education quality, becomes more and more dependent on families' capacity to pay. The Lithuania
Education Improvement Project directly tackles all of these challenges.
Bank Role and Strategy
The Lithuania Education Improvement Project is the first one in the country's education sector since
Lithuania joined the Bank in July 1992, after regaining independence from the Soviet Union. The project
aims at improving the level of educational achievement of students in basic schools (grades 5 to 10) by (a)
financing enhancements in teaching and learning in basic schools, including upgrading of teaching skills,
provision of teaching aids, creation of a virtual environment that sustains communities of leamers, and the
introduction of a modem education quality management system; and (b) improving efficiency in the
utilization of educational funds and resources, by optimizing the school network and renovating and
upgrading schools, including energy systems. The project advances the main goals of the education reform
agenda of the Govemment of Lithuania. It also conforms to the priorities of the World Bank Group, as
expressed in the Lithuania Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), but also in the Bank and ECA Region
Education Sector Strategies (ESS).
The project supports the priorities of the Government of Lithuania, whose national education reform
program has, since 1992, explicitly aimed at increasing the quality and optimizing the utilization of
educational funds with the purpose of improving national student achievement National priority is
currently given to the optimization of the school network, renovation and upgrading of schools, including
energy consumption, and enhancement of the education management system. The Ministry of Education
and Science (MES), as part of its efforts to improve the relevance, quality and equity of education in
Lithuania, would also like to see that teachers receive more and better training and that new, additional
teaching materials are developed and supplied.
The Project also conforms to the Lithuania CAS, as discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on May
11, 1999. The CAS strongly supports Lithuania's transition to a market economy, the consolidation of its
democratic institutions, and its bid for accession into the European Union. Key CAS objectives advanced
-46 -



by the project include: (a) To support macro-economic stability, mainlyfiscal sustainability and
discipline. Today, local budgets are overwhelmed by current educational expenditures. The project would
contribute to improve fiscal sustainability by improving and encouraging, in a sustainable manner, greater
efficiency in the use and allocation of educational resources-which represent 30% of total national public
outlays and almost 60% of total inunicipal expenditures. Much will remain to be done in this area though,
including confronting the challenge of a very low student-teacher ratio. (b) To support enhancements in
competitiveness and productivit' in both the private sector and rural areas, as well as by strengthening
governance. The project would make a critical, long-term contribution to improvements in private sector
competitiveness and work-force productivity. First, through sustainable investments in teacher training,
new materials and computers, that would improve alignment of the knowledge, skills and values taught in
schools with the demands of the new market economy. But also by facilitating better student performance
through improvements in the physical conditions of schools and classrooms. (c) To support sustainable
and cost-effective investments in education that improve efficiency, reduce poverty, expand access to
high-quality basic education, and consolidate democratic institutions. The project would support a more
efficient use of educational resources, including rationalization of the school network and upgrading of
infrastructure and equipment-all identified by the CAS as specific education sector priorities for
Lithuania-as well as improvements in the input mix by investing in teaching aids and equipment whose
costs, being shifted informally to parents, are hurting fairness and undermining educational quality for
poorer children. Teacher training would further advance the CAS objectives. In addition, the project
would build MES capacity to establish a modem system of education quality management that would
improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the public education system.
Finally, the project is consistent with the Bank and ECA ESS, which identify as main strategic educational
goals in ECA: (a) realigning education with the requirements of the new market economy and open society;
(b) improving access to quality education by making teacher training and teaching aids accessible to all
children; (c) ensuring sustainable finance and improving the efficiency of public resource expenditure; and
(d) enhancing the education system management.
Rationale for Government Finince of Basic Schools in Lithuania
The project supports public finartce of primary and secondary education. Lithuania has a long tradition of
public schools, with privately financed schools being only a recent phenomena that accounts for less than
1% of total enrollments. Public provision of free schooling is legally sanctioned in Lithuania. And there is
a compelling rationale for public financing of basic education based on both efficiency and equity grounds.
Efficiency considerations justify public financing of basic education. There are significant extemalities
associated with basic schooling that would not be captured by society if financing was left to families.
These include better citizens and lower crime rates, greater social cohesion, improved health, better
parenting, and so on. In addition, in Lithuania as elsewhere, families, particularly poor families, have
limited information about the benefits of education, a situation that leads to socially sub-optimal private
investment in education.
Public financing of basic education is also justified on equity grounds. If public financing of basic
education was left to the families of students, then not only there would be under-investment, but access to
education would be biased in favor of the rich, excluding the poor. A similar problem is increasingly
observed in Lithuanian public schools. Due to the absence of adequate public finance for teacher training,
textbooks and teaching aids, as well as materials and equipment, the burden for the provision of these
inputs is being shifted to families. As a consequence, the quality of the education received in becoming
increasingly dependent on family income.
-47 -



Although it is difficult to compute the monetary value of all the "non-market" benefits of basic education,
they provide a solid justification for its public financing. Still, the various previous arguments in favor of
public financing, do not serve as a justification forpublic provision of education. Creating new
institutional conditions that encourage the growth of private schools may lead to significant educational and
economic gains for Lithuania. These conditions do not exist today. The recent introduction of a new per
capita funding system of schools may eventually result in a significant increase in the share of privately
provided education that may improve efficiency without hurting equity. An increase in the number of
privately financed schools may also free significant public resources that would allow increased per student
investments in public education.
These issues, however, go well beyond the scope of this project and require an informed public debate
among Lithuanian society. For the time being, there are solid economic justifications for financing
investments in Lithuanian public basic schools.
Fiscal Impact
The project is both affordable and sustainable for both the Central Government of Lithuania and Municipal
Governments.
The project is financed by a $25.39 million World Bank loan (56% of total cost), by the Central
Govermment of Lithuania ($11.64 million or 25% of total cost) and the Lithuanian Municipalities, which
own and manage public schools ($8.38 or 19% of total cost). (See Tables 1 and 3.)
The project has no significant fiscal impact over the national budget or national education budget The
project impact represents a maximum of 0.7% of total national education budget on year 1, after which the
project expenditures are expected to represent between +0.5% and -0.6% of that budget. The fiscal
impact over the Central Government budget is also expected to be insignificant or, during the whole life of
the loan, about 1.5% of the central govermnent (2000) educational budget.
The financial effect over municipal budgets should be insignificant during the first three years of the project
and after year 4 should actually produce recurrent cost savings of the order of 0.3% to 0.8% of the 2000
municipal educational budget, representing between 12% and 40% of the average annual municipal capital
education budget since 1995. (See Table 2.)
Risks
The project fiscal impact is sensitive to a few reasonable assumptions that nevertheless will be necessary to
pay attention to, in particular: (1) the energy savings; and (2) the size of the reduction in staff due to
school consolidation/closing.
The energy savings may not have a direct impact over current expenditures as some municipalities may
today be accumulating debt rather than paying their utility bills and some schools are being heated at
substandard temperatures. Even in these cases, the impact will help secure the future financial position of
municipalities, assuming that this debt will have to be repaid some time in the future.
School consolidation/ closing is expected to lead to a reduction in the teaching and non-teaching force of
less than one staff per each basic school. In spite of the relatively small effect over staff that the
consolidation/closing of schools is expected to generate, the actualization of this assumption supposes a
political capacity and/or political will on the part of Municipal Governments that should not be taken for
granted. Currently teacher unions are relatively weak in Lithuania, as there is no centralized organization,
-48 -



but teachers are currently organizing to better advance their rights in a new free democratic environment.
Economic Analysis
A preliminary economic analysis shows an internal of rate of return (IRR) of 14.6% for the project.
Independent project components also show a favorable IRR: (a) 15.2% for the Quality T&L component
and (b) 14.5% for the Resource Efficiency component.
The efficiency component is expected to generate significant recurrent savings (see Table 5). Also, the
component should significantly better environmental conditions in schools and classrooms, including
adequate heating and ventilation, improved lighting and hygienic conditions, access for disabled children
and new libraries and laboratories.
The efficiency component is also zxpected to generate significant external benefits in terms of an increased
future labor productivity of students (see Annex 2, Table 1, as all of these are factors that both empirical
and theoretical educational research has consistently linked to improved student outcomes in developing
countries
The quality component is also expected to result in significant future labor productivity gains (see Table 5).
The link between teaching aids, teacher training, and other teaching materials and improved student
performance has been shown consistently by educational research. The relationship is particularly strong
in developing countries, where, a. in Lithuania, there is limited access to these resources on the part of
teachers and students.
Risks
The cost-benefit analysis of the project is sensitive to three assumptions that although conservative, will
nevertheless be necessary to pay attention to, in particular: (1) the work-force productivity gains
associated with the project; (2) the energy savings; and (3) the reduction in staff due to school
consolidation/closing.
The project assumes that each one of the two main components of the project will produce a one-shot 1%
increase in the future productivity of the students participating in the project. The productivity gains
associated with education reforms of this type are, of course, very difficult to forecast. More so in the case
of economies, such as Lithuania, where a transition from a centrally controlled society to a market economy
and democratic political system is underway.
This assumption seems reasonable according to current research on education production functions. A
substantial majority of that empirical work, as well as theoretical work, support the link between (a) better
facilities, including buildings and libraries, and (b) teaching aids and materials, and increased student
performance and work-force productivity. These relationships have, in general, been found to be
consistently significant and positive in developing countries. (For a summary of the main conclusions of
production function analysis in education, see Eric Hanushek, "Interpreting Recent Research oni Schooling
in Developing Countries," World Bank Research Observer, August 1995, 227-246.)
The energy savings have been assumed on the basis of the most current technical analyses and other
information available. However, consultants are being currently hired to carry out more definitive energy
audits (expected to be ready during the Spring of 2002), after which more exact energy savings would be
available. This analyses may also lead to significant changes in the distribution of costs within Component
2 of the Project, among other reasons because some of the interventions costed in the economic analysis
may eventually prove to be economically inefficient and hence not carried out.
- 49 -



As mentioned before, school consolidation/ closing is expected to lead to a reduction in the one staff per
each basic school. This assumes a political capacity or will on the part of Municipal Govemments that
should not be taken for granted.
Conclusion
The project, as designed, has no significant fiscal impact over central Govemment finances and a positive
effect over municipal finances. From an economic perspective, the project has a 'healthy' intemal rate of
return of 14.6%, and each individual component and subcomponent show similar levels of social
profitability. In addition, recently (but too recently to be incorporated into this analysis), some downward
revisions to some main project costs have been proposed by consultants that would increase even more the
social profitability of the project, particularly of the energy efficiency sub-component.
Table 1. CAPITAL DISBURSEMENT of PJCT by SOURCE
WORLD BANK LOAN                                2.7    7.1     7.2    8.4    25.4
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT                             1.4    3.4     3.6    3.2    11.6
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS                          1.1    2.7     2.7    1.9     8.4
- 50 -



Table 2. FISCAL IMPACT of LITHUANIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PJCT
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Capital*                                       1.4    3.7   3.0     1.7   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
WB Loan Repayment**                            0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   3.1    3.1    3.1   3.1
Other Project Expenditures                     0.3    0.4   0.5    0.5    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Recurrent Expenditures                         0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
ecurrent Savings                              0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMEN'S
apital*                          ~~~~~~~~~0.8  2.7  2.4  2.7  0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
Recurrent Expenditures                         0.1    0.6   1.1     1.4   1.9    1.4   4.1    1.4
Recurrent Savings***                           0.4    1.9   3.7     5.2   5.3    5.3   5.3    5.3
.j-  - =
_~~                                                                         ~        ~~~~ I-A
- - . . - _
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Capital*                                       0.0    0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
WB Loan Repayment**                           3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Other Project Expenditures                     0.0    0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Recurrent Expenditures                         0.0    0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Recurrent Savings                              0.0    0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS
0.0    0.0   0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Recurrent Expenditures                         1.4    1.9    1.4   4.1    1.4    1.9    1.4   4.1
Recurrent Savings***                           5.3    5.3   5.3     5.3   5.3    5.3   5.3    5.3
' '': . _ -                     I                   ,.-.; 
*Assumes central govemement and municipalities commit equal shares of capital to the project.
** Assumesl 5 year loan; 4 years grace period (2002-2005); interest rate = 5.5% fixed; FV = 0.
Repayment of the total of the loan by central govenmment.
Monthly payment =   ($3,085,466)
- 51 -



Table 2. FISCAL IMPACT of LITHUANIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PJCT (cont.)
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Capital*                                    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
WB Loan Repayment**                        3.1    3.1   3.1    3.1   3.1    3.1    3.1
Other Project Expenditures                  0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
Recurrent Expenditures                      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
Recurren  avings                            0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS
Capital*                                    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
Recurrent Expenditures                      1.9    1.4   4.1    1.4   1.9    1.4   4.1
Recurrent Savings***                        5.3    5.3   5.3    5.3   5.3    5.3   5.3
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Capital*                        ~~~~~~0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
WB Loan Repayment"*                         0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
Other Project Expenditures                  0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
Recurrent Expenditures                      0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
,Recurrent Savings                          0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS
Capital*                        ~~~~~0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
RecurrentSvns'                              5.3    5.3   5.3    5.3   5.3    5.3    53
_   ~     ~~~~~~~~~ .j.;- ..  . .                                 -.
***Schools are not currently paying the total utility bill, as they do not have sufficient financial resources
to do so. Services keeps flowing by law, but municipal schools are accumulating debt against
their unfulfilled obligations.
Note that negative numbers imply marginal savings of fiscal resources due to project financial savings.
- 52 -



Table 3. TOTAL COSTS OF ED IMPROV. PJCT BY SOURCE
TOTAL WORLD BANK                                           ,        a   .
World Bank                                  0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0%
World Bank Capital                          2.7   7.1     7.2    8.4   25.4   56%
TOTAL CENTRAL GOVERNMENT               I1
Central Government Capital                  1.4    3.4    3.6    3.2   11.6   26%
Other Central Government Costs         L    0.0   0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0%
MUlNICIPAL GOV. CAPITAL                      .     -      -,|            l
Table 4. DISTRIB. OF COSTS by PJCT COMP. & SUBCOMP.
Share
US$ Millions                             2002  2003  2004  2005 Total total
C 1: QUALITY T&L             _
SC1: IMPROV TEACHING & L]EARNING          0.4   0.9   1.2    2.6   5.1  11%
SC2: ED. QUALITY MANAGEMENT               0.2   0.4   0.6    0.3   1.5   3%
C2: RESOURCE USE EFFICIENCY
SCI: ENERGY EFFICIENCY                    4.7  10.9  11.0    7.7  34.3  75%
SC2: OPTIMIZ. SCHOOL NETVVORK             0.3   1.6   1.3    1.1   4.3   9%
C3: PROJECT MANAGEMENT                    -
- 53 -



Table 5: SUMMARY ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS
COMP I: QUALITY T&L           134,790    789,600  252,380 3,200,300      0        0
COMP II: EFFICIENCY          4,396,428 12,202,282 12,258,470 8,599,330   0        0
RECURRENT COSTS*
COMP I: QUALITY T&L                 0         0        0         0  512,000       0 2,718,40'
COMP II: EFFICIENCY            61,600   633,600  1,111,200  1,427,200 1,427,200 1,427,200 1,427,20
COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS
COMP I: QUALITY T&L           -134,790  -789,600  -252,380 -3,200,300 -266,000  861,000 -1,242,40-
COMPII: EFFICLENCY                  0         0        0         0       0        0
RECURRENT COSTS*
COMP I: QUALITY T&L                 0   512,000        0 2,718,400        0  512,000
COMP II: EFFICIENCY           432,000  1,905,110 3,701,970 5,174,830 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,55'
BENEFITS
RECURRENT SAVINGS             432,000  1,905,110 3,701,970 5,174,830 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,55'
PRODUCTIVTY GAINS                   0         0        0         0  492,000 1,722,000 2,952,00'
BENEFITS
RECURRENT SAVINGS            5,313,550  5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,55'
PRODUCTIVITY GAINS           3,813,000  3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,00'
-54-



Table 5: SUMMARY ECONOAMIC ANALYSIS cont
COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS
COMP I: QUALITY T&L                 0        0       0       0        0       0
COMP II: EFFICIENCY                 0       0        0       0        0       0
RECURRENT COSTS*
COMPI: QUALITY T&L                  0 2,718,400      0  512,000       0 2,718,400
COMP II: EFFICIENCY          1,427,200 1,427,200 1,427,200 1,427,200 1,427,200 1,427,200
COSTS
INVESTMENT COSTS
COMPI: QUALITY T&L           1,906,500 -811,900 1,906,500 1,394,500 1,906,500 -.811,900
COMP II: EFFICIENCY                 0        0       0       0        0       0
RECURRENT COSTS*
COMP I: QUALITY T&L            512,000       0 2,718,400     0   512,000      0
COMP n: EFFICIENCY           5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550
BENEFITS
RECURRENT SAVINGS            5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550
PRODUCTIVTY GAINS            3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000
BENEFITS
RECURRENT SAVINGS            5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550 5,313,550
PRODUCTIVITY GAINS           3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000 3,813,000
r  55 -



- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
Years Ending
(in USS'millions)
[  Year 1        Year 2    |  Year 3       Year 4        Year 5       Year 6       Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                  4.7          13.1          13.2         13.6          0.0           0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs                    0.1           0.1          0.2           0.1          0.0          0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs                  4.8          13.2         13.4         13.7           0.0          0.0         0.0
Front-end fee        0'.3           0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0
,Total Financing                      5.1         13.2          13.4         13.7          0.0           0.0         0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                          2.6          7.1           7.1           8.5         0.0          0.0           0.0
Government                        2.5           6.1          6.3           5.2         0.0          0.0          0.0
Central                       1.4          3.4           3.6          3.1          0.0          0.0          0.0
Provincial                    1.1          2.7           2.7          2.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Co-financiers                     0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0          o0.          0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries              0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0
Other                                0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0
Total Project Financing             5.1         13.2          13.4          13.7          0.0         0.0          0.0
Other                               01.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Main assumptions:
Project Components by Year - Totals Including ContUngencies
(USS '000)                                                              Totals Including Contingencies
2002      2003       2004      2005       Total
A. Improvement of Teaching and Leaming Environment
1. Teaching Aids                                              62.42     585.93     58.08   3194.16    3,900.59
2. Establishment of Virtual Environment                       32.75     189.27     49.39      69.99     341.40
3. Teacher Training                                           87.00     115.33     203.87    470.16     876.37
Subtotal Improvement of Teaching and Leaming Environment       182.18     890.53     311.35   3734.30   5,11836
B. Education Quality Management Syslem
1. Education information Management System                    15.14     120.26     83.58     193.61    412.58
2. Education Policy                                           83.36     126.25     89.73      50.95     350.29
3. Student Assessment                                         43.63      58.56     54.56      49.54     206.29
4. Extemal and Intemal Audit                                  82.27     149.52     143.26    144.98     520.02
Subtotal Education Quality Management System                   224.40     454.59     371.13    439.07   1,489.19
C. Energy Efficiency                                          4,260.31  10,739.90  10,921.64  7,857.81  33,779.66
D. Network Optimization                                         23.68   1.024.36   1.689.47   1,606.07  4,343.58
E. Project Coordination Unit                                   121.31      99.93     102.93    106.02     430.19
Total PROJECT COSTS (*)                                       4,811.89  13.209.30  13,396.52  13,743.27  45,160.98
() Does not include US$253.9 of front end fee in 2002
- 57 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
Procurement
The proposed project is an investment operation to be implemented over four years. The total project cost
is estimated at US$45.41 million, with Bank financing of US$25.39 million. Annexes 6A and 6B outline
the procurement and disbursement arrangements for the Project, which will be done under regular
investment operational procedures, and subject to the usual fiduciary requirements.
Procurement of goods and works financed by the Bank under the project would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in
January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant services
would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Procurement under the Project involves Goods, Works and Consultants' services for Technical Assistance
to the Borrower to implement five project sub-components. The biggest value share are the works covering
renovation of schools which will attract mostly interest of local contracts. However, if intemational
contractors wish to participate, they shall not be prevented from such participation.. A part of the works is
intended to serve as an improvement for schools included in the optimization program of school network.
Procurement of Goods includes mainly packages of buses and teaching aids.
The Borrower established Working Groups for implementation of each component. For the
sub-components of Improving of Learning and Teaching Conditions, Education Quality Management
System and Optimization of School Network the Borrower needs assistance of the experienced consultants.
While the responsibility for the tasks under these sub-components rests with the Borrower he intends to
employ consultants to advise on preparation of particular tasks.
Assessment of agency's capacity to implement procurement
The project shall be managed and administered by a Project Coordination Unit, which would operate under
the oversight of Ministry of Education. PCU shall be responsible for procurement for Sub-Components 1.1,
1.2, 2.2, and 3.1 and common packages for all Sub-Components such as public information and
interpretation. To get support to the implementation of the energy efficiency (Sub-Component 2.1), MES
will enter into an implementation agreement with the Housing and Urban Development Foundation.
Procurement Capacity Assessment was carried out at the Pre-appraisal stage of the Project.
Summary of the Procurement Plan The Procurement Plan has been prepared for each of Project five
sub-components. Packages for Goods, Works and Technical Assistance are provided in separate groups for
each sub-component. Additionally, two types of activities, namely public information and interpretation,
which are common for the whole Project, have been aggregated into larger packages. Detailed Procurement
Plan for the Sub-Component 2.1, Energy Efficiency, and which covers school renovation packages, shall be
prepared after the process of assessment of projects submitted by the selected schools have been completed.
The Procurement Plan will be updated annually and will require Bank's approval during project life.The
Operations Manual for the Project would be prepared by the PCU and made available to the Bank for
review prior to Board Presentation.
- 58 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement methods described below and their estimated amounts are summarized in Table A. Threshold
estimated contract values defining applicable procurement methods are indicated in Table B.
(a)    Procurement of Goods anid Works
Goods and works to be procured under the project include computers, school busses, teaching materials and
school renovations. To the extent ieasible for timely project implementation, packages would be bundled to
encourage the maximum level of competition. The following procurement procedures would apply:
* Goods that are over US$ 100,000 per package and Works that are over US$ 750,000 per package, would
be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures,
* Goods that are equal or below US$100,000 per package, would be procured using International Shopping
(IS) procedures, up to an aggregate of US$ 385,000,
- Goods that are equal or below US$50,000 per package may be procured using National Shopping (NS)
procedures, up to an aggregate of IJS$ 207,000
* Goods estimated to cost in aggregate US$ 49,000 will be procured by Direct Contracting for: (i) books
and publications; and (ii) software of proprietary nature.
* Works for school renovations equal or below US$ 750,000 per contract would be procured using National
Competitive Bidding procedure up to an aggregate amount of US$ 32.3 million. The procedures to be
followed for NCB shall be those set forth in the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Public Procurement,
13 August, 1996 No. I-1491 (as amended by 3 June, 1999 No. VIII-1210, 21 March, 2000 No. VIII-1577)
of the Republic of Lithuania with the following required for compliance with the Guidelines:
-  No preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders. Any regulations issued by a sectoral
ministry, provincial regulations and local regulations, which restrict national competitive bidding
procedures to a class of contrac-tors or a class of suppliers shall not be applicable to procurement
procedures under the Loan;
- When distributing standarcl bidding documents (SBD),
(i) only those SBDs deemed satisfactory to the Bank shall be distributed to eligible bidders; and
(ii) eligible foreign bidders shall be entitled to receive English translated SBDs at no addlitional
cost.
- Customs duties may be included in the foreign bidders' bids only for price comparison purposes.
- Bid prices, which are defined as disproportionately high or low, shall not be treated as a condition
for bid rejection except in justi[gable cases with' the Bank's prior concurrence.
-  Evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria, clearly defined in the bidding document
and not the decision of the Evaluation Committee which is based on a majority vote with open ballot,
and
-  Prelimninary order of bids and the reasons for bids rejection shall not be communicated to bidders
until the official decision for avard of contract has been made and approval of the recommendation for
award by the Bank in case of prior review.
Works estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregated amount not to
exceed US$ 1,450,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-priced contracts awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of works including basic specifications,
- 59 -



required completion date, a basic form of agreement ad relevant drawings where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
The works up to US$ 892,000, out of US$ 1,450,000, will include small renovation packages for schools
within the optimization program of school network and their implementation shall be planned during
preparation of the optimization program.
(b)    Selection of Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services include technical assistance to develop curricula, teachers' and training materials,
training as well as optimization of school network.
The following procedures are proposed:
* Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant contracts above US$
100,000.
* Consultant Qualifications (CQ) procedures will be used for consultant contracts up to US$100,000 per
contract to an estimated aggregate of US$ 320,000. A number of consultants' assignments shall be to assist
the Borrower in preparation of specific tasks, which include their preparation and later review and
adjustment. Therefore, these contracts to exceed the 18 months duration will require use of price
adjustment formulae.
* Individual Consultant (IC) procedures will be used for consultant contracts up to an estimated aggregate
of US$ 230,800,
- Single Source (SS) procedure will be used for a Contract up to US$ 18,200 to support the Borrower in
optimization of school and which is a continuation of earlier assignment during Project preparation,
* Audit services - over project life - would be procured using the Least Cost Selection Method (LCS) for
contracts up to US$ 100,000 per contract, to an estimated aggregate of US$ 85,300;
* Study tours up to an estimate of US$ 13,800 over project life. Study tours shall be procured as services
using Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ).
Prior review thresholds
The prior review thresholds are summarized in Table B.
Bank's prior review would be required for: (a) Goods and Works: (i) all ICB packages and all contracts
procured by direct contracting; (ii) the first two NS packages; (iii) the first two IS packages; (iv) the first
two NCB packages; (v) the first two works contracts based on three quotations; and (b) consultants'
services contracts: (i) all QCBS contracts; (ii) all LCS contracts; (iii) with individuals contracts above
US$ 25,000 and the first contract below US$ 25,000; (iv) first two contracts for CQ method. In case of
consultants' contracts, which are not subject to prior review, proposed short list, Terms of Reference, and
conditions and terms of Contract shall be submitted for the Bank's review and approval.
- 60 -



Procurement Plan
6. Estimated dates                      |
Pre-qualUSL  (BD/RFP)          Bid
1. Invitation  (ITQ/request  1. Invitation
Numbe Procure- GPNISPN/L                 GPN/SPN/11ocal
r of   met         ca        frDC
Item                        Description                     Type          ment       ocal       for DC)                    Contract    Contract
pas5ag MethoJ  2. Opening  1. Preparafton  2. Opening   signing   completion
3. Eval &               3. Eval & Roin
Recomn
Award
Cl. IMPROVING OF LEARNING AND TEACHING CONDrITONS
GOODS                                                    -_r_
G      I     ICB                  12/25102      01115/03     04/15/03    06/14/03
03/01/03
03/22/03
G     2      IC                   12/25/04      01/15/05     04115/05    06114/05
03101105
1  Teaching As                                                                                               03/22/ti5 _
T      5      IS                  03/03/05      03/17/05     05/01/05    06/15/05
03/31/05
_________   ___________     04/21/05   _
G      5     NS                   03/03/05      03/17/05     05/01/05    06115105
03/31105
04/21/05
G      1      IS                  05/20/03      06/03/03     07/18/03    09/01/03
2  Computer hardware                                                                                         06/17/03
___________      07108/03       _           _
G      1     ICB                  02/12/03      03/05/03     06/03/03    09/01/03
3  Software for virtual environment with Ikceces for schools                                                 04/19/03
_                                                                                                         05/10/03
4   Sofware upgrade for virtual environment                  G     2      DC                   07/18/04                   08/01/04    09/01/05
G      1     NS                   04105/03      04/19/03     06/03/03    09/01/03
5   Software for Intranet                                                                                    05/03/03
___________                  05/24/03
6  Software upgrade for Intranet                             G     2      DC                  07118/04        _           08/01104    09/01/05
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                           _                                                                     _
CS     2      CQ      09/04/02     09/04102      09/18102     10102/02    12/01/05
1Assistance in designing of tet3ching alds pzackages for schools                                           0450
and preparation of bidding documents                                                                      0902
designing of __   ach__r_ g aids_l____ es f_r schools  Cs__________                                09/30/02      __________
Prepa_tin of spec   donfbr btjal eriro  et wftwre andCS         1     CO      11103/02     11/03/02       11/17/02     12/01/02  12/31/2005
2   Preparation of specifalon for virtual en'lronment software and                                           1/40
a assistance In Implementation                                                                               11/24102
______________________________                    _________                    11~~~~~~~~i /29/02   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Assistance in preparatbon of training materials and tralnlngs on  CS  1  IC   08/04/02     08/0402        08/18/2      09/01/02    03/01/04
3  school management for school principals and local education                                               08/25/02
authorUties                                                                                               08/30102
CS     1       IC     07/04/04     07/0404       07/18/4      08/01/04    12/31/05
Assistance to school traIners In planning, oonducting and ri07/2/4
evaluating the school development progress                                                                07/25/04
__________ _07/30/04
5   Design of teaching aids packages for schDols                         NBF
Preparation of assumptons for virtual environment, and
6   supervision and monitoring of functioning and use of virtual         NBF
envtronment
7  Training for teachers                                                 NBF                                  _
Organization of training and workshops for school teachers and        NBF
groups of interest
9   Publishing                                                     3      NBF                                 _
- 61 -



C2. EDUCATiON QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SC 2.1 Education Managemnent Information Systemr
= GOODS
G      1      Is                  8R25/03       9/8/03      10/23/03     1/1/04
1  Computer hardware - servers                                                                            9t22/03
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  10/13/03
G      1     ICB                  9/11/04       10/2/04     12/31/04    311/05
2  Computer hardware - PC                                                                                 11/16/04
_   _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _         __                            _  _ _      12V7/04
_   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                    _     _
CS     I    OCBS      7/23/02     7123/02        8/6102      9/11/02     12/1/05
Preparation of the plan and assistance In execution of                                                 8/13/02
1 managernent Information needs assessment design and testing
of EMIS software with pliot data olWction.                                                             8/18/02
CS     1      CQ      5/26/03     5/28/03        6/9/03      711/03      12/1/04
2  Development of software application for EMIS                                                            6/16/03
______      _______         6/21/03
3  Data rellabillty check                                         1     NBF
4  Publishing                                                     5     NBF
5  Seminar/Worksahops                                                   NEF
C2. EDUCATiON QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SC 2.2 Education Policy Analysis
GOODS
i  Computer software                                       G            DC                   8/18/02                    9/1/02     11/1/02
2  Books and publications                                  G            DC                  as neededn
3  Computer hardware and office equipment                               NBF
4  Fumfture                                                             NBF
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                    =     =_=_=
CS     1      CQ      7/4/02       7/4102       7/18/02       9/1/02     3/1104
I  Training in conducting policy analysi andr monitoring                                                   8/1102
8/22/02
2  Reports on policy questons                             CS      6      IC                 as needed
CS            CQ      4/203        4I203        4/16/03       110/00      1/0/00
3  Study visits                                                                                            4/30/03
_                                                             _       _                                 5/21/03      5/31/03     3/1/04
4  Training, workshops                                            3     NBF
5  Publicaton of policy anatysis products                        4      NBF
- 62 -



C2. EDUCATION QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSI'EM
SC 2.3 Student Progress Assessment
GOODS
1  Software for test designing                               G      1      IS       7/4/02       7/4/02        7/18/02       9/1/02     10/1/02
_ ______________________________________________________                                                    8/1/02
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ 8122102
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CS     I      CO       7/4/02       7/4/02        7/18/02       9/1/02     6/30103
1  Provision of training to student assessment lest developers.                                                811/02
____________________________________________________ __ _  8/22V02
2   Preparation of research materials                                     NSF                        _
3  Preparation of technical reports                                       NBF                        _
4   Preparation of research reports and dissemlitlaton of results          NBF
5  Administration of test paralely TiMSS                                  N8F
8  Admlnistraion of test without TIMSS                                     NBF
7  Seminars, workshops                                       _            NBF
8   Publication of reports                                                 NBF        =            =          =   _              =-
C2. EDUCATION QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSI'EM
SC 2.4 Extemal and Intemal Audit System
=    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                    _______
CS     1      CO       7/4/02       7/4/02        7/18/02       9/1/02     12/31/05
training program, and uniform reporting                                                                     8/1/02
2   Preparation of methodology of extemal audit and training              NSF
program, and uniform reporting.
3  Tralning In implementation on extemal and tittemal audit               NBF
4  Workshops and traIning/Intemal audit                             1      NSF
5  Workshops and trainlnglextemal audit                                    NSF
6  Publishing of methodology guidelines                                   NBF
- 63 -



C3. ENERGY EFFICIENCY
WORKS
CW     57    NCB                  52N02        5/23/02       8/1/02     12/31/05
6120/02
7/11/02
1  Renovaion of sc'nools                               CW    10     MW                    63/02        6117/02      8/11/02    12/31/05
7/22/02
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEr
CS     2      CQ                   5/3/02      517/02        7/1/02    12/31/05
1  Evatuation of technical design docurnentation                                                           5/31/02
6/21/02
CS     2      CO                   5/3/02       5/17/02       7/1102    12/31/05
2  TA for monitoring of renovabon                                                                          5/31/02
6/21/02
3  TA for preparation of technical design documentation          64     NBF
4  HUDF fee                                                       I     NBF
5  Publishing of brochures                                              NBF
C4. OPTIMISATION OF SCHOOL NETWORK
WORKS
1  Minor school renovations                               CW     32     MW                  as needed
GOODS
I  School busses                                           G      3     ICB                  3/111/03       4/1/03      6/30/03     9/1/05
5/16/03
6/6/03
2  Teaching aids                                           =     10     NBF   Isneeded
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                        _           _                                      ________
4  Assistance In development of optimtzatlon of school network  CS  1   SS                   2/22/03                    3/15/03     9/15/04
and Iransportatlon methods
CS       1    IC  0'i     3       05/30/03      06113/03     07/04/03    12/31/03
Assistance in preparing uniformT reporUng format of savings and
its utilization                                                                                        06/20/03
IC                    ~      ~~~~~~~06/25/03
CS     1      CO                  7/19/05        8/2/05       1/0/00      1/0/00
6 |Preparalon of the impact study of the pilot                                                              /16/05      9/1605     12/15/05
7  Development of optmization methodology and transportation            NBF
method                                                            I
P8 reparation of uniform reportng format of savings and its             NSF
iublIzatlon                                                       I                                                          1
9 |Trainlng, wortshops, study visits                                    NBF  il          |             i             i____                   i
10 Re-training teachers                                  1        1     NSF    _           _                           _          _____
1   Publishing                                                    4     NBF    _           _________
64 -



C5. PCU
_ _ GOODS__                                                                     _  _ __                 _  _ _      _ _  _ _
1  Finandal Management System software                           1     NBF
2  Office materials and supplies                                       NBF                     _
=    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                   =__
CS     4     LCS     08/1502     08/15/02      08/29/02     01/02/03   12/31/05
3  Finandal Audit                                                                                        09/05/02
________________________________________________  ________                  09/10/02
_    OPERATING COSTS 
4  Programme Dlrector                                                  NSF
5  Procurement Officer                                                 NBF                                       _
6f Accountan/Flnance Manager                                           NBF                     _
7  Office Manager                                                      NBF
8   Engineer                                                           NBF
Z ____                                                                           _=
COMMON FOR ALL COMPONENTS
=    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                   =_=__
CS     2    QCBS      8/1/02      8/15S02       9/15102     12/19/02   12/31/05
1  Public Information                                                                                    11/21/02
- .   -   -   ________   _________   ~11/28/02   _   _ _   _ _ _ _  _
2  Interpretaton                                          CS    10     IC                 as needed     =     _     _
Notes:
Procurement methods for goods and works:
ICB   Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB - National Competitive Bidding
MW - Selection based on three quotations
IS    Intematdonal Shopping
NS - National Shopping
Methods for selection of consultants:
OCB! - Quality and Cost Based Selection
LCS   Least Cost Selection
CO - Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
IC - Selecrion of Individual
SS - Single-Source Selection
Other Procurement
NBF - Not Bank Financed procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Workxs                                           0.00                  32.29                1.44               0.00             33.73
(0.00)                 (16.51)              (1.01)             (.00)           (17.52)
2. Goods                                            6.21                   0.00                0.64               0.35              7.20
(6.21)                 (0.00)               (0.64)             (0.00)           (6.85)
3. Services                                         0.00                   0.00                1.01               3.21              4.22
incl. TA & Seminars and                            (0.00)                 (0.00)              (0.77)             (0.00)            (0.77)
- 65 -



Publishing                   l_l_|_l_l_                                                           l
0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00            0.00          0.25         0.00        0.25
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.25)        (0.00)     (0.25)
Total                            6.21            32.29         3.34         3.56       45.40
(6.21)         (16.51)        (2.67)       (0.00)     (25.39)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, training and,
technical assistance services.
- 66 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
I_ ; -J                 o,<i,.- 8  - 'I-_S
A. Firms              0.36    0.00   0.00    0.09    0.32    0.00    2.00     2.77
(0.29)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.07)  (0.25)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.61)
B. Individuals        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    1.21     1.45
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.16)  (0.00)  (0.16)
Total  0.36    0.00    0.00   0.09    0.32    0.24    3.21     4.22
( (0.29)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.07)  (0.25)  (0.16)  (0.00)  (0.77)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Baised on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single
Source, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 67 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                        >750                     ICB                 all contracts
<750                    NCB                first two contracts
<50            Based on three quotations  first two contracts
2. Goods                        >100                     ICB                 all contracts
DC                   all contracts
<100                     IS               first two contracts
<50                     NS                first two contracts
3. Servicesincl.                >100                    QCBS                 all contracts
TA & Seminars and               <100                    LCS                   all contracts
Publishing                      <100                     CQ                first two contracts
SS                  all contracts
>25                     IC             all above the threshold and
the first contract regardless
of the value.
For all contracts not under
full prior review, short list,
TOR, and conditions and
terms of contracts shall be
subject to prior review.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  9 million USD
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
In addition to indicated prior reviews, it is proposed that a project launch mission, including a
procurement supervision mission, be effected after Board presentation to ensure full
administration functioning. Full procurement missions should be conducted thereafter biannually
to monitor progress and carry out post reviews of procurement actions. Such post-review field
analyses should cover a random sample of not less than 20 percent of contracts signed during the
prior year. As the PAS is based in Budapest, the aim would also be to have PAS support
available periodically on an as-needed basis, in addition to regular supervision missions.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 68 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
LITHUIANIA: Education Improvement Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Country Financial Management Issues
Currently there is no CFAA for Lithuania on which to base the assessment of inherent risk. There are two
areas in the CAS Upstream Mema (Feb. 28, 2002) that give indications of the inherent risk and these are to
be found in the context of country economic development and public sector administration capacity.
Country Economic Development Risk:
1. Lithuania faces few risks in the medium term. However, even though these are negligible at the
moment, the situation may change due to internal or external shocks. First to mention would be
internal political risks and willingness to maintain the appropriate speed of reforms. While until
now Lithuania has been able to keep policy continuity, some reforms were delayed due to changes
in political leadership. The delay of structurl reforms and requirements for EU accession may
have negative consequences for country's competitiveness in the European Union and the
membership itself.
2. There is also a risk that Lithuania's economic growth will not reach the level needed for successful
integration into European Union and a gradual increase in income levels. Traditional export sectors
will become less competitive while new, high-technology sectors will not develop. An aging
population will increase pressure on public finances. The growth would be 4-5 percent instead of
6-8 percent.
3. As a small open economy which is highly dependent on intemational trade, Lithuania has an
exposure to extemal shoclks. An economic slowdown in the major trade partners may diminish
export growth rates. Lithuania might also be affected by adverse economic developments in its
major investment partners, especially Nordic countries. An example would be the banling sector
which is currently controlled by Swedish banks.
Public Sector Administrative Capacity:
1. The administrative capacity of the country has been improved to large extent, but most of the
progress has taken place at national level, and the large gap between national and municipal levels
is not narrowing. The government sees fiscal decentralization together with capacity building
within municipalities as key issues.
2. The civil service and govermance are being reformed but the civil service compensation system is
still not good enough to atract qualified employees. A new law on civil service is on its way, and
Canadian assistance in govemance has been helpful in establishing procedures.
3. According to the Bank publication Anti-Corruption in Transition, Lithuania is among the best
performners in the region in state capture, but administrative corruption is relatively high. It is one
of the first transition countries which approved anti-corruption strategy. Special Investigation
Service is very active in the field and receives large amounts of TA mainly from EC. The anti
corruption efforts so far are mainly concentrated on enforcement, parts of the strategy dealing with
roots of corruption are of more declarative nature.
Conclusion: While there seems to be a small risk that the economic development of the country could have
any direct influence in the project, there is a larger risk that administrative capacity at the municipal level
- 69 -



will influence implementation of the project in a negative way. Further, public sector salaries could be too
low to attract qualified staff to the project. Finally, even though general corruption is low, administrative
corruption is relatively high.
Risk Analysis
Risk                         Risk Rating   Risk Mitigating Measures
Inherent Risk
Country Financial Management               See Country Financial Management Issues (above)
Risk
Project Financial Management  M            This is a complex project involving 65 schools with
Risk                                       varying need and risk profiles in 60 different
municipalities with varying risk profiles. The main risk
is the municipalities' inability or lack of incentive to
contribute their part of the project financing. To
counteract this, it has been decided that each
municipality must implement its part of the project in full
to qualify for the next stage, which is receiving
state-financed grants. It is only when the state-financed
grants have been fully disbursed that the funds from the
World bank Loan will be used.
Perceived Corruption         M-S           Strengthened internal control systems. All persons
dealing directdy or indirectly with funds have been
identified as far as the WB funds are concerned. Actions
have been taken to make sure that there is a satisfactory
segregation of duties (see attached Project Accounting
Procedures).
Overall Inherent Risk        M-S
Control Risk
Implementing Entities        M             The PCU is a newly-created organization within an old
public sector organization. Factors such as salary
structure etc. could cause difficulties. Careful
monitoring of personnel job satisfaction and salaries will
be needed.
Fund Flow                   M              Even though significant actions have been proposed to
make sure that counterpart contributions will be fully
disbursed before the WB funds are used, there is a clear
risk in the day-to-day operations of late payments. This
could lead to delays in implementation. HUDF would
play an important role in closely supervising this process
to make sure that actions are taken before serious delays
- 70 -



have occurred.
Staffing (PCU)               S             There is only one PCU accountant. As usual there is a
risk that this person will be recruited by another
company offering a higher salary. In any event, a
back-up needs to identified and trained to cover for
vacation, sickness, and personal days. One option would
be to use experienced project accountants from the
HUDF or to identify a qualified staff within MES Supply
Center.
Staffing (HUDF)              M             The implementation of sub-component 2.1 will be
supported by HUDF, a governnent agency reporting to
the MoF. This agency is well-run, and has experience
from implementing similar types of energy efficiency
projects. It has close contacts with all the municipalities
in the country. HUDF has also implemented previous
WB-financed projects. HUDF has sufficient staff for
this assignment, including accounting and financial
management.
Accounting Policies and      M             FM Manual is under preparation and will be completed
Procedures                                 before Board Presentation. The manual will be used for
whole Project but it is mainly directed at the PCU and
IHUDF. The manual contains detailed project accounting
procedures identifying where and by whom the different
sub -tasks will be executed. It also contains rules for the
Chart of Accounts for the Project and "hands-on"
instructions for entering different transactions. Detailed
job descriptions are also included.
External Audit               M             This is a geographically widespread and complex project
and source documents will be spread throughout the
country. The source documents for the WB funds will
be stored at the PCU and the HUDF. Source documents
for the funds coming from the Government will be stored
at the MOF. Similarly, source documents for municipal
funds will be stored by each one of the 58 municipalities.
Copies of all source documents from all sources will be
kept at the PCU. There will be clear audit trail to the
original source documents.
Reporting and Monitoring    M              The firm that will provide the accounting software to the
PCU will set up the accounting system and prepare all
the necessary reports. The firm will also coach the
Accountant until fully trained
Once the accounting system for the PCU is in place, the
- 71 -



Information Systems          M
information requirements for project accounting will be
satisfactory. The new accounting system at the PCU
together with the existing system at the HUDF will be
satisfactory for the financial management tracking of the
Project. As far as the infrastructure sub-component 2.1
is concerned, the HUDF infonration system even gives
real time overviews of the implementation. However,
seeing the Project as a whole, it needs to be stressed that
the geographical size and complexity in combination with
weak IT could constitute an internal problem.
Overall Control Risk         M
H-High        S- Substantial      M - Moderate        N - Negligible or Low
Comment L. The overall control risk is moderate. This rating is mainly due to the large number of
activities contemplated in the Project, which could make it difficult to coordinate. Therefore, the
PCU and HUDF would need to be properly staffed and equipped to make sure that resources are
used in an economic and efficient manner.
Comment II. There is an obvious risk that satisfactory segregation of duties will be difficult to
achieve within the PCU. There are only five persons assigned to the unit and while they are
well-qualified and experienced it will be difficult to maintain segregation of duties. There is only
one accountant on the staff, for instance. This risk should be taken into consideration by the PCU
when identifying the persons preparing, reviewing and authorizing all project-related accounting
activities (see "Generic Project Accounting Procedures" attached to the Flow of Funds). If it
appears that satisfactory segregation of duties will not be possible with the current staff size, new
recruitment must take place or personnel assigned on a part-time basis from other units at the
MES. The issue of segregation of duties at the PCU should be discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations.
Strengths and Weaknesses
As significant strength is the proposal that counterpart funds should have been fully disbursed before Bank
funds can be requested. The anticipated effect is that there will be to increase the incentive for
municipalities to contribute with their own financing as they cannot expect state or Bank funds to replace
their own lack of financing. Further, the financing plan is expected to reduce delays in implementation on
the part of the municipalities for either real or tactical reasons as municipalities causing delays for
unjustifiable reasons will have their designated school removed from the list of selected schools to be
replaced by another school from another municipality.
With regard to Sub-Component 2. 1, this is an infrastructure Sub-Component and therefore by its nature
tangible and easy to monitor. Further, it would be implemented by the HUDF which is a government
building consultancy with extensive experience and competence. HUDF has both technical and financial
expertise on staff with experience from implementing World Bank-financed projects.
The following weaknesses need to be addressed before the Project is taken to the Board:
- 72 -



Weakness                                  Resolution
Only one accountant at the PCU            A back-up for the accountant needs to be
identified.
Satisfactory segregation of duties at the PCU  Assignment of specific job tasks to specific
people. This issue needs to be addressed in the
Financial Management Manual.
Implementing Entities The implementation of the project will be carried out by a number of entities of
which the Ministry of Education and Science has the overall responsibility through its newly-created
Project Coordination Unit. The Ministry of Finance through its agency HUDF will also play a major role
in the implementation of Sub-Component 2.1. There will be a Project Oversight Committee with members
drawn from the educational system and the private and public sector. The actual implementation of the
project will be carried out by counties, municipalities, schools and teachers.
The PCU's responsibilities are as follows:
* overall project coordination;
* consolidating the annual activities' plan;
* preparation and administration of the annual project budget;
* submission of project activities and monitoring reports to the POC;
* administration of project contract and procurement according to the World Bank guidelines;
* managing financial systems for project expenditures;
* monitoring project budget iimplementation and financial operations;
* ensuring that annual project audits are carried out;
* producing annual monitoring and evaluation reports of project activities;
* liaising with World Bank, other organizations and interested parties; and
* maintaining appropriate re,ord systems
Agreements with Mayors or head administrators of the municipalities, as appropriate, will be signed
outlining the mutual responsibilitie:s of all parties to the implementation process. Relevant reports and
documentation will be shared with the participating parties.
The HUDF's responsibilities are:
* to manage the implementalion of Sub-Component 2. 1;
* to track all expenditures for Sub-Component 2.1 irrespective of whether the funds used are from
the World Bank, the Government, or the Municipalities;
to be in charge of the World Bank Special Account used for payments for Sub-Component 2. 1;
* to ensure that all payments from this Special Account are eligible in accordance with Loan
Agreement; and
* to administrate all project contracts for Sub-Component 2. 1; and
* to initiate direct payments from the main Loan Account.
The HUDF has procedures and software for tracking costs at different levels of aggregation such as the
individual building, the individual mnunicipality, and clusters of municipalities.
Comments: This is a very large project both geographically and in scope and will require a great
deal of coordination. It is likely that very few people will have an overview of all the
- 73 -



sub-components right down to the basic level of the individual schools. This issue is significant for
billing, signing-off on bills, etc,.
Flow of Funds
Lithuania
Education Improvement Project
Flow of Funds and Documents
World Bank                       M r--   MinLstry of Edu ation
6A
toan    | '     @   Supply   L     Ct Coordination
Depatmnent |j     ,    Center    _    Unit     ' 
D al n I  I ,       . 4D  '            |  r_         The Housing
. --- ----- 7-  6 - -    ' ----X   --T-       ------    <      _       adT,a
__ \ j7 / ^ ^^ ~~~~~~~~~Development
-6B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I3
I  ii~~~~~~~B
-l 74p<  /, -  /-- -->.   ' 3B      Fonndation
5Dcil                                                                  --- sleil  1--   1:11  --'-'-'
Providerls of  //I
Consulting  r /                                 1         7    r     \ II;-; PlI
Serv., Works                                            II , A 1/I:ii
and Goods for L_7( 1 l
1,2,4,5                                   Consultn9
- 74 -



Descriptions:
Payments from the Municipality's Own Funds:
i. The consultant submits an invoice to the Municipality, where it is checked against the contract
and a payment order is prepared. The payment order is sent to the bank for payment to the
consultant. Copies of invoices are sent to HUDF for their files and entry into their financial
management system. HUDF forwards a copy of the paid invoice to PCU for their infonnation
and files.
ii. The contractor submits an invoice to the Municipality. The Municipality in close cooperation
with the consultant checks that the works for which the contractor has invoiced the Municipality
has been completed in .ccordance with the contract. If the invoice corresponds with the contract,
completion report, statement of works, etc., the responsible persons (the Technical Engineer,
Civil Works Department, etc.) sign off. The payment order is prepared, sent to the
Municipality's accounting department to be entered into the accounting system, and to the bank
for payment. One copy of the payment is also sent to HUDF for their records and entry into the
Financial Management system.
iii HUJDF is responsible f)r tracking all payments and therefore enters the inforrnation into their
project database, retains copies of all necessary documentation and sends PCU one copy of all
documnents.
Payments from the State Budget:
iv Invoices for sub-components 1.1, 1.2, 2.2 and 3.1 will be sent to the PCU for review and
approval. Invoices for sub-component 2.1 are presented to the Municipality who handle them in
the same manner as in #ii above. The invoice is then sent to HUDF for review and data entry
and forwards it to PCIJ with all the necessary documentation. PCU reviews and approves all
invoices and forwards them to the Supply Center for processing where a request for payment is
prepared. The Supply Center processes the invoices and a request for payment is issued which
is approved by the Director of PCU. After the approval, the invoices are taken to the bank for
payment to the concerned parties.
Payments from the World Bank Special Accounts:
v The contractor submits an invoice to the Municipality. The Municipality reviews and processes
this invoice in exactly the same way as they handle their own invoices under item #ii. The
invoice is thereafter sent to HUDF for further review and processing. HUDF makes sure that the
invoice is in agreement with the contract and other formal agreements but do not carry out
inspections in site. HUDF then prepares the payment order from the bank holding the Special
Account, and updates ihs Financial Management database. A copy of the invoice and other
documents are sent to the PCU. The original is to be kept by HUDF.
The providers of goods, works and consultants submit invoice to PCU for review, approval and
processing. A paymeni order is prepared from the bank holding the Special Account which
makes payment to the vendors and consultants.
Paymentfrom the World Bank's Loan Account in Washington:
vi All withdrawals (replenishment of the Special Accounts and direct payments) from the World
Bank Loan Account will be the responsibility of the PCU.
Staffing. The PCU has five staff in place: the Director, Project Coordinator, Engineer, Accountant and a
Procurement Specialist. The accountant has been in place since April 2001. Identification of Procurement
- 75 -



Specialist is under way. Under the project, the Project Director will have the overall responsibility for the
project implementation while Project Manager will lead the day-to-day work. With regard to financial
management, the Accountant will be responsible for all accounts related activities including preparation of
all the necessary Bank required reports.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. The PCU will be using a separate project accounting system not
connected to the MES's own accounting. The TOR for the accounting software has been sent out to a
number of potential vendors with the required experience of World Bank-financed projects. The PCU
accounting system will be designed to manage all the World Bank FM reporting requirements.
During appraisal project accounting procedures were designed (see annex). These procedures aimed at
identifying all job tasks in the project accounting cycle and individuals carrying out these tasks. The job
tasks were designed to achieve segregation of duties within the staff. The PCU is a newly-created unit and
does not therefore have any existing financial management manual.
A first draft of the Financial Management Manual (for the entire Project but with emphasis on WB
disbursements) is under preparation by the PCU but needs to be complemented with a number of additions
(the Flow of Funds including project accounting procedures, the segregation of duties, the authorization
process, document storage, reporting, etc.). During appraisal it was agreed that generic accounting
procedures will be adjusted to the circumstances of this particular project. It is important that the PCU
makes sure that the segregation of duties within the unit is satisfactory. This means that there should be
clear divisions of responsibilities between those persons authorizing a transaction, recording the
transaction, and maintaining the assets involved in the transaction. The functions of ordering, receiving,
accounting for, and paying for goods and services should be appropriately segregated. It was agreed that
the Bank will make a detailed review of the Financial Management Manual and amend it as necessary. The
amended Manual will be sent to the PCU for their input. The Financial Management Manual is being
completed and approved by the Bank prior to Board Presentation.
The Financial Manual also needs a section about budgets containing detailed instructions on to set and
monitor physical and financial targets. The budgets should be sufficiently detailed to provide a meaningful
tool with which to monitor performance. The reporting categories in the FMRs and other monitoring
reports should be the same.
2. Audit Arrangements
The PCU is a newly-created and is therefore has not previously implemented any Bank-financed projects
The project audit will include (i) an opinion on the project financial statements (including the Statements of
Expenditures, SOEs), and (ii) an opinion on the compliance of the Bank guidelines for the Special
Account(s). The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing (ISA) and
carried out by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. This means an auditor who is a member of a body
affiliated with the International Federation of Accountants (WFAC).
The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by each project
implementation agency and the due date for submission.
- 76 -



Audit Report                              Due Date
Entity                                    NA
Project                                   June 30
SOE                                       June 30
Special Accounts (2)                      June 30
Other (specify)                           NA
Reporting and Monitoring. It ha; been agreed that the project will use the new Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) for the quarterly reporting. The mission gave a copy of "Financial Monitoring Reports
for World Bank-Financed Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers, November 30, 2001". The reports to be
used are:
*   Discussion of Project Progress
*   Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
*   Uses of Funds by Project Activities
*   Physical Progress Report lphysical outputs, preferably used for Sub-Component 2.1)
*   Physical Progress Report (status of services, preferably used for Sub-Components 1. 1, 1.2, 2.2
and 3.1)
*   Procurement Monitoring Report
The reporting required for the management of the project, such as the follow-up work for each one of the
58 Municipalities should be designed by the PCU. The software vendor selected to implement the
accounting software will use the proposed reporting format when designing the Chart of Accounts for the
project as well as the format of the: individual reports.
Information Systems The PCU bas prepared Terms of Reference, including an annex specifying software
requirements. This will be sent to the number of potentially interested vendors. It will be a requirement for
Board Presentation that the accournting software has been installed and tested and that the project
accountant at the PCU and a back.up (from either HUDF or the Ministry of Education) have been trained.
However, the PCU should consider hiring a second accountant to assist in the accounting work of the
project, and this second accountant would then trained, thereby removing the need for an external back-up.
With regard to data security, it has been agreed that the PCU and the HUDF will keep the source
documents for payments from the World Bank Loan in a fireproof steel cabinet. It was also agreed that the
PCU will regularly make back-up copies of information in the accounting system and store this in a place
separate from the accounting workplace.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Most of the World Bank disburserment will be through the two Special Accounts: one for Sub-Component
1.1, 1.2, 2.2 and 3.1 and another SA for Sub-Component 2.1. The PCU will be in charge of all contacts
with the Loan Department of the-World Bank, which means that they will responsible for all withdrawals
from the Loan Account and payments from the Special Account for Sub-Components 1.1, 1.2, 2.2 and 3.1.
However, the MoF and MES has agreed that HUDF would be in charge of payments from the Special
Account for Sub-Component 2.1
Action Plan. The following table lists the actions to be taken in order to satisfy the Bank's fiduciary
- 77 -



financial management requirements.
Action                      Responsible Person          Completion Date
Accounting Information System  PCU Director             Prior to Board Presentation
for the PCU
Financial Management Manual PCU Director                Prior to Board Presentation
Identification of qualified staff  PCU Director        During Negotiations
at the PCU to monitor financial
management job tasks
Supervision Plan. Supervision will be most intensive during the first 6 - 8 months of the project
Supervision should concentrate on basic financial management procedures to make sure that the financial
management manual is used properly. It would be important that both the Flow of Funds and Documents
follow the Agreed Upon Procedures.
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Civil Works, Design and Supervision        15.64                      100%
Services for Sub-Component 2.1 of the
project
Small civil works, Design and              0.66                         82%
Supervision Services for
Sub-Component 2.2 of the project
Goods, Vehicles                            6.12           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory cost.
82% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants' Services, Seminars and        0.73                         82%
Publishing
Premia for Interest Rate Cap and           0.00           Amount due under sec. 2.09(c) of the
Interest Rate Collar                                               Loan Agreement
Unallocated                                1.99
Total Project Costs                        25.14
Front-end fee         0.25
Total                                      25.39
(*) Note: No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for civil works, desing and supervision for
sub-component 2.1 unless the Bank is satisfied that the financial contribution amounting to approximately 50% of
the total cost of each Subproject for Part C from the Municipalitv and MES has been fully utilized
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Project will disburse in accordance with the Bank's traditional disbursement procedures outlined in the
Bank's "Disbursement Book". Expenditures on all contracts not subject to Bank prior review and approval
will be claimed on the basis of SOEs. SOEs may therefore not be used for any expenditure related to a
- 78 -



contract requiring prior review. Based on the prior review limits, the SOE limits are set at: <$ 100,000 for
consultant firms; <$25,000 for consultant individuals; <$100,000 for goods; <$750,000 for works (if any);
and for all operating costs and training expenditures. Documentation in support of SOEs will be retained
at the Project Coordination Unit for review by Bank supervision missions and independent auditors.
The minimum value for direct payment applications and issuance of special commitments is $180,000 for
PCU/MES and $360,000 for HUI)F. Direct disbursement could be used for the purchase of school buses.
Special account:
In order to facilitate Loan disbursements, the Government of Lithuania will establish two Special Accounts
(SA): MES SA for Sub-Components 1.1, 1.2, 2.2 and 3.1 (maintained by the PCU), and HUDF SA for
Sub-Component 2.1 (maintained by HUDF) in the Bank of Lithuania. The authorized allocation for the
MES SA would be EURO 1,000,C)00 and for HUDF SA - EURO 2,000,000. However, during the initial
stage of the project, an amount limited to EURO 500,000 will be deposited in the MES SA and amount
limited to EURO 1,000,000 in HIJDF SA. When the aggregated amount of disbursement reaches EURO
5,000,000, the amount deposited in the MES SA will be increased to the full authorized allocation of
EURO 5,000,000; in case of HUDF SA - the amount will be increased to the full authorized allocation of
EURO 9,000,000. All expenditures whose value is less than 20% of the authorized allocation must be paid
through the Special Account. Withdrawals from the Special Account will be authorized by representatives
to be named by the Borrower.
- 79 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
*                               a
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24                           30
First Bank mission (identification)             11/05/1999                   11/05/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     07/17/2001                   02/11/2002
Negotiations                                    10/09/2001                   04/24/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/20/2002                   07/17/2002
Prepared by:
The Ministry of Education and Science. The preparation of each of the sub-components was the
responsibility of working groups that were specially established for this purpose. These groups were staffed
by professionals from MES working under the coordination of a team leader. They received technical
assitance provided by consultants hired either under a Japan Grant or directly financed by Finland. A Project
Steering Committee composed of the Deputy Minister, the Director of the General Education Department and
the leaders working groups, was established to guide the preparation of the project. A Project Coordination
Unit was also established to support the working groups and to liaise with the World Bank.
Preparation assistance:
A Japan PHRD grant for US$198,524 (TF026359) was made available to support project preparation. The
resources from this grant were mainly used for conducting background studies to support the preparation of
the energy efficiency sub-component and stakeholders consultation. In addition the Government of Finland
provided direct financing to consultants who provided technical assistance for the preparation of the teaching
quality and the school network optimization sub-component. The Government of Spain funded an initial
feasibility study for the energy efficiency sub-component and a Finnish expert on energy efficiency.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Fredrick L. Golladay              Education Economist
Peter Darvas                      Education Economist
Ilona Szemzo                      Operations Officer
Dorota Holzer-Zelazewska          Research Analyst
Eszter Kovacs                     Procurement Specialist
Elzbieta Sierninska               Procurement Specialist
Karl Enar Wennerstrom             Financial Analyst
Erlendas Grigorovic               Communications Specialist
Yael Duthilleul                   Education Specialist
Hiwote Tadesse                    Program Assistance
Richard James                     Consultant
Emesto Cuadra                     Program Team Leader
Ana Maria Jeria                   Human Development Specialist
- 80 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LITHUAkNIA: Education Improvement Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Description of the project, its coniponents and project procedures including procurement and financial
management. Prepared by MES
Operational Manual for the energy efficiency sub-component describing roles and responsibilities of MES;
HUDF and municipalities
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Strategy for Increasing the Efficiency of Space Utilization in Schools. MES, Vilnius, 2001
Research on the Renovation Feasibility of Comprehensive Schools Buildings in Lithuania. MES, Vilnius
2000
Do all Lithuanian Pupils have eqrual opportunities to obtain secondary education? Analysis offinal
examination results in 2000. Educational Study Centre of the Open Society Fund, Vilnius, 2000
Is Comprehensive Education of Pupils in Lithuania Equal Ranking? Analysis of results of basic school
graduation examinations in the year 2000. National Examination Centre under contract with the Centre of
Education Studies of the Open Society Fund. Vilnius, 2001
Education policy history within education statistics. Education Study Center under Open Society Fund
2001, Vilnius
The Cost of Non-A ttendance at 5chools and Keeping Pupils in the Same Form for a Second or a Third
Year. Violeta Rimkeviciene. Education Studies Centre of the Open Society Fund. Vilnius, 2001
Regional Differences in Education. Rimantas 7elvys, Centre of Educational Studies of the Open Society
Fund-Lithuania,
Vilnius, 2001
*Including electronic files
- 81 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millons                             disbursements
Projed ID     FY   Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frn Rev'd
P063656       2002 VILNIUS DIST HEAT                               17.10      0.00                 0.00      0.00     16.93       0.67      0.00
P068706       2001 SAL 2                                           98.50      0.00                 0.00      0.00     47.77      49.43      0.00
P035760       2000 HEALTH                                          21.24      0.00                 0.00      0.00     19.32       5.30      0.00
P035776       2000 KLWPEDA PORT                                    35.36      0.00                 0.00      0.00     19.90       4.54      0.00
P035602       1999 MUNICIPAL DEVT.                                 20.10      0.00                 0.00      0.00      6.24       0.14      0.00
P006539       1997 SOCPOLCOMMSERV                                   370       0.00                 0.00      0.00      1.39       139       000
P036011       1996 KLWPEDA GEOTHERMAL                               5.90      0.00                 6.90      0.00      0.43       0.43      0.41
P008553       1995 KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT                             7.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      1.06       1.06      1.06
P008537       1994 POWER RENABIUTATION                             26.40      0.00                 0.00      0.00      0.60       0.80      0.60
Total:     235.30       0.00               6.90       0.00      113.65     83.75      227
- 82 -



LITHUANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Commiited                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic
2000                Drobe Wool                     6.10    0.50    0.00    0.00     3.80    0.50     0.00    0.00
1999                Ekranas                       10.17    0.00    1.90    0.00    10.17    0.00     1.90    0.00
o                   Margarino                      0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.28    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999/01             Vilniaus Bankus               0.00     0.00   18.96    0.00     0.00    0.00    18.96    0.00
Total Portfolio:        16.55    0.50    20.86     0.00   14.25    0.50    20.86    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Paric
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
- 83 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LITHUANUIA Education Improvement Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
;itlthuinla     As"a   Income       Development diamond'
2000
Poputaton, mid-year (miili6,i)                       ,'3 7      475     2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per,caDlta (Atlas method:lUSS):                  :2.750'    2,010     1;140
GNI (Atisneithod. US$ bilHons)                        1012i      956     2.327
Average annual growth. lO4Bd.OO.
Population (I%)                                       :p1         0.1       1:07
Labor torce (XJ)                                        .         0.6       1.3     GNI           ,                 Gross
~~~, w ,, +,,v, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per                                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest yearavailale.                                             to per                     promar
- .* .  ~ ~ ~  0"01capit                                                               enrollment
Poiertv 1% of DoDulellon below nasotial Doveirfv Inmel  ,16
Urban oopulation (16 of tofblouielition)                68        67        42
Life expectancy at birth feirs) -'                      72        69        69
infanl rndrtallrv foer 1.000 live births/                9        21        32
Child melnulnton (16 of children under 5)               ,,         I,        1           Access to Improved water source
Access to an imDroved water source 1% of populaflonl    66,       90        80
lllileracv 1% 6fDoooulatiofi a6e 15-)                    1         3        15
Gross primarv enrollment (% of achool -age opulationl   98       100       114               Llthuania
Male                                                 100       101       110              Lower-mniddle-income group
iFeniale                                             .98        99       114          _                    _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG- TERM TRENDS
1980     1990;-     1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP, 1US$ billlons)                                              10.2      11.2
Gross domestic lnvestmenUGDP                          32.6       22.7      20 7                    Trade
Exports of.ooods end saireiesiGbP                     521       39.7      45 5
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                            24.0       12.3      14.2
Gross national savinasiGOP  ',                                   11.5      14.7,
Currentacrount balance/GDi                            ;         -11.7      -60      Domestic         f
Inieresat                                                         1.6           9                               Investment
parmenta/GOP                   ..                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aevings
Total debt/GDP                                                  44.4       432
Total debt servlcelexDOra .s                                     17.8      19,7-
Present value of debUGDP
Present value of debtlesoorts
1980-90  199040      I999      2000    200044                   Indebtedness
'GDiP,l 3                                              ,319       3.3       5 0          L   lthuanla
GOP-Deccnibt9                                 3 0~     "318       3.4       51                Lower-middle-income group
Exportsfof gHooda and services               Z4 9B    13+1        9.0       7 2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (x)
(1 of GDP)                                                                          40
Agriculture                                           27.1        8.5       7.7
Industry                                              30.9       31.4      33.0.    20 
Manufacturing                                        20.9      17.9      21.4
Services                                              42.1       60.1      59.2 o
Private consumption                                   56.8       65.5      64.3    -2
General government consumption                        19.2       22.2      21 5                    GOI     -0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                         60.7       50.1     51 9
1980-90  1990.00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports(%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            0.4      -12.3       2.0    so
Industry                                               20       -10.2       2.0     20
Manufacturina                                         3.1      -8.7      10.2     10
Services                                               4.4        21        4.3
Private consumption                                    5.6        21        3.8     10
General oovemment consumption                          1.1      -17.5      -0.7   .20
Gross domestic Investment                              7.0       -9.6      -9 3                  Exports   -   -imports
Imports of goods and services                          7.5      -13.1       4.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators In the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averaoe. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete
- 84 -



Lithuania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990     1999     2000      Inflation (%
Domestkc prnlco
(% change)                                                                     so.-
Consumer pices                               ..      ..       0.3      1.4    so,
Implicit GDP deflator                        ..      ..       3.2      2.0    40.
Government flnance                                                             20.
(96 of GDeP includes current grants)                                           o
Current revenue                              ..      ..      32.1     30.1            95    96   97    99    99
Current budget balance                       ..      ..      -4.0     -0.8                 GDP deffator     CPI
Overall surplus/defidt                       ..      ..      -8.5     -2.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..       ..     3,004    3,809    7.900
Mineral products                           ..      ..       452      809
Agricultural and food                       ..      ..      282       446 8   00D
Manufactures                               ..       ..     1,391    1,621
Total Imports (cif)                          ..       ..    4,835     5,457
Food                                                        384      363     2,500. _
Fuel and energy                            ..       ..      709     1,185
Capital goods                                               722      684        o 01_
94   95  99   97   99   99  00
Export prce Index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       106      113
Import price Index (1995=100)                 ..     ..        93      102                U Exports    *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..       ..      114      111
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             19i0    1990      1999     2000     Cuent account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..     ..     4,238    5,109      0
Imports of goods and services                ..      ..     5,338    5,833
Resource balance                             ..      ..    -1,099     -724      4           flflfl
Net Income                                    ..     ..      -258     -194
Net current transfers                        ..      ..       163      243       I      ."             "        '
Current account balance                      ..      ..    -1,194     475      10
Financing items (net)                        ..      ..       998      806
Changes In net reserves                      ..      ..       196     -131    -1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS mrn/ons)        ..      ..     1,242     1,359
Conversion rate (DEC, local/SS)               ..     ..       4.2      4.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 CompositIon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         ..      ..     4,528     4,857
IBRD                                       ..      ..       200      253                      X 253
IDA                                        ..      ..         0        0           G: 1.114 -C: 192
Total debt service                           ..      ..       776     1,046                                D: 421
IBRD                                       ..      ..        15       24
IDA                                        ..      ..         0        0                                   5E:251
Composition of net resource flows
Ofiidal grants                                               10       63
Offiidal creditors                         ..      ..       267       84
Private creditors                          ..      ..       442      142
Foreign direct investment                  ..      ..       477      375
Portfolio equity                           ..      ..         9      122                      F: 2.C26
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..      ..        41      134     A - IBRD                   E - Bilteral
Disbursements                              ..      ..        30       66     B -IDA   D-Other mutilateral  1 - Private
PrincIpal repayments                       ..      ..         4        9     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  ..      ..        26       57
Interest payments                          ..      ..        11       15
Net transfers                              ..      ..        16       42
Development Economics                                                                                           9/6/01
-85 -



Additional Annex 11
Letter of Sector Policy
LITHUANIA: Education Improvement Project
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
Code 8860309, A.Volano St. 2/7, LT-2600 Vilnus, tel.: 370 2 74 31 25 / 74 31 52, fax. 370 2 61 20 77,
e-mail smmin(i)smm.1t, http://www.smm.lt
James D. Wolfensohn                                           April 11th, 2002
President of the World Bank
1818 H. Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Letter of Education Sector Development in Lithuania
The sector policy outlined below spells out the main strategic trends, specifies priority
areas and identifies the areas currently in need of support at the Ministry of Education and
Science, Lithuania.
Lithuania has been engaged in a decade of educational reform as laid out in "The
Concept of Education", 1992. However, the Ministry of Education and Science (MES), in
conjunction with the office of the President and the government, has prepared a new strategy
for the next decade.
The Ministry of Education and Science has reformed the Education Law and policy,
"Guidelines of Education of Lithuania in 2002-2012" are being prepared to reflect the reforms
of the past decade and the planned changes. These documents set new strategic trends in the
development of education in the light of national goals:
1. Democratization of society.
- 86 -



2. Strengthening of 'dhe market economy.
3. Joining the European Union.
In a situation of rapid and shifting political and governmental change the educational
reform policy has been consistently applied. The past decade has provided a firm legal basis for
the educational reform together with the establishment a foundation for long-tern financing of
education. While education is universally recognized as country's development priority, it is
recognized that the curreni transitional economic period does inhibit the pace at which the
government can implement these changes.
Currently educational development is especially important, as Lithuania has entered into
negotiations for accession to the European Union. A strong and high quality educational
system will help Lithuania ;md its citizens integrate with and contribute to the common market
and a unified Europe.
Since independence the Government of the Republic of Lithuania has not taken any
loans from the World Bark in order to implement the educational reform. This loan will
continue a new stage of co-operation with the World Bank. The Bank has provided invaluable
intellectual assistance to help the Ministry prepare the Education Improvement Project.
The Ministry of Education and Science closely co-operates with other international
organizations and partners who support education development. A number of bilateral
co-operative relations have been established in the past decade.
I.  Recent Developments and Key Issues of Education
The educational reform! of Lithuania has firm strategic foundations published in "The
Concept of Education" in 1992, as well as the new "Guidelines of Education 2002-2012". The
central systemic goals delineated in these documents are:
*   An independent and responsible citizen motivated to engage in life-long education and the
continuing improvement of his/her skills.
*   A knowledge based civil society that is self-governing, mutually supportive and capable of
preserving its national identity and improving its capacities and capabilities to participate in the
global economy.
*   A mature, creative nation that is capable of and ready to maintain a cultural dialogue with
other countries.
1. The work of the past decade established the legal, institutional and organizational
basis for the educational reform. The result was that the initial phase of the Education
Improvement Project was implemented in a consistent manner:
1.1. The educational reform was based on a firm conceptual basis.
The initial decade of reform was based on the policy frameworks published in "The National
School (1988)" and "The Concept of Education (1992)". These policies informed, (directed and
sustained the continuity of the reform during an era of frequent political change.
1.2. The reform rendered the system of education more flexible and open.
- 87 -



The structural change of the past decade has made the educational system more responsive to
the changing needs of the society. The creation of a ten-year basic education cycle has
increased the retention of teenagers. The reformed secondary system with improved curriculum
choice led young people to seek further participation in education. A new system of school
leaving examinations have improved the interface between general and higher education and
enhanced the transparency of the higher education admission processes.
Less academically rigorous opportunities have been initiated in response to the needs of those
children whom the traditional school did not serve. A four-stage system of vocational training
schools has been formed and a network of colleges initiated to adapt to the changes in the
labour market and the national economy.
A two-stage system of studies has been implemented at universities and higher educational
institutions. The Law on Higher Education legalized the mechanisms of adjusting the work of
higher educational institutions to become more responsive to the needs of the society and the
national economy.
1.3. Management Changes allowed partial self-government of general education and vocational
training schools, as well as greater autonomy at higher education institutions. These changes
created improved opportunities for more involved dialogue among all partners of education.
Preconditions have also been created for the formulation of regional educational policies. The
reform of education financing that has begun (moving to per capita financing or the "student's
basket" in general education), as well as efforts toward an optimization of mapping the school
network should help education better adapt to the mechanisms of the free market in the future.
According to the principle of the "student's basket", the State fixes, on an annual basis,
basic funding for the education of a conventional student (a student of normal health, attending
8th grade in an urban school), which is called the "student's basket". Correction coefficients
are applied for disabled students, students from rural areas, and students representing national
minorities.
Financing of schools based on the "student's basket" principle allows a more effective
use of funds allotted for education; up until now schools were funded based on number of class
sections and not on the actual number of students, thus financing many vacant places.
The principle also helps to ensure the transparency of funding for education. The lack of
uniform principles of funding created huge differences in educational expenses between various
regions and municipalities. The introduction of this principle provides equal access to quality
education for both urban and rural students. Thus, financial independence of schools is
enhanced, while students and parents are granted greater freedom to choose an educational
establishment.
1.4. The reform improved the quality of education provided. The curricula of general
education, vocational training and higher education were reformed during the past decade.
New curricula have been implemented, schools have been provided with new textbooks. In
- 88 -



General Education a move has been made towards a flexible national curriculum and education
standards. Opportunities an: now open for schools and teachers to individualize the contents of
education. Teaching and le.aning of foreign languages have been strengthened and developed.
The school leaving examinations provide guidelines for general education and became an
important factor in educational content policy. The system of universal attestation of teachers
created an opportunity to upgrade teachers' competencies on a nationwide scale.
1.5. The reform expanded the opportunities for learning and increased accessibility to
education. The expansion of access and opportunity is attributed to the structural changes in
education - a ten-year basic school has been created, a network of youth schools has been
initiated, newly created colleges, new universities, a system of adult education initiated, a
private educational sector is being formed. Social assistance (food programmes at schools of
general education, some scihool-bus transportation, scholarships at vocational training schools
and higher educational inslitutions, education that is in part state-funded at universities) has
been provided to both pupils and students.
2. However, due to rapid changes in the society the system faces new challenges:
2.1 Changing demographics: a dramatic decrease in the birth rate coupled with increased
emigration calls for a rationalization of the school network and a clarified set of principles for
the provision of educational services;
2.2. Democratisation of the society and the establishment of the market economy, require that
the content, process and purpose of education, the relevance and quality of educational
services, should be reviewecl;
2.3. Increasing social and economic stratification of the society demands that the State pay
increasing attention to guaranteeing equitable access to education;
2.4. Preparation for accession to the European Union requires the establishment of openness in
access to Lithuania's education system and harmonization with European Union standards.
3. The Education Improvement Project aims at solving the following current problems of
education:
3.1. Priority has been given to date to the structural reforms in upper secondary school. The
Education Improvement Prcject now plans to focus upon basic education. The reform of the
basic school is of a paramount importance as it at this level that learning skills of pupils are
developed and the basis for literacy and life-long learning is laid down. The basic school
implements compulsory education from first form through tenth up till the age of sixteen as
declared in the Law on Eduacation. At this school age there are lots of problems related to
guaranteeing equal opportunities, especially in rural areas. Hence the most important priority of
the Education Improvement Project is the improvement of the basic school.
3.2. While the curricula and structure of general education has changed, insufficient investment
- 89 -



has been made to improve the physical infrastructure. Most schools buildings do not comply
with the modem requirements due to historically low levels of maintenance. The lack of
adequate thermal insulation makes schools energy inefficient. A disproportionate amount of
available funds is used for heating schools, funds that could be better used to improve the
quality of education. The sanitary conditions of schools are very bad, 22% of schools have no
hot water systems, the buildings are cold, and all of these contribute to a high sickness rate
among pupils, low school attendance rates and low performance.
3.3. For six years no funds have been centrally allocated to the purchase of teaching materials
and aids. The gap between the requirements of the curriculum and the provision of means
necessary for teaching is widening. One of the basic objectives of the Education Improvement
Project is to improve learning conditions at basic schools and to create a learning environment
that meets contemporary standards.
3.4. In 1998 the Ministry of Education and Science declared the basic priority to be the
improvement of the quality of education. Thus, one of the most immediate and urgent tasks is
to create an efficient and effective management system for education so that decisions taken at
all levels are based on reliable information. Objective information about the condition of
education is not collected; information about good practice is distributed insufficiently. Other
improvements have already been undertaken: the system of school leaving examinations has
been created, school audit and monitoring methodologies have been developed and piloted.
However, on the whole. the works of the reform lacked monitoring, they were not consistently
based on studies of education and societal change. The educational supervisory system is not
enough attuned to the improvement of the qualitv of teaching and learning. There are too few
incentives for schools to provide better quality educational services.
3.5. Democratization of the society and the transition to the market economy, together with
accession to the European Union, imposes a need to review the principles, objectives,
conditions and processes of education. Within the past decade the contents of general
education were reorganized, education standards and general curricula were created and the
system of student assessment was reorganized. However, teachers who need to develop the
critical thinking. creativity, communication and co-operation skills of their pupils receive too
little and inadequate professional training. The purpose of the Education Improvement Project
is to "arm" the teachers of basic schools with the latest teaching/learning strategies and
methodologies, to create enabling conditions where they will be able to use the best available
methodologies, technologies, teaching materials and equipment.
3.6. One of the principal priorities of this period is rationalization of the school network.
Currently the Ministry of Education and Science is preparing guidelines to rationalize the
network of educational institutions. Local govermnents, the founders and managers of
educational institutions, are also very concemed about this issue. Irrational management of
resources result in the fact that many vacant classrooms are being financed. This costs the State
about 465 million litas yearly. Educational expenses per pupil vary among regions by as much
as 100%. The Education Improvement Project aims to strengthen the capacities of local
govemments to rationally manage the school network so that the desired quality of educational
- 90 -



services is achieved, access and retention is improved and that resources allocated to education
are used as rationally as possible. Until there is an effective and efficient system of resource
management the system will continue to be under resourced and quality will continue to suffer.
It is expected that the introduction of the "student's basket" will ensure the application of
uniform principles of funds allocation and a more effective use of these funds at all levels:
national, municipal, and school. The "student's basket" principle will help municipalities to
form a school network that will meet better the needs of students and parents, because
municipalities will be able to assess the prospects of particular schools. The number of children
who do not attend schools ivill be reduced because schools will be interested in retaining their
students and in attracting new ones. Knowing the amount of funds they may expect, school
communities will be able to better and more efficiently plan their activities.
II. Strategic objectives for education
There are three principle objectives for the development of education:
* To create a continuous system of education that is distinguished by its flexible structure,
guarantees equitable and universally accessible life-long education;
*   To guarantee the provision of quality, relevant education that meets individual
development needs;
*   To create an effective and consistent system of education that meets the changing needs of
society.
Main goal of the Education Improvement Project is to improve educational
achievements of students attending grades 5-10 in basic schools.
The Education Improvement Project Priorities:
1. Improved access to general education that meets individual and national development
needs;
2. Constant improvement and guarantee of the quality of education;
3. Increasing efficiency - effectiveness of the education system;
4. Enhanced involvement and participation of the school community and the wider society in
the process of school improvement.
1. To improve access to general education and comply with modern requirements we
plan:
1.1. to guarantee the accessibility of general education to every pupil in each local municipality;
1.2. to renew the buildings of 62 educational institutions of Lithuania (on average one
basic school within every municipality);
1.3. to organize a long-term and complex programme of upgrading professional competencies
of teachers at the basic schools, heads of these schools, librarians, municipality education sector
officers and community representatives;
1.4. to create more favorable learning conditions at schools for the pupils with different needs
- 91 -



by reorganizing learning spaces, providing them with adequate leaming aids and raising the
skills of teachers;
1.5. to create "virtual learning environments " at basic schools by providing them with
computer software and training for teachers in how to use it;
1.6. to provide basic schools with modem teaching aids;
1.7. to create a rational system of pupils' transportation;
1.8. to adjust and supplement legal acts ensuring access to basic education.
2. Seeking to constantly improve and ensure quality of education we plan:
2.1. to create an education management information system (EMIS) based on timely
collection of data, its analysis and distribution.
2.2. to create a policy analysis group at the Education Development Center, which will be
responsible for carrying out continuous monitoring of the system of education, will organize
policy analyses and train managers to use information and analysis in making decisions;
2.3. to implement a national system of assessment of students' performance;
2.4. to create a system of the extemal and internal audit of schools encouraging the
improvement of schools and assuring the quality of education provision;
2.5. to improve management competences of the officials of the Ministry, local
municipalities and heads of schools.
3. In seeking to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the system of education we
plan:
3.1. to create guidelines for restructuring of the school network at the municipal level;
3.2. to assist municipalities in rationalizing the school network and school financing;
3.3. to enhance capacity of the municipalities to allocate the funds saved to the improvement of
the quality of education;
3.4. to improve the capacity of schools to carry out an internal audit, which would help schools
to plan and achieve planned objectives more efficiently;
3.5. to improve the capacity of local municipalities to carry out an external audit of the schools,
which would help to assure the quality of education;
3.6. to prepare annual reports on the status of education, to carry out research and analysis,
which would help ensure better policy decisions.
4. With the aim to increase involvement and participation of the school community and
the wider society in the process of school improvement, we plan:
4.1. to create conditions for learning communities to be established at basic schools, where
teachers, students and administrators will be learming together and the communication and
co-operation among teachers, pupils, parents, municipality education sectors, the local
community, and other schools will be enhanced;
4.2. to create school networks, which will help communities from different schools
communicate and co-operate;
4.3. to create conditions for teachers, pupils and school communities to co-operate in a
- 92 -



virtual learning environment;
4.4. to strengthen the capacity of the heads of schools to involve the school community
in school development planring and internal audits;
4.5. by various means (through the press, TV, radio, meetings) to popularize the ideas of the
reform of general education, to organize public discourse with different audiences;
4.6. to guarantee openness and the accessibility of the education management
information system (EMIS) to all users: information will not only be collected from
schools and local governments but will be easily accessible to them, as well.
III. Measures and financial assistance needed to implement the objectives of the
development of education
In seeking to implement the priorities of the general education reform, the Ministry of
Education and Science drew up the Education Improvement Project, which aims:
* at enhancing the quality of teaching and learning at basic schools;
*   at optimising the utilization of education funds and resources.
The Education Improvement Project consists of four integrated components:
1. Improvement of teaching and learning conditions at basic schools;
2. Creation of the system of quality management of education;
3. Reduction of energy expenses and improvement of learning conditions;
4. Optimization of the school network.
1. Improvement of teaching and learning conditions at basic schools
The purpose of this component is to develop teachers' professional competence and
improve teaching/learning conditions by encouraging active learning of pupils and co-operation
between teachers at school and between schools.
We plan to achieve this goal by means of the following:
1.1. a long-term and integrated programme of training for teachers, heads of
schools and schocil teams involving municipality education sector officers;
1.2. the creation of a virtual leaniing environment at schools;
1.3. the provision of schools with new teaching aids;
1.4. preparation and publication of learning materials, periodical publications and
video programmes.
2. Creation of the system of quality management of education
The main objective cf this component is to create a system of quality education
management, which is understood as the timely use of relevant information about the
- 93 -



consequences of prior decisions, in order to improve our ability to raise system efficiency and
student achievement. In creating a system of quality management in education, the following
objectives are pursued:
2.1. to create the education management information system (EMIS) embracing
the organization of the timely collection of data, the creation of databases, the
assurance of their accessibility, training of the providers and users of information;
2.2. to create a system of continuous monitoring of the system of education and
to strengthen capacities of different management levels to develop education
policies;
2.3. to create a national system to assess students' performance, providing
reliable information about the achievements of the pupils of the 4th, 8th and 10th
grades, as well as the contents and process of education;
2.4. to create and implement a system of external and internal audits of schools by
training school conmmunities to carry out an internal audit, by creating the
methodology for external audits and training auditors of local municipalities to
apply it.
3. Reduction of energy expenses and the improvement of learning conditions
By means of this component we seek to renew school buildings so that energy expenses
may be reduced and learning conditions for pupils improved. A long-term objective of this
component is to rationalize the application of the funds allocated to education by saving on
heating expenses and using savings to improve the quality of education.
4. Optimization of the school network
By means of this component we seek to strengthen the economic capacity and skills of
local governments to rationalize the school network in order to ensure accessibility to high
quality pre-school and general education to children and adults. Rational management of the
school network will help save budgetary funds allocated to education and guarantee the
diversity of educational services taking into account social, economic, cultural and
demographic changes. It will help reduce the number of vacant classrooms, especially in rural
areas, as well as modernize the students' system of school transportation, including students
with special needs, that they may safely reach schools far from their homes.
The component has three objectives:
- 94 -



4.1. the development of guidelines for restructuring of the network of schools and the
implementation of these guidelines within municipalities;
4.2. the development of a safe and efficient system of pupils' transportation.
4.3. the effective utilization of the saved funds.
The Ministry of Education and Science of Lithuania is in need of financial and technical
assistance to carry out the objectives set out in the four components of the Education
Improvement Project.
S ir  s vic    ius
Minister of Education and Science
of the Republic of Lithuania



- 96 -



MAP SECTION



IBRD 26177
To SoldusJ                    To Riga  L A T V I A                                            K              2
N ic  Toe r            o e k o   t  N u o i c * , r ?   i            O po D Riga                                       KILO M ETERS
c Nico  -.1    ~~~~~Maekicio i                                                                              0  10 20 310 410 50
Lake                Lzl11Nuoi( 
Jonigkis ,                                                     0     10   20    30
\ tpj 0                                               /         DB/ X E, zol C                                          MILES
Blti
~11,AU LIAI  I  1.Pney
F E D E R AdT I O N !o- -a _ L !                              To DAu!Ap
_,, 1   [                                                                                                              AUGUST199~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAy',:a
X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~
J                                                                            BEL~~~~~~~iE ARUS
OS  N  Tdurage ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ Kedi I
Ukmer9e
--  __    i~~~~urbarkas',                                        L
To Kali,,ingr, ad
FEDERAINAN                                                                                     I/ITELEVK IATIN
U                                                                4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~URBAN AREAS  INEMETERNS:
IC  ESTON  -        -                                                        00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED CITIES  NMERS
Sea              FED.                                   Lh        O   7L                                                             0
150
~~W~LJ~N    *~ LAWIA'1                 To Suwolki                                                                   MA-TRNK ROADS       5
/                                                         -- MAIN ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1"fo 
LITHUANLA>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ITO Lda~--I RAILROADS
FSESEIA9  (~MoP      POL AN D            )J>        *-                 -~To Rodun                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~Dr,.Iskn-  
POLAND       ~~~                                   >V7E-ARUSBELARU S
AIJGUST 19954









IMAGING
Report No.:         24157  LT
Type:     PAD



