Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7128-LT
Loan Agreement
(
Education Improvement Project)
between
Republic of Lithuania
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 29, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7128-LT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 2002, between The REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 11, 2002 from the Borrower 
describing a program involving policies and actions designed to achieve reforms in the 
Borrower’s education sector;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (C) the Borrower through MES intends to receive technical assistance to 
implement the Project upon terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the MES and the University of Helsinki; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Basic Education” means the education services provided in the Borrower’s 
territory  to students grades five through ten of schooling;
(b)
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan for the Project, satisfactory 
to the Bank, describing the environmental issues, mitigation, monitoring and institutional 
measures for the Project;
(c)
“Euro” or sign € means the lawful currency of the member States of the 
European Union that have adopted the single currency in accordance with the Treaty 
Establishing the European community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union;
(d)
“HUDF” means the Housing and Urban Development Foundation, a public 
institution operating pursuant to its by-laws approved by Resolution No. 202 of the Minister of 
Finance of the Borrower, dated July 29, 1999 and registered in the City of Vilnius on August 5, 
1999 (Registration No. VS97-138);
Page  3
(e)
“MES/Helsinki University Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
by the Borrower through MES and the University of Helsinki to provide technical assistance to 
MES;
(f)
“MES” means the Ministry of Education and Sciences of the Borrower;
(g)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; 
(h)
“Implementation Agreement” means the tripartite agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, MES and HUDF pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(i)
 “Operational Manual” means the manual satisfactory to the Bank and adopted 
by MES and HUDF setting forth the operational and administrative procedures for the 
implementation of Part C of the Project;
(j)
“Participating Municipality” means the municipality selected by MES according 
to criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Plan for purposes of carrying out  Subproject;
(k)
“Participating County” means a county selected by MES according to the criteria 
set forth in the Project Implementation Plan for purposes of carrying out a  Subproject;
(l)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the  document, satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing the criteria and procedures for implementation of the Project, as the same may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between MES and the Bank;
(m)
“Policy Analysis Group” means a group of professionals established by MES  
Minister’s Order No. 419 dated March 19, 2002;
(n)
“Project Coordination Unit” means a unit established to support MES with the 
coordination and management of the Project; 
(o)
“Subproject” means any of the activities that will be implemented by the 
Municipalities and or Counties in implementing the Project;
(p)
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
MES, HUDF and the Participating Municipality or Participating County to implement the 
Subproject in accordance with Section 3.02 (b);
(q)
“Subproject Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between MES and the Participating Municipality or Participating County to implement the 
Subproject;
(r)
 “Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b)   of this 
Agreement;
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to  twenty nine million  Euros (€
29,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of  the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 
4.04(c) of the General Conditions.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in Euros 
two separate special deposit accounts to be designated  (the MES Special Account for Parts A, B, 
D
and E of the Project and the HUDF Special Account for Part C of the Project) in the Bank of 
Lithuania (Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan (€ 290,000).  The Borrower agrees on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on May 
15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
Page  5
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the 
Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, educational and pedagogical practices, and in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an Implementation Agreement with MES 
Page  6
and  HUDF satisfactory to the Bank to implement, monitor and evaluate the Project.
(b)
MES and HUDF shall on behalf of the Borrower enter into a Subproject Grant 
Agreement with each Participating Municipality and or Participating County  to make part of the 
proceeds of the Loan and MES counterpart funds available to the Participating Municipality and 
or Participating County  on a grant basis to carry out the corresponding activities of Part C of the 
Project. 
(c)
MES shall on behalf of the Borrower enter into a Subproject Implementation 
Agreement with each Participating Municipality or Participating County.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subproject Implementation 
Agreement and Subproject Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
Page  7
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Financial Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
Page  8
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
 The first FMR shall be furnished to the  Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first  calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are  specified, namely, that:  
(a)
the Participating Municipalities and/or Participating Counties shall have failed to 
perform any of their obligations under the Subproject Implementation Agreement and Subproject 
Grant Agreement;
(b)
the HUDF  shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement and/or Subproject Grant Agreement; 
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Participating 
Municipalities and/or Participating Counties or HUDF will be able to perform their obligations 
under their respective Agreements;
(d)
The legislation of the Borrower setting up the municipalities and/or  counties 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Participating Municipalities and/or Participating Counties to perform 
any of their obligations under the Subproject Implementation Agreement and or Subproject Grant 
Agreement;
(e)
The MES/Helsinki University Agreement shall have failed to become effective 
by August 1, 2002, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if MES establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that similar technical assistance for the Project is available to MES from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of MES under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of MES to receive technical assistance shall have been 
Page  9
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the 
terms of the MES/University of Helsinki 
Agreement or,
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if MES establishes to 
the 
satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the MES to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to MES from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of MES under this Agreement.
Section 5.02 Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
any events specified in paragraphs (a) (b) (d) and (e) Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph f (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance (MOF) of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  10
Ministry of Finance
of the Republic of Lithuania
J. Tumo – Vaizganto 8a/2
Vilnius LT-2600
Lithuania
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
Ph: (370 2) 390 113
(370 2) 390 109
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Vilnius, 
Lithuania, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
By:
/s/ Dalia Grybauskaite
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:
   /s/ Michael Carter
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  11
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan
Allocated
           % of Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in EURO Equivalent )
to be Financed  
(1)
(a) Civil works, Design 
17,900,000
        100%  
 & Supervision
Services for Part C 
of the project
(b) Small civil works,
750,000
82%
Design and Supervision 
Services for Part D
of the project
(2)
Goods, Vehicles
7,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures ex-
factory cost
82% of local
expenditure for
other items procured 
locally.
(3)
Consultants’ Services,
830,00082%
 Seminars and Publishing
(4)
Front end fee
290,000
(5)
Premia for Interest
0
Amount due
Rate Cap and Interest Rate
under sec 2.09(c)
Collar
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
 2,230,000 
TOTAL
29,000,000  
2. 
For purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
Page  12
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the  
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statement of expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than € 115,000 equivalent 
each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts with consulting firms costing less than € 115,000 
equivalent each; (c) consultants services under contracts with individuals costing less than €
28,500 equivalent each all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower;  (d) works under contracts costing less than € 850,000 equivalent each; and (e) 
all seminars and publishing costs.
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  (ii) Category 
1(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this part unless the Bank is satisfied that the respective 
Subproject Grant Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto and that the financial 
contribution amounting to approximately 50% of the total cost of each Subproject for Part C 
from the Municipality and MES has been fully utilized, and (iii) payments made for expenditures 
for Category 1(a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this part until an Implementation Agreement 
satisfactory to the Bank has been entered into and signed by the parties thereto.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to enhance and improve the quality of teaching and 
learning in basic schools, create a modern system of quality education management,  and 
improve energy efficiency and the learning conditions and environment in schools. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Enhancing Quality Learning and Teaching in Basic Schools
1.
upgrading of teachers’ skills and knowledge in teaching through training;
2.
providing basic education teaching aids to meet the demands of the new curriculum; and
3.
creating a community of learners among teachers and students through the use of 
information and communication technologies and the internet.
Part B
: Creating a Modern System of Education Quality Management
Page  13
1.
establishing a Policy Analysis Group (PAG) responsible for developing the internal 
capacity of MES to conduct policy analysis by provision of technical assistance and training;
2.
strengthening education management information systems through provision of upgraded 
information systems, technical assistance and training;
3.
enhancing the national capacity for systematic assessment of students’ achievements 
through technical assistance and training; and
4.
establishing a system of internal and external audit of schools through technical 
assistance and training.
Parts C
: Improving of Energy Efficiency, Learning Environment and Conditions in Schools 
1.
improving the efficiency of engineering networks, through interventions for enhancing 
the performance of heating and ventilation systems; 
2.
improving hygiene conditions; and 
3.
providing handicapped access facilities to enable integration of disabled children into the 
school system; and refurbishing libraries.
Parts D
: Promoting the optimization of the Municipalities’ school network by:
1.
developing MES capacity to assist local governments to implement a program for 
optimizing the local government school network;
2.
assisting municipalities in the preparation and implementation of school network 
optimization plans through school closures and amalgamation, and at pilot municipalities 
retraining of redundant teachers, provision of additional teaching aids and small civil works to 
enhance school infrastructure of receiving schools;
3.
assisting municipalities in organizing student transportation to ensure universal access to 
basic education; and
4.
preparing a uniform monitoring system for accounting of saved funds obtained from 
energy efficiency and network optimization interventions to be utilized for education quality 
improvement programs.
Parts E
: Supporting Project Management
Strengthening the procurement, financial management and communication capacity of 
Page  14
the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Payment Date
Installment Share
(Expressed as a %)
On each  May 15 and November 15
Beginning November 15, 2007
Through November 15, 2018
4.17 %
On May 15, 2019  
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
Page  15
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Page  16
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
3.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provision of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost €850,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed €41,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under (a) above 
shall be those set forth in the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Public Procurement, 13 
August, 1996, No. I-1491 (as amended by 3 June, 1999, No. VIII-1210, 21 March, 2000, No. 
VIII-1577) of the Republic of Lithuania with the following required for compliance with the 
Guidelines:
(i)
no preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders.  Any 
regulations 
issued by a sectoral ministry, provincial regulations and 
local regulations, which 
restrict national competitive bidding 
procedures to a class of contractors or a class 
of suppliers shall not be 
applicable to procurement procedures under the Loan;
(ii)
When distributing standard bidding documents (SBD): 
(A)
only those SBDs deemed satisfactory to the Bank shall be 
distributed to 
eligible bidders; and
(B)
eligible foreign bidders shall be entitled to receive English 
translated 
SBDs at no additional cost.
(iii)
custom duties may be included in the foreign bidders’ bids only for price 
comparison purposes;
(iv)
bid prices, which are defined as disproportionately high or low, shall not 
be treated 
as a condition for bid rejection except in justifiable cases with 
the Bank’s prior 
concurrence;
(v)
evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria, clearly defined 
in the 
bidding document and not the decision of the Evaluation 
Committee which is 
based on a majority vote with open ballot; and
Page  17
(vi)
preliminary order of bids and the reasons for bids rejection shall not be 
communicated to bidders until the official decision for award of 
contract has been 
made and approval of the recommendation for award by 
the Bank in case of prior 
review.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost € 115,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed € 440,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost € 57,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed € 235,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
 3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature such as books, publications and software and 
costing € 56,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.  
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost € 57,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed € 2,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest evaluated price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to  bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and 
Page  18
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract: (i) for goods and works procured in accordance 
with international competitive bidding procedures; (ii) the first two contracts procured in 
accordance with national competitive bidding procedures,  the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
international shopping procedures; (ii) the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
national shopping procedures; (iii) the first two contracts procured for small works; and (iv) all 
contracts procured in accordance with direct contracting procedures, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received, for its review and approval;  
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract for its review and approval; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
. Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Page  19
Part B
: Quality-and Cost-based Selection
1. 
 Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than € 230,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding € 98,000 
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost € 115,000 equivalent or less per contract, to an estimate 
aggregate € 505,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single-Source Selection
Services for assistance in development of optimization of school network and 
transportation methods which are a continuation of the services under the preparation of the 
Project and costing € 20,800 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  20
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first contract regardless of the cost thereof; (ii) the first 
two contracts based on the consultants’ qualifications, (iii) all contracts based on least cost 
selection; (iv) all single source contracts; and (v) all quality and cost-based selection contracts of 
consultants, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost above €28,500 equivalent, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) and (b) above, for all 
contracts not subject to prior review, the short list, Terms of Reference and conditions of the 
contract shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about March 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) and (b) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
Page  21
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project, 
protection of the environment and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by May 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter. 
2.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure:
(a)
that the schools to be selected meet the criteria set out in the Operational    
Manual; and 
(b)
that all measures necessary and satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out of 
the EMP are taken in a timely manner and appropriately documented  in the progress reports 
referred to in paragraph 2(b) of this Schedule; and if necessary, adjustments which the Bank and 
the Borrower deem appropriate may be made in the EMP to protect human health and the 
environment.
3.
The Borrower shall also: 
(a)
maintain the PCU with adequate staff and resources to enable the PCU to 
coordinate Project activities and ensure that Project resources are appropriately managed;
(b) 
maintain a Policy Analysis Group with adequate staff and resources to monitor, 
evaluate and report on educational policies, plans and programs and provide reliable and accurate 
information on the education formulation process; 
(c) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate  to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project objectives and achievements;
(d)
ensure the PCU’s prepares and furnishes to the Bank quarterly reports on Project 
progress; and
(e)
submit to the Bank, not later than December 15 of each year, an Annual Action 
Plan and a Procurement Plan.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts 
Page  22
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means in the case of the MES Special Account 
Categories (1)(b), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule1 to this 
Agreement; and in the case of the HUDF Special Account, Category (1) (a)  set forth in said 
table;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means with respect to the MES Special 
Account an amount equivalent to € 1,000,000 and in respect to the HUDF Special Account an 
amount equivalent to € 2,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of € 500,000 
in respect of the MES Special Account and an amount equivalent to € 1,000,000 in respect of the 
HUDF Special Account until: (i) with respect to the MES Special, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account  plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of € 5,000,000; and (ii) with respect to the HUDF Special 
Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of  the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of €9,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the  respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Page  23
para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective  
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account for (i) Parts A, B, D and E; and (ii) Part C of the 
Project minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts (i) A, B, D and E; and (ii) Part C of 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for each 
Special Account.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for (i) Parts A, B, D and E; and (ii) Part C 
of the Project  shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of    any 
Page  24
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in any 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
