RCJLAfNG COP?               RESTRICTED
BE RRNE TO AR¢CI           VM10N      Report No. P-551
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE PUBLIC UTILITIES BOARD, SINGAPORE
FOR A POWER AND WATER PROJECT
June 2, 1967



.aNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO£MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED IOAN TO THE PUBLIC UTILITIES BOARD, SINGAPORE
FOR A POIWER AND WIATER PROJECT
1.        I submit the followTing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S.$23 million to
the Public Utilities Board, Singapore (PUB).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of
the expansion of the electric power distribution system for the two-year
period 1967-68 and of a water supply project.   U.S.$15 million equivalent
of the proposed loan would be for power distribution and U.S.$8 million
equivalent for water supply.
3.        The project forms part of an on-going expansion program undertaken
by PUB to which four previous Bank loans have contributed.   It was originally
presented as a four-year program but the power distribution part has been
reduced to a two-year program in order to limit the commitment which the
Bank would have to make at this time.   The project was appraised in two
parts - water supply in December 1966 and pow,er distribution in January/
February 1967.
4.        Negotiations took place betwfeen May 8 and May 11, 1967.  Dr. Ong
Swee Law, Chairman of PUB, represented the Singapore Government and PUB.
The other participants for PUB were Messrs. S.C. Chua, Member of the Board,
K.X. ':ee, ChEief Accountant, K.S. Khong, Chief Water Engineer, Z.K. Fiuczek,
Chief i2ec-rical Bhigineer and L. Estrop, Transmission Engineer.
5.       TThe proposed loan would be the fifth to be made in Singapore
and the third under the guarantee of Singapore. The first loan was
guaranteed by the United Kingdom and the second by Malaysia.   The
follow,ing is a summary statement of Bank loans in Singapor3 as at
April 30, 1967.



-2-
Loan                                                      Undisbursed
Year    No.       Borrower               Purpose      Amount   on April 30, 1967
1963   337   State of Singapore       Electric Power  $ 15.0          1.3
1965   4o5   Public Utilities Board Water Supply         6.8          2.7
1966   462   Port of Singapore
Authority             Port Expansion     15.0        1h.4
1966   473   Public Utilities Board   Electric Power    10.0         1.8
Total                                                 $ 46.8
of wbich has been repaid                               o.6
Total now outstanding                                   46.2
Amount sold                         $ 2.1
of which has been repaid             _                 2.1
Total now held by the Bank                            $ 44.1
Total undisbursed                                                 $ 20.2
6.       Execution of Bank loans to Singapore has been satisfactory although
the introduction of facilities for container operation will delay the start
of construction of the Port project.   I expect very shortly to submit a
recommendation on a loan equivalent to U.S.$3 million for the expansion and
improvement of telephone services.
7.       Singapore is not a member of the International Finance Corporation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSFD IOAN
8.       The main features of the proposed loan are given below:
Borrower:        Public Utilities Board
Guarantor:       The Republic of Singapore
amount:          Various currencies equivalent to U.S.$23 million.
Purpose:         The expansion of power distribution and water
supply.
Amortization:    The loan is to be repaid over a period of 20 years
including a grace period of three years for the
amount allocated to poaer distribution (U.S.$15
million) and a grace period of five years for the
amount allocated to water supply (U.S.$8 million).
Amortization will be in 35 semi-annual installments
canmencing June 1, 1970 and ending June 1, 1987.



Interest Rate:       6% per annum
Commitment Charge:   3/8 of 1% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
90       A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
report "Appraisal of the Public Utilities Board Power Distribution and
Water Supply Project, Singapore" (TO-588a) dated M4ay 29, 1967.
10.      The PUB was established in 1963 as an autonomous public corporation
to take over the City Council's responsibility for the electricity, water
and gas utilities. The Board is composed of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman
and seven other members who are appointed by the President of the Republic
for periods not exceeding three years, but who are eligible for reappointment.
PUB has had management and organization problems in the past to which I
referred in my report (P-514) of October 19, 1966. However, as pointed out
in the Appraisal Report, the PUB is making satisfactory progress in
overcoming them. The General Manager who vwas appointed in July 1966 is
fully competent and appropriate steps are being taken to strengthen the
organization of the PUB as a whole as well as of its individual departments.
These steps are based in part on the recommendations of a management
consultant firm engaged at the Bank's request when the 1965 loan for water
supply was made. Satisfactory steps are being taken to resolve the
immediate staffing problems and training is being given greater emphasis.
11.    Demand for power and water has increased substantially over recent years
power by about 10% and water by about 7%, annually. Forecasts show continued
rapid growth particularly of power as a result of increased sales to
industrial consumers. The forecasts for the 1967-72 period show an average
rate of increase in total sales per annum of around 13.5% for power and
about 5.5s for water.
12.      The electric power distribution part of the project consists of
the expansion of the distribution system during the two-year period 1967-68
and includes the installation of 230 MVA of primary and 250 IMVA of secondary
distribution transformers, 145 miles of primary distribution cable and
secondary distribution equipment. Total cost is estimated at .$25 million
and the proposed loan ill cover the presently estimated foreign exchange cost
of about P15 million or 60% of the estimated total cost.  The water supply
part of the project includes the construction of a new Seletar dam and
reservoir, expansion of the Woodleigh Treatment Plant and extension of the
water distribution system through 1970. Total cost is estimated at $16 million
and the proposed loan wiLL cover the presently estimated foreign exchange
cost of $8 million or half of the estimated total cost.



13.       The project is well designed to meet the estimated increase in
demand for power and water, In addition to financing materials and supplies
for the project, tho proposed loan will cover engineering costs, the cost
of a study regarding the structure of power tariffs to be undertaken by
consultants, as well as interest on the loan during construction. The
proposed loan will not cover expenditures for the project made prior to
the date of its signing. Procurement procedures of the PUB comply with
the Bank's requirements for international tendering. The PUB representatives
indicated during the loan negotiations that the Government might require
them in certain instances to place orders with local suppliers, and they
were informed that the Bank would desire to be informed of such cases
before bids were requested and that the Bank might be prepared to finance
such procurement if the degree of preference to be accorded to domestic
manufacturers were agreed upon in advance between the PUB and the Bank.
14.       The PUB's financial position was temporarily weak in 1965 and
1966, but this weakness has been overcome as a result of tax reductions
by the Government and the FUB's tariff increases. Through 1972, PUB
should be able to show a return on the average net fixed assets in operation
above 8%. The PUB's debt service coverage as forecast is satisfactory and
although it is expected to drop from 2.1 times in 1967 to 1.8 times in 1970,
it would again improve to 2.0 times in 1972. The debt/equity ratio, expected
to increase to 56/44 in 1968, should decrease to 44/56 in 1972. The PUB's
present and future financial position appears sound.   The preliminary income
statements and balance sheets for 1966 do not differ materially from the
estimates available at the time of the appraisal and discussed in the
Appraisal Report.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIv1NTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Public Utilities
Board, the draft Guarantee Agreement between Singapore and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. In general, the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements embody
obligations usual for this type of project.
pART V - THE ECONOMY
16.       An economic report on the current economic positidr and prospects
of Singapore dated February 10, 1966 (FE-52a) was circulated to the Executive
Directors on March 3, 1966. A memorandum updating the information contained
in that report, based on a recent visit to Singapore by a staff member,
is attached.
17.       The memorandum notes the basic problem of the economy - to sustain
the prosperity and well being achieved historically on the basis of a
tlriving entrepot trade which in recent times has become stagnant.   Singapore
seeks an answer to the problem through the transformation of the economy
into an industrial, as well as entrepot, center.



18.    In recent years the progress of industrialization and the growth
of the economy have been impressive with substantial increases in
manufacturing output, both for the Singapore market and for export. The
end of Indonesia's "confrontation" with Malaysia and the partial resumption
of Singapore-Indonesia trading relations has also increased entrepot
activity and improved prospects for a further increase. Reflecting these
favorable developments, Singapore's GNP has risen in recent years at an
annual rate of 65 and exports of Singapore products have gone up even
faster. This rapid expansion has been managed without disturbing Singapore'
traditionally stable finances.
19.    Recent events have, nevertheless, aggravated the uncertainties
surrounding Singapore's longer run economic future. Political separation
from Malaysia in August 1965, and the associated changes in iingapore-
Malaysian relations, have dashed the hopes that were pinned on market
integration of the two as a stimulus to industrialization. Mbre recently,
the prospect that Britain will reduce its military establishment in the
area, including its large Singapore base with 32,000 civilian employees,
has added to the uncertainties. British military spending in Singapore
now accounts for about 16dO of Singapore's total national expenditure.
These developments have contributed to the hesitation which characterizes
the Singapore investment scene at the moment.
20.    It is therefore difficult right now to assess the prospects for
large and rapid industrialization. Government policy has done as much
as could be expected to provide inducements, facilities, and a favorable
administrative and financial climate for manufacturing investment.  The
primary initiative is left, however, to private enterprise.  As indicated,
the response so far has been encouraging. But whether Fingapore has all
thle ingredients for a thriving industrial future is a difficult question
to answer at this time. It is the intention of the Bank to explore the
question and try to arrive at a better assessment of Singapore's industrial
prospects toward the end of this year.
21.    Meanwhile, however, there is no question of Singapore's capacity
to service additional foreign loans. Barring much more serious political
developments in the region than now seem likely, the issue of Singapore's
economic future is one of growth at a moderate to rapid rate.  Expansion
at a pace sufficient to support substantial additional debt service is
not in question. Service on present external debt is only about 2Z of
domestic exports, net entrepot earnings and other foreign receipts on
current account.
PART VI - CO4PLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 6 -
PART VII - RECOiMMENDATION
23.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Public Utilities Board, Singapore
in an amount equivalent to US$23,000,000 to be guaranteed
by the Republic of Singapore
RESOLVED:
THAT the Banlc shall grant a loan to the Public Utilities Board,
Singapore, to be guaranteed by the Republic of Singapore, in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million United States
dollars (US$23,000,000), to mature on and prior to June 1, 1987, to bear
interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Power
and Water Project) between the Bank and the Public Utilities Board,
Singapore, and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Power and Water Project)
between the Republic of Singapore and the Bank, which have been presented
to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
June 2, 1967



