Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB6198 
 
Operation Name 
Fourth Economic Recovery and Governance Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Country 
Togo 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Crops (20%); Power 
(15%); Mining and other extractive industries (15%) 
Operation ID 
P122806 
Lending Instrument 
Grant 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TOGO 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
December 7, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal  
February 11, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 29, 2011 
Concept Review Decision 
December 15, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Real GDP growth showed a modest acceleration in 2009 and 2010 but remains below potential due 
to the external environment
.
Economic growth in 2008 was depressed by flood damage and surges in 
international oil and food prices. As a result of the countercyclical fiscal policies, real GDP growth 
started to recover in 2009. It reached 3.2 percent
––above earlier estimations (2.5 percent) but lower than 
projected before the crisis unfolded (4 percent). GDP growth in 2010 is estimated at 3.4 percent, driven 
mainly by the extractive industries, especially clinker/cement, commerce and public works linked to 
public investment. The external environment continues to impede and delay the expected recovery 
following Togo’s protracted domestic crisis.   
 
The Togolese authorities have implemented a wide range of reforms in the areas of public finance 
management, and in the cotton, phosphate and energy sectors. The most prominent, include: 
·
Setting up a committee to follow up the implementation of the new set of WAEMU Directives 
adopted in 2009 by the regional council of ministers of finance; (ii) gradually introducing the 
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) for Health, Education and Agriculture; (iii) 
operationalizing SIGFIP on a pilot basis at the central level and five regional Treasury offices; 
(iv) initiating the rationalization and simplification of the expenditure chain by reducing 
redundant controls and the use of exceptional expenditure execution procedures; and (v) 
operationalizing the Court of Accounts, which initiated functions in the last quarter of 2009 
·
A
strategic audit of the cotton sector and two financial audits of the former state-owned cotton 
company were carried out. The audits were followed by clearance of the cotton company’s 
payment arrears to farmers, as well as the introduction of internal controls and cost savings. 
·
In the electricity sector, the authorities have established a Board of Directors for the electricity 
utility company, adopted new statutes harmonized with WAEMU corporate law, and appointed a 
Page  2
new general manager. As of January 2011 a new tariff structure will be in place, in line with the 
supplier’s adjustment in June 2009. 
·
Important milestones were achieved in the phosphate sector, including the finalization of a 
strategic audit, preparation of a three-year-business plan, and adoption in March 2010 of the 
phosphate sector strategy. In October 2010, after fulfilling all the required criteria, Togo was 
granted EITI candidate status. 
The operation directly supports two pillars of the ISN and provides financing for budgeted fiscal needs 
during 2011. The reforms supported by the operation are critical to the Government’s ability to use 
public resources efficiently and effectively to support the country’s economic and social recovery. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The main objective of the ERGG-4 is to support government-owned reforms to improve governance, 
transparency and efficiency in public financial management as well as advance structural reforms aimed 
at strengthening key sectors of economy (phosphates, cotton and energy) 
The expected results are the following: (i) three sectors have MTEFs; (ii) spending units receive ceilings 
on expenditure commitments two months in advance; (iii) 100 percent of the contracts processed during 
the last quarter of 2011 are subject to prior review by the General Procurement Department; (iv) NSCT’s 
costs reduced by 5 percent; (v) all criteria towards becoming an EITI candidate country are met; and (vi) 
CEET’s net income increased by 7 percent 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The ERGG-4 focuses on continuing and deepening policy reforms initiated by the Government under 
the previous ERGGs to strengthen budget preparation, execution, controls and public procurement. It 
would also contribute to creating the conditions for increased private sector confidence through 
measures to improve governance and transparency in the phosphate, cotton, and energy sectors. The 
inclusion of policy and institutional actions to improve management in selected public enterprises is 
highly relevant to the operation, as this is likely to provide quick wins in terms of additional fiscal space 
and investments in those sectors. This would lead over time to strengthened fiscal sustainability, 
improved economic governance and growth, poverty reduction and enhanced transparency of State 
institutions and processes. 
The prior actions are the following:  (i) Draft the decrees and laws for the 6 UEMOA directives 
regarding public finances;  (ii) Publicize the quarterly 2010 budget execution report (first 3 quarters) and 
(ii) submit a draft 2011 budget to the Parliament with a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) 
for education, health and agriculture; (iii)
 
Implement a new  institutional framework for treasury 
management planning; (iv) Produce treasury balances using the SIGFIP; (v) Submit 2007 and 2008 
financial statements of the cotton, phosphates, telecommunications, and electricity companies to the 
Court of Accounts; Develop a website, create a procurement newspaper, and start its publication; (vi)
 
Develop a website, create a procurement newspaper, and start its publication; (vii) Implement an 
analytical accounting system consistent with the recommendations of the assessment report; (viii)
 
Train 
the farmers on the Board of the new cotton company to strengthen their representational abilities; (ix)
 
Prepare detailed action plan and budget for the activities that are to be implemented under EITI-Togo; 
and (x) Adjust utility tariffs based on the authorities’ decision taken in June 2009. 
4. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Page  3
Given the overall thrust of the ERGG-4, no negative impacts on vulnerable groups are envisaged.
 
On the contrary, all the measures considered should result in improved overall well-being because of 
better governance and more efficient and equitable Government services.  As with previous ERGG 
operations, the Government has made considerable efforts to ensure that planned actions involve 
specific stakeholders and citizens at large through a participatory process
 
The reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are part of broader program of 
actions to promote the recovery of key sectors, notably cotton, phosphates and energy, in addition 
to strengthening public financial management systems. 
These reforms, dealing mainly with 
economic governance and institutional issues, are not likely to have significant negative impacts on the 
country’s environment and natural resources.  
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
28 
 Total 
28 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact
:
Maria Manuela Do Rosario Francisco 
Title
:
Sr. Country Economist 
Tel
:
(202) 473-8209 
Fax
:
(202) 473-8136 
Email
:
mfrancisco@worldbank.org
