Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6292 
Operation Name 
Economic Recovery and Gov. Grant 4 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); Crops (20%); Power 
(15%); Mining and other extractive industries (15%) 
Country 
Togo 
Operation ID 
P122806 
Lending Instrument 
DPL 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TOGO 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 18, 2011 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal  
February 14, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 29, 2011 
Corporate Review 
Decision 
 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed 
with the preparation of the operation.  
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Togo is a small country in West Africa with a population of 6.5 million (2009). Its main 
economic potential has been based on mining, agriculture, and transit trade. 
Togo’s highest 
export-earning sector is clinker/cement, produced from local limestone. The country’s next 
important exports are phosphates and cotton, processed and marketed by public enterprises. As 
recently as 2000, phosphate and cotton exports together accounted for over 50 percent of total 
export revenue. However, since then, their share has declined dramatically. The phosphate 
sector’s exports dropped by more than 50 percent in a few years, from FCFA 33 billion in 2001 
to FCFA 15 billion in 2007.  The cotton sector’s exports fell from a peak of FCFA 52 billion in 
2003 to FCFA 12 billion in 2007.  Lost export revenue has been offset through increased exports 
to the West African sub-region by firms benefiting from free zone status. Togo is a member of 
the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) and of the Economic Community 
of West African States (ECOWAS). As a small country, another aspect of its successful 
development lies in its ability to capitalize on greater integration with its neighbors, notably by 
further developing its deep-water port (the only one in the region) as a shipping hub through 
private investments.  
Togo’s current economic situation has been significantly affected by its recent history. 
The 
prolonged period of political instability, the weak economic and public financial management, 
and the related withdrawal of donor support have negatively affected the country’s economic 
performance and dramatically reduced living standards for large segments of the population.
 
To 
support the government’s financing needs, arrears were accumulated over many years and the 
large state-owned companies were tapped to provide advances to the Treasury. The situation was 
aggravated by pervasive mismanagement leading to large losses by these state-owned enterprises 
Page  2
(SOEs), in particular, in the cotton and phosphate sectors. As a result of the dire financial 
situation of the main parastatals, several banks were burdened by an excessive share of 
nonperforming loans
––in addition to being severely undercapitalized.  
2.  Operation Objectives  
 
The main objective of the ERGG-4 is to support Government-owned reforms to improve 
public financial management and restore performance in key sectors of the economy
.
Specifically, the ERGG-4 focuses on continuing and deepening policy reforms initiated by the 
Government under the ERGG, ERGG-2 and ERGG-3 to strengthen budget preparation, 
execution, controls and public procurement. It would also contribute to creating the conditions 
for increased private sector confidence through measures to improve governance, transparency 
and efficiency in the phosphate, cotton, and energy sectors. The inclusion of actions to improve 
management in selected public enterprises is highly relevant to the operation, as this is likely to 
provide additional fiscal space and increase investments in those sectors. This would lead over 
time to strengthened fiscal sustainability, improved economic governance and growth, and 
enhanced transparency of State institutions and processes. The resources made available by this 
grant will provide financial support to the Government to implement activities that would 
otherwise be beyond its fiscal capabilities, including financing the provision of basic public 
services. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement  
 
The operation directly supports the implementation of the PRSP and provides financing for 
budgeted fiscal needs during 2011. The reforms supported by the operation are critical to the 
Government’s ability to use public resources efficiently and effectively to support the country’s 
economic and social recovery. 
4. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
28 
 Total 
28 
 
Tranches (1 tranche, $m.)  
First 
Tranche 
         
 
 
 
 
28
Total 
 
          
 
 
 
 
28 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements  
 
The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the administration of the Grant. 
 
Page  3
6. 
Risks and Risk Mitigation  
 
The main risks associated with the ERGG-4 are: 
 
Political risk
.
The peaceful outturn of the 2010 presidential elections has clearly improved the 
socio-political outlook and hence reduced the political risk presented by Togo. The main 
opposition party is represented in the Government which is expected to promote the broad 
acceptance of critical reforms and will hopefully ease potential social tensions resulting from 
reform measures like retrenchments in state-owned enterprises. Nonetheless, a setback in the 
consolidation of the democracy happened recently with 9 members of the main opposition 
party, "Union des Forces de Changement (UFC) excluded from Parliament due to the split in 
the party with the defection of most of its members to the newly created "Alliance Nationale 
pour le Changement"(ANC). The PRSP process provided additional support to foster a national 
consensus across Togolese society and among Government representatives on a medium-term 
reform agenda. Nevertheless, reform efforts aimed at improving governance of the public sector 
and public enterprises could still face resistance. More transparent and accountable practices in 
the phosphates, energy and cotton sectors will enhance governance and reduce the scope for 
vested interests to undermine reform effort in these critical sectors. In addition, the proposed 
prior actions focus on areas in which the Government has already demonstrated its commitment 
and ownership in the previous ERGGs. Close coordination with the IMF, AfDB, EU, and 
bilateral donors and intensified sector dialogue will help ensure that the Government continues 
with its determination to implement the reforms in these sectors 
 
Macroeconomic risks
 to the economic recovery could stem from the vulnerability of the 
Togolese economy to exogenous shocks (mostly climate and commodity price shocks), or from 
a
slower than expected rebound from the global economic recovery. Fiscal sustainability can be 
jeopardized if authorities do not resist the strong pressures to increase public spending after the 
HIPC completion point. Pursuing sustainable fiscal policies will require discipline and a 
targeted public communication effort. There is also the risk that ongoing revenue mobilization 
reforms will not generate the expected increase in revenues and that investments in 
infrastructure will be pursued with excessive domestic financing, thus driving up borrowing 
costs and crowding out private investment. In addition, the extent to which the restructuring of 
the Togolese banking sector will lead to increased lending to the economy remains uncertain. 
Togo is also exposed to the impact of the euro appreciation on its major international exports, 
phosphates and cotton. To mitigate the macroeconomic risks, the IMF and IDA will continue to 
closely monitor Togo’s macroeconomic performance, including providing ongoing assistance to 
the financial sector reform program through the IDA-financed Financial Reform and 
Governance TA Project. 
 
Fiduciary risks
.
Despite recent reforms, fiduciary risk remains from possible corruption or 
Government’s failure to make effective and efficient use of the public resources. After 
improvements through measures taken under the previous ERGGs, including the creation of an 
internal audit unit and the Court of Accounts
,
improvement in fiduciary standards remains a 
central objective of the proposed operation. The prior actions of the present operation are 
expected to mitigate the fiduciary risk, and effective implementation will be closely monitored.
 
Page  4
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects  
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
Togo remains one of the world's poorest countries, ranking 139 out of 169 in the 2010 
UNDP Human Development Report, 
although this ranking constitutes a marked improvement 
over the 2009 ranking (159 out of 182 countries).
 
In 2006, 
an estimated 62 percent of Togo’s 
population lived below the poverty line, with the rural areas showing the highest share of poor 
people (74 percent versus 37 percent in urban areas). These 2006 findings do not reflect the 
shocks that affected the country in 2008 and 2009, in particular the rise in food and oil prices, as 
well as the flooding and the financial crisis and global economic slowdown. Furthermore, 
economic growth has not been strong relative to population growth and, as a result, GDP per 
capita only grew by 0.7 percent in 2009 (and it is estimated to grow by 0.8 percent in 2010). 
Partial poverty estimates in the city of Lomé, based on the 2008 Household Expenditure 
Survey, indicate that there was a small increase in poverty in Lomé from 24.5 percent in 2006 
to 25.1 percent in 2008.
\03
Environment Aspects  
 
The reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are part of a broader 
program of actions to promote governance, including strengthening of public financial 
management systems, and the recovery of key sectors of the economy, notably cotton, 
phosphates and energy. 
The governance reforms, dealing mainly with economic and 
institutional issues, are not likely to have significant negative impacts on the country’s 
environment and natural resources; no direct effects on the environment are expected:   
·
first, as regards the cotton sector, the analytical accounting system and the strengthening of 
the farmers’ representation  at the board of NSCT merely enhances transparency in the 
accounting system and promotes the representation of the producers at the Board of the new 
company; 
·
second, the phosphate sector measure to prepare a detailed action plan and budget of the 
activities that are to be implemented under the EITI have the objective of enhancing 
governance by improving transparency and accountability; and 
·
third, as regards the energy sector, the adjustment of electricity tariffs aims at improving the 
financial situation of CEET. 
In order to facilitate the integration of environmental considerations into the 
implementation of development policies, the Bank helped the Government to prepare a 
Country Environmental Analysis (CEA).  
The CEA identifies the main environmental 
challenges that will need to be addressed in order to maximize the welfare impact of the poverty 
reduction strategy.  In particular, the CEA addresses the potential adverse environmental and 
social impacts that could be associated with increased investment and production in the cotton, 
mining and energy sectors, and recommends measures that will help to eliminate or mitigate 
these impacts
.
Page  5
8. Contact point: 
 
Contact
:
Maria Manuela Do Rosario Francisco 
Title
:
Sr. Country Economist 
Tel
:
(202) 473-8209 
Fax
:
(202) 473-8136 
Email
:
mfrancisco@worldbank.org
Borrower : 
 
Contact:   Adji Otèth AYASSOR 
Title:        Minister of Economy and Finance 
Tel:          (228) 221 35 54/221 01 38 
Email:      
ayassorao@yahoo.fr
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
