                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2396




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA- H6560)

                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18 MILLION
                       (US$28 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO

                          THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                  FOR THE

            ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT 4


                                 June 22, 2012




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 15, 2012)

                           Currency Unit = FCFA
                           US$1.00 = 516 FCFA

                              FISCAL YEAR

                         January 1 – December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB     African Development Bank
ANC      Alliance Nationale pour le Changement (National Alliance for Change)
CEB      Compagnie Électrique du Bénin (Electric Company of Benin)
CEET     Compagnie d’Énergie Électrique du Bénin (Togo Electric Energy Company)
CFAF     CFA Francs
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Report
DPO      Development Policy Operation
DNMCP    Direction National du Contrôle des Marchés Publics (General Procurement
         Department)
ECF      Extended Credit Facility
EITI     Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
ERGG     Economic Recovery and Governance Grant
ERGC     Economic Recovery and Governance Credit
EU       European Union
GDP      Growth Domestic Product
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
LICUS    Low Income Countries Under Stress
MDRI     Multilateral Debt Reduction Initiative
MEF      Ministère de l’Économie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and
         Finance)
NSCT     Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du Togo (New Togo Cotton Company)
OHADA    Organisation pour l’Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique
         (Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law)
PDO      Project Development Objective
PEFA     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFAR   Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PFM      Public Financial Management
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RPT      Rassemblement du peuple togolais (Togolese People‟s Rally)
SAFER    Société Autonome de Financement de l’Entretien Routier (Autonomous
         Company to Finance Road Maintenance)


                                   ii
SIGFIP   Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques (Integrated Public
         Finance Management System)
SGFP     Stratégie de Gestion des Finances Publiques (Public Finance Management
         Strategy)
SNPT     Société Nationale des Phosphates du Togo (New Phosphate Company of
         Togo)
SOTOCO   Société Togolaise de Coton (Togo Cotton Company)
UCF      Union de Forces de Changement (Union of Forces for Change)
WAEMU    West African Economic and Monetary Union




                     Vice President:      Makhtar Diop (AFRVP)
                   Country Director:     Madani M. Tall (AFCF2)
                     Sector Director:    Marcelo Giugale (AFTPM)
                    Sector Manager:      Miria Pigato (AFTP4)
                  Task Team Leader:      Johannes Hoogeveen (AFTP4)
                  ICR Team Leader:       Johannes Hoogeveen (AFTP4)




                                   iii
                                                         TOGO

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULT REPORT ON
         THE ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT IV

                                                    CONTENTS



A. Basic Information ...................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. v
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes.......................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ................................................................. x
H. Restructuring ............................................................................................................. x
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................... 18

Annexes:

Annex 1.       Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............ 21
Annex 2.       Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) ............................................................. 23
Annex 3.       Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) ..................................... 24
Annex 4.       Summary of Borrower‟s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................... 25
Annex 5.       Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 26
Annex 6.       List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 27
Annex 7.       Country Map ................................................................................................ 29




                                                          iv
                                      DATA SHEET

                                     A. Basic Information
                                                                            Economic Recovery
Country:                Togo                      Program Name:
                                                                            and Gov. Grant 4
Program ID:             P122806                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H6560
ICR Date:               25/06/2012                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                       Borrower:
                                                                            TOGO
Original Total
                        SDR 18M                   Disbursed Amount:         SDR 18M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         SDR 18M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
None

                                        B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       15-Dec-2010      Effectiveness:          31-05-2011          31-05-2011
Appraisal:            14-Feb-2011      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05-Apr-2011      Mid-term Review:
                                       Closing:                12/31/2011          12/31/2011

                                     C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:         Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                     Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                             v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

                                  D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     50                  50
Crops                                                                 20                  20
Mining and other extractive                                           10                  10
Power                                                                 20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural policies and institutions                                       50                  50
Other rural development                                               20                  20
Other public sector governance                                        15                  15
Export development and competitiveness                                15                  15

                                          E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                       Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Miria A. Pigato                      Miria A. Pigato
                                                                Maria Manuela Do Rosario
Program Team Leader:       Johannes G. Hoogeveen
                                                                Francisco
ICR Team Leader:           Johannes Hoogeveen
                           Yemdaogo Tougma and
ICR Primary Authors:
                           Johannes Hoogeveen




                                              vi
                              F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)


To support Government-owned reforms to improve governance, transparency and
efficiency in public financial management as well as advance structural reforms aimed at
strengthening key sectors of the economy (phosphates, cotton and energy).


Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised           Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target          Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years
                   Budget execution:
Indicator 1 :      Number of months in advance spending units receive ceilings on expenditure
                   commitments
Value
                   0                        2                                  0
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
                   2010                     2011                               2011
                   0% achieved.
Comments
                   The cash ceiling committee meets and does set cash ceilings. However these
(incl. %
                   ceilings are not communicated to the spending departments. While the
achievement)
                   authorities are expected to address this issue following ICR discussions, this
                   indicator has not been met.




                                                vii
                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                         Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
                   Public procurement:
Indicator 2 :      Percentage of procurement notices and contract awards reviewed by the
                   General Procurement Department publicly available
                                          All procurement
                                          notices and
                                                                             100% of
                                          contract awards
Value                                                                        procurement
                                          reviewed by the
(quantitative or   0%                                                        notices are publicly
                                          General
Qualitative)                                                                 available
                                          Procurement
                                          Department are
                                          publicly available
Date achieved      2010                   2011                               2011
                   100% achieved.

                   100% of procurement notices are published either in Togo Presse or in the
                   procurement newspaper. 65% are published in both. The 100% publication rate
                   is explained by the fact that publication of the procurement notice is a
                   condition for the approval of the procurement award by the General
                   Procurement Department: procurement awards without a public notice are
                   rejected.

                   37% of the procurement awards are published. This percentage is lower
                   because publication, while a requirement of the General Procurement
Comments
                   Department, cannot be enforced. For enforcement it is necessary to put in place
(incl. %
                   a legal review of the final award which only approves the purchase after the
achievement)
                   award has been published. This legal review will be implemented in 2012.
                   Once this is the case, 100% publication of procurement awards can also be
                   expected.

                   As 100% completion of the latter element requires an extra step in the
                   procurement process which was not foreseen by the prior action (the
                   development of the procurement website and the publication of a Procurement
                   Newspaper), nor discussed by the team, this indicator is considered 100%
                   achieved because 100% of procurement notices are being published, while the
                   authorities have exerted adequate action to arrive at 100% publication of the
                   procurement awards.
Indicator 3 :      Cotton sector: Reduction in NSCT‟s costs
                                           5 % reduction in
                                                                            Reduction in unit
Value                                      the unit cost per
                                                                            costs by 17%
(quantitative or                           ton compared to
                                                                            between 2009/10
Qualitative)                               the 2010-11
                                                                            and 2010/11.
                                           season
Comments           100% achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)       The study by Nicolas Gergely (December 2011) on production costs, puts the
                   cotton production cost in 2010/11 at FCFA 415/ton. It is composed a fixed cost


                                             viii
                   element of FCFA 4.4 billion and a variable component of 192 FCFA/ton.
                   Production was 46,810 tons, so that the fixed cost per ton was: FCFA 223/ton.

                   For 2009/10 the fixed component identical to that of 2010/11 (FCFA 4.4
                   billion). As production was lower (30,507), fixed cost per ton was higher
                   FCFA 342/ton. Variable cost on the other hand was comparable to what was
                   achieved in 2010/11 and can be put at FCFA 160/ton which is the normal
                   variable cost. Total production cost in 2009/10 was thus between FCFA
                   502/ton.

                   Cost in 2009/10 was FCFA 502/ton. Cost in 2010/11 was FCFA 41/ton.
                   Consequently the reduction in cost is 17% exceeding the target of a 5%
                   reduction.
                   Phosphate sector: Number of criteria met towards becoming a candidate
Indicator 4 :
                   country
Value
(quantitative or
                   4                       5                                   5
Qualitative)

Date achieved      2009                    2010                                2010
                   100% achieved.
Comments
(incl. %           This indicator was met once the detailed action plan and budget for activities to
achievement)       be implemented under EITI-Togo were adopted. Following its adoption Togo
                   formally became an EITI candidate country (October 20, 2010).
                   Electricity sector:
Indicator 5 :
                   Increase in the turnover of CEET (excluding Contour Global)
Value
                                           7% increase                         22% increase
(quantitative or
                                           during 2011                         during 2011
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              12/31/2011                          12/31/2011
                   100% achieved.

                   Effective January 1, 2011 a tariff adjustment was implemented of 10 percent
                   for low voltage electricity, of 20% for medium voltage electricity; the tariff
Comments
                   increase for the low-income bracket was limited to 5%. As a consequence,
(incl. %
                   turnover (excluding Contour Global) increased from FCFA 55 bln. in 2010 to
achievement)
                   FCFA 67 bln. in 2011 or an increase in turnover of 22%. If Contour Global is
                   included, turnover increased by 34%. As a consequence of the increase in
                   turnover, the operating loss of CEET of FCFA 3.8 bln. registered in 2010
                   turned into a profit of FCFA 1.4 bln. in 2011.




                                               ix
                    G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    06/23/2012    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            28


                                   H. Restructuring
Not Applicable.




                                         x
1.    Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.     During the decade between the mid 1970s and the mid 1980s, Togo built a good
reputation as a dynamic business hub. However, the decade of the 1990s and the first half of the
2000s were marked by poor economic management and considerable political and social tension
leading to the suspension of World Bank assistance in 2002. Following the death of president Etienne
Eyadema Gnassingbé who ruled the country for 38 years, one of his sons, Fauré Gnassingbé, took
over. This was heavily contested and Fauré Gnassingbé stood down and called elections which he
won two months later. These elections were contested by the opposition and said to have been unfair.

2.      Togo made an important break with its past in August 2006 when the ruling party
reached a Global Political Accord with the opposition. Togo undertook a national reconciliation
process that culminated in multiparty parliamentary elections in October 14, 2007. The subsequently
installed Government was politically inclusive and continued the process of political and economic
reforms that paved the way for reengagement with the international community (reengagement with
the Fund happened in 2006; the Bank followed in 2008).

3.      Togo reached a major milestone in its move towards democratic governance with
another presidential election in March 2010. Faure Gnassingbé was reappointed following an
election considered by observers to have been generally free and fair. In May 2010, a government of
national unity was formed led by the ruling party, the "Rassemblement du Peuple Togolais (RPT)".
For the first time in Togo's history, the main opposition party "Union des Forces du Changement –
UFC" agreed to participate in a government led by the RPT. However, this caused a deep split in the
UFC with a good number of its members rejecting the reconciliation and leaving the party to form a
new party, "Alliance Nationale pour le Changement (ANC)." In November 2010, while ERGG-4 was
being prepared, nine members of parliament who joined the newly created ANC were stripped of
their seats and replaced. This led to political friction and tension between ANC and the Government
and to some weekend demonstrations. Beyond that it did not deeply affect the political atmosphere.

4.     The new political environment laid the basis for another milestone: reaching the
completion point of the enhanced HIPC initiative on December 14, 2010. The new inclusive
government was reform-oriented and actively implemented economic reforms. The various triggers
for HIPC were achieved, thus laying the basis for debt reduction and creating additional fiscal space
for poverty reduction. Reaching HIPC gave the country a moral boost and facilitated the
normalization of relations with the international community.

5.      Reaching HIPC required considerable efforts from a civil service whose capacity had
been reduced by years of poor economic management. None the less the various HIPC triggers
were successfully completed including (i) the adoption of a mechanism to track public expenditures
for poverty reduction (ii) the appointment of judges to the Court of Accounts (iii) the adoption of a
decree creating the Procurement Regulatory Authority in conformity with WAEMU directives (iv)
regular public reporting of payments and revenues received by the Government from the phosphates
sector in line with this aspect of the EITI criteria and (v) the publication on the government‟s website
of the external and domestic public debt.

                                                   1
6.      Another milestone attained at the time of appraisal was the fact that the authorities
managed to restore macroeconomic stability and had been able to maintain a more or less
balanced budget, even though they had to deal with the consequences of major natural
disasters in 2008 and 2009. The Government‟s reform efforts started to pay off and growth rates
which had been positive since 2006, finally started to exceed population growth in 2009. Early 2010
there were signs that GDP growth was accelerating further, even though it remained below the
government‟s own targets as formulated in the PRSP. Economic growth reached 3.2 percent in 2009
and 4 percent in 2010. Growth was driven mainly by the extractive industries, especially
clinker/cement, commerce and public works linked to public investment. At appraisal Togo was still
one of the poorest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa with an income per capita at US$490 in 2010
(World Bank‟s Atlas methodology), significantly below the average for Sub-Saharan Africa
(US$1,175) and Low-Income Countries (US$523).1

7.      The Fourth Economic and Recovery Grant (ERGG-4) of SDR 18 million (US$ 28
million) came at a time when much effort had been extended to reach the HIPC completion
point. The challenge of achieving HIPC had given a major impetus to the reform program and the
authorities achieved much in a short span of time: the public financial management system had been
overhauled, oversight bodies such as the Court of Accounts and the IGF (Inspection Générale des
Finances) had been created, the bankrupt cotton company (SOTOCO) had been liquidated and a new
one created, an investment program to revamp phosphate production had been developed and was
being implemented, critical shortages in electricity supply had been addressed through a contract with
a private producer (Contour Global) etc. etc. Once the HIPC completion point was reached a major
incentive for reform disappeared, creating space for delays in the implementation of the reform
program (such as the envisaged privatization of the cotton company, or the issuing of a third
telecommunications license).2 In this context the value added of ERGG-4 was that it did allow the
Bank to continue its dialogue with the authorities and to try to keep the momentum for reform up.

8.       ERGG-4 came at a time when the macro-economic outlook was positive. The Togolese
authorities were successfully implementing a 3-year IMF supported ECF arrangement and growth
was accelerating from 3.2 percent in 2009 to 3.4 percent in 2010. It was projected to reach 3.7
percent in 2011. Monetary developments were favorable, and inflation which had been 2.2 percent in
2010 was projected to remain at about the same level in 2011. The 2011 budget had a pro-growth
fiscal stance by emphasizing public investment (public investment was expected to reach 9.9 percent
of GDP) without compromising fiscal and debt sustainability. The primary budget deficit for instance,
was expected to remain limited to -0.4 percent of GDP.




1
    Source: (DDP) 2010. “Sub-Saharan Africa? refers to “Developing Sub-Saharan Africa? only.
2
  The Bank‟s concern about delays in the reform program were very clearly expressed in a speech by the
Country Manager, Hervé Assah, during the opening of the workshop to review the Government‟s reform
program, when he articulated that » … je dois vous avouer que depuis un certain temps, la Banque mondiale
est plutôt un peu préoccupée, parce qu‟elle a observé une certaine lenteur dans la mise en œuvre de certaines
réformes. C‟est pourquoi, nous souhaitons attirer votre attention sur les faits suivants ».


                                                       2
           Table 1: Key Macro-economic indicators at time of appraisal (March 2011)

Indicator                                                               2009     2010       2011
Real GDP growth (annual percentage change)                                3.2      3.4        3.7
Real GDP per capita growth (annual percentage change)                     0.7      0.8        1.2
Overall fiscal balance, payment order basis, incl. grants (percent of
                                                                          -2.8     -2.8       -2.7
GDP)
Domestic primary balance                                                  -0.4     -0.1       -0.4
Current account balance, including official transfers
                                                                          -7.1     -7.7       -7.4
(percentage of GDP)
Exports (percentage of GDP)                                              34.4      34.1       33.2
Imports (percentage of GDP)                                              49.1      51.4       51.4
CPI annual average (annual percentage change)                             2.0       2.2        2.0
Total public sector debt (percentage of GDP)                             67.7      32.1       27.5
External public debt (percentage of GDP)                                 51.8      14.6       15.1
External public debt service as percentage of exports                     5.3       6.0        3.2
Source: ERGG-4 Program Document

9.     ERGG-4 supported the Governments own reform program as reflected in the PRSP and
focused on the same two outcome areas as its three predecessors: (i) strengthening of
governance; and (ii) consolidation of the bases for strong and sustained growth including. Even
though Togo was rated at moderate risk of debt distress at the time of appraisal (post-HIPC), IDA
funds were provided on grant terms since Togo was rated at high risk of debt distress at the time the
IDA grant allocation system was agreed with the IDA donors for the IDA 15 period (FY09-FY11).
Not only was ERGG-4 aligned with the PRSP, the grant was in line with the Bank‟s Interim Strategy
Note for Togo for the period FY08-10 presented to the IDA Board on May 29, 2008 and was
coordinated with assistance provided to the Government through the LICUS TF Grant for Economic
Recovery and International Reengagement, the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, the AfDB and EU budget
support operations, and the IMF‟s ECF program.

1.2    Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

10.    The objective of ERGG-4 was to support Government-owned reforms to improve
governance, transparency and efficiency in public financial management as well as to advance
structural reforms aimed at strengthening key sectors in the economy (phosphates, cotton and
energy). More specifically ERGG-4 focused on: (i) strengthening governance with the aim of
improving budget formulation, execution and controls, and public procurement; and (ii) consolidating
the bases for strong and sustained growth including through reforms in key sectors of the economy
(phosphate, cotton and energy sectors).




                                                   3
1.3    Revised PDO

11.    The Program Development Objectives and the result indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

12.    The overall objective of Togo’s first full PRSP (2009-2011) was achieving sustainable
and meaningful improvements in the living conditions of the general public by focusing on the
causes of poverty. To this end, the PRSP identified three core areas for progress: (i) political and
economic governance; (ii) economic recovery and sustainable development; and (iii) social sectors,
human resources, and employment. These areas were also reflected in the Bank‟s Interim Strategy
Note. ERGG-4, like its three predecessors included policy reforms related to areas (i) and (ii) of the
PRSP, in particular strengthening public financial management with a view of improving budget
formulation, execution and controls, and public procurement; and consolidating the bases for strong
and sustained growth through reforms in key sectors of the economy.

Policy Area I: Strengthening Public Financial Management

13.     In the policy area of strengthening governance ERGG-4 focused on four themes that
were prioritized in the 2008 PEFA and the 2009 PEMFAR: (i) harmonizing the PFM framework
with other WAEMU countries through the preparation of decrees and laws to implement six
WAEMU directives pertaining to public finance; (ii) consolidating improvements in public
accountability and budget planning through the publication of quarterly budget execution reports, the
submission to parliament of the draft 2011 budget law with medium-term expenditure frameworks
(MTEF) for education, health and agriculture sectors and by sending timely information to spending
units on ceilings for expenditure commitments; (iii) improving external controls of the budget
through the submission by four state-owned enterprises (SOTOCO, CEET, SNPT, Togo telecom) of
their financial statements for 2007 and 2008 to the Court of Accounts and (iv) enhancing
procurement controls by ensuring the publication of procurement notices and awards on the
procurement website and in a newly established Procurement Journal.

Policy Area II: Supporting the Bases for Economic Growth

14.     In this policy area, ERGG-4 focused on three sectors which are critical to Togo‟s economy:
cotton, the main cash crop, phosphates, the main raw material export and electricity. In the cotton
sector, attention was given to improving the efficiency and transparency of the company in charge of
the cotton supply chain: NSCT. This was done by promoting the implementation of an analytical
accounting system in NSCT and through training of representatives of the cotton producers (who
hold a 40 percent share in NSCT) in how to effectively participate in the NSCT board. In phosphates
the focus was on enhancing transparency and accountability by ensuring that Togo meets the criteria
to become an EITI candidate country. In the energy sector improving the financial sustainability of
the electricity company (CEET) through increased electricity prices, was the objective of ERGG-4.




                                                  4
1.5       Revised Policy Areas.

15.       The policy areas were not revised.

1.6       Other significant changes:

16.    There were no changes in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule,
and funding allocations of this operation.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

17. ERGG-4 was a single tranche operation. The operation was approved on 05 April 2011 and
became effective on 31 May 2011. All 9 prior actions were fully implemented (Table 1) at the time
the operation was submitted to the Board of the World Bank (March 1, 2011).

       Table 2: Togo ERRG - Four prior actions and status at project submission to the Board

      ERGG-4 Prior Actions                                  Implementation Status on March 1, 2011
                                                            according to the program document
      1. Preparation of draft decrees and laws to           Implemented. The decrees for the 6 UEMOA
      implement the 6 UEMOA Directives pertaining to        directives had been drafted and were expected
      public finance.                                       to soon be discussed by the Council of
                                                            Ministers.
      2. (i) Publication of the 2010 quarterly budget       Implemented. The budget execution reports for
      execution reports and (ii) submission to Parliament   2010 had been published. The 2011 budget was
      of the draft 2011 budget law with a medium-term       approved by Parliament on December 22, 2010
      expenditure framework (MTEF) for each of the          along with the three sectoral MTEFs (health,
      education, health and agriculture sectors.            education, and agriculture).
      3. Adoption of a treasury management planning Implemented. The decree creating the new
      order.                                          institutional framework      for     treasury
                                                      management planning had been adopted.
      4. Submission by the SOTOCO‟s liquidator, CEET, Implemented. SOTOCO‟s liquidator, CEET,
      SNPT, and Togo télécom of their respective 2007 SNPT, and Togo Télécom did submit their 2007
      and 2008 financial statements to the Court of and 2008 financial statements to the Court of
      Accounts.                                       Accounts.

      5. Development and operation of the procurement Implemented. The website was created
      website, and publication and circulation of the www.marchespublics-togo.com and the journal
      Procurement Journal.                            published its first issue in December 2010.


      6. Implementation of an analytical accounting Implemented. An analytical accounting system
      system for NSCT which is consistent with the had been implemented in NSCT.
      recommendations of the Assessment Report.



                                                       5
   ERGG-4 Prior Actions                                  Implementation Status on March 1, 2011
                                                         according to the program document
   7. Provision of training to farmer leaders toward a Implemented. Farmer leaders had received
   better participation within the NSCT board.           training toward a better participation within the
                                                         NSCT board.
   8. Adoption of a detailed action plan and budget for Implemented. A detailed action plan and
   the activities that are to be implemented under EITI- budget for the activities that were to be
   Togo.                                                 implemented under EITI-Togo was adopted,
                                                         thus completing the last requirement to become
                                                         eligible to be an EITI candidate country. Togo
                                                         became a candidate country on October 20,
                                                         2010.
   9. Adoption of the Utility Tariffs Adjustment Order. Implemented. The government adopted
                                                         legislation to adjust utility tariffs on December
                                                         2, 2010. The adjustment became effective on
                                                         January 1, 2011.
 Source: ERGG-4 program document

18. There were five key indicators linked to the prior actions, two of which were related to the
PFM reforms supported by the operation and one for each of the real sectors supported by ERGG-4.
Performance against the indicators has been mixed. The indicator on budget execution has not been
met; the indicators for public procurement and phosphate have been met, while indicators for cotton
and electricity were exceeded by a factor three.

                           Table 3: ERGG-4 - Key Indicators of Outcome

                    Budget execution:
                    Number of months in advance the spending units receive ceilings on expenditure
Indicator 1 :       commitments
                    Baseline: no ceilings are provided
                    Target: 2 months
                    Public procurement:
                    Percentage of procurement notices and contract awards reviewed by the General
Indicator 2 :       Procurement Department publicly available
                    Baseline: 0 %
                    Target: 100%
                    Cotton sector:
Indicator 3 :       Reduction in NSCT‟s costs
                    Target: 5 % reduction in the unit cost per ton compared to the 2010-11 season
                    Phosphate sector:
                    Number of criteria met towards becoming a candidate country
Indicator 4 :
                    Baseline: 4
                    Target: 5
Indicator 5 :       Electricity sector:
                    Increase the turnover of CEET (excluding Contour Global)
                    Target: 7% increase in turnover of CEET
Source: ERGG-4 program document.



                                                     6
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

External Factors

19. The economic crises in the US and the European Union, and the political crisis in Côte
d’Ivoire, had little impact on Togo’s economy and the rate of GDP growth for 2011 turned out to
be quite favorable: 4.6 percent. Trade links between Togo and the US and the European are limited
(most exports go to the region or to the far-East) and the crises in Europe and North America did not
affect Togo much. Togo was also largely shielded from a negative impact of the crisis in Côte
d‟Ivoire because less than 1% of Togolese exports are directed to the Ivorian market. Rather, the
political crisis in Côte d‟Ivoire contributed to increased port activity and transit trade as some imports
destined for Côte d‟Ivoire were rerouted through the port of Lomé. Another positive external factor
were the world market prices for cotton and phosphates (two of Togo‟s main exports). These prices
became very favorable; cotton prices even reached their highest levels ever. A negative external
factor affecting Togo‟s budget sustainability were high international fuel prices. Fuel is subsidized in
Togo and high prices on the international market meant that the Government had to spend about 2
percent of GDP (9 percent of the budget) to keep the domestic fuel prices low.

Factors under Government Control

20. Two factors contributed to the successful implementation of the program: government
ownership and continued political and macro-economic stability; one factor, limited implementation
capacity held the program back.
Strong Government Ownership
21. The reforms proposed in the operation were based on the Government's first full Poverty
Reduction Strategy adopted in July 2009. The PFM actions were originally identified in the 2008
PEFA and 2009 PEMFAR and were included in the reform strategy developed by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance in September 2010 and subsequently adopted by the Council of Ministers. By
drawing its policy actions from the Government‟s own reform program, ERGG-4 was assured of
strong ownership for its policy actions.
Political and Macro-Economic Stability

22.     Following the successful presidential elections of 2010 and the formation of a
government of national unity, the Government managed to maintain a positive and stable
political climate. Some tensions arose in 2011 with the defection of some members of the main
opposition party (UFC) to a new political party (ANC) which led to their exclusion from parliament,
but this did not have too much impact on the overall political climate. Also the public hearings at the
National Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission on past political violence, and the resumption
of political dialogue on institutional and constitutional reforms, did not lead to any upheaval.
Meanwhile prudent macro-economic management prevailed and despite large outlays for fuel
subsidies, the primary budget deficit was kept to -1.0 percent of GDP, inflation was kept to 3.6
percent while the overall economic growth rate stood at 4.6 percent (originally it had been forecast at
3.7 percent). These factors created a stable economic and political climate, and in the absence of any
major crises, the authorities could pay due attention to implementing the reform program.



                                                    7
Implementation Capacity
23. Fifteen years of economic crisis did take its toll on the public service and despite efforts by
the authorities to rebuild Togo’s institutions and to enhance human capacity, professional staff
remains in short supply and institutional capacity continues to be weak. To reach HIPC
completion the capacity of the civil service had been stretched which may have contributed to a post-
HIPC relaxing of the sense of urgency for reform. Moreover, it was realized that some reforms, that
looked straightforward initially (privatization of the cotton company; liberalization of the
telecommunications market) required approaches that were more suited for Togo‟s economic reality.
So while there was on the one hand a sense of satisfaction with what had been achieved and on the
other the realization that some reforms would be more demanding than initially expected, space
opened leading to delays in the reform process. For instance, progress to strengthen the cotton
company (NSCT), through privatization or otherwise, effectively stalled; the issuing of a third mobile
telecommunications license was postponed pending the formulation of a new telecommunications
strategy and the privatization of four state owned banks proceeded very slowly. Some if this could be
mitigated through dialogue and the provision of technical assistance, but the inability to achieve some
of the results indicators can be traced to capacity constraints.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

24.     The Ministry of Economy and Finance has been entrusted with overall responsibility for
monitoring and evaluating the Government’s reform program. Consequently monitoring the
implementation of ERGG-4 falls under this Ministry in particular by the Permanent Secretariat for
Policy Reform (Comité de Suivi des Programmes et Réformes), a high-level team within the Ministry
of Finance, headed by a Permanent Secretary. This arrangement has the advantage that PFM reforms
are directly under the control of the Comité de Suivi. Reforms other than the PFM reforms which are
implemented by parastatals fall under the oversight of the ministers in charge of Agriculture (cotton
sector) and Mines and Energy (phosphates and electricity), and the Comité de Suivi regularly
obtained information on progress made from these sector ministries, or directly from the parastatals
involved.

25.     Implementation went smoothly also because the entities, and sector specialists covered
by the operation were involved in the preparation of ERGG-4. Bank missions to supervise the
implementation of ERGG-4 (and to also prepare ERGC-5) held in October and December 2011,
reviewed progress made with the Permanent Secretary in charge of reforms and with the entities
involved in the operation. Missions from the relevant technical units of the Africa Region and the
follow-up country office ensured a regular dialogue on implementation progress during which issues
requiring attention were flagged and discussed. IMF missions helped monitor adherence to a sound
macroeconomic framework. The Government prepared regular information on the implementation of
the reforms and published the PRSP global report which also contained information to monitor the
achievements of ERGG-4.

2.4   Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:

26.     ERGG-4 was the fourth development policy operation, which in-line with its
predecessors, continued to pursue the objectives of good governance, transparency and
efficiency. The operation laid the basis for a follow-on development policy operation which, in line

                                                  8
with the PRSP will operate in the same areas. ERGG-4 was a stand-alone operation, as the PRSP was
to end in 2011 and a new PRSP was about to be developed. It was expected that the next
development policy operation would be programmatic as the reforms initiated by the Togolese
authorities require longer term and sustained engagement. But as the preparation of a new PRSP has
been (it is expected to be released in the summer of 2012) the next development policy operation
became another stand-alone operation. To ensure continuity, while remaining within the framework
set out for stand-alone operations, the ERGG-4 team agreed during the ROC meeting to identify a set
of reform measures to be considered by the future development policy operation.

27.    As the Government did maintain commitment to its reform program, and despite the
fact that some of the momentum had been lost, a follow up stand alone development policy
operation was indeed designed. It was approved to the Board on May 24, 2012. This operation
(ERGC-5) is a credit. Its objectives are aligned with its predecessors, but with a shift in emphasis
from PFM reform (of which the IMF (supported by the EU) will take a lead under its new ECF
program) to growth and improving the business environment. ERGC-5 focuses on four real sectors:
energy, cotton, banking and telecommunications.

3.    Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

Consistency with Government priorities:

28. ERGG-4 was consistent with the Government’s priorities as outlined in the full PRSP
(2009-2011) and in the Letter of Development Policy. The full PRSP lays out the strategy for
growth and poverty reduction for the period 2009-2011 and is coupled with a Plan of Priority Actions
(PAP) which details the multi-year planning of actions, programs and measures. Among the pillars of
the PRSP, the first two were supported by ERGG-4. Concretely, ERGG-4 drew heavily from actions
identified in the reform strategy focusing on public finance (Stratégie de Gestion des Finances
Publiques - SGFP), which itself was accompanied by a detailed 2011-2013 action plan (PA/SGFP)
prepared by the Ministry of Economy and Finance in 2010 and adopted by Presidential Decree.

Program design:

29. As was the case with the three previous ERGGs, the design of ERGG-4 was informed by
extensive diagnostic work (2008 PEFA, 2009 PEMFAR, 2010 Country Economic Memorandum
and several sector studies). The continued focus on public financial management and preparation
and reforms in key sectors of the economy was justified by the notion that these issues were crucial
for economic recovery and development. In view of limited capacity for reform the design was kept
simple and emphasis was placed on continuity and deepening of reforms.

Relation with Bank Strategy:

30. ERGG-4 was designed to support the objectives of the Interim Strategy Note (ISN), which
itself draws on the PRSP. The three pillars of the ISN are (i) support the normalization of relations

                                                 9
with the World Bank through the clearance of arrears, set the stage for provision of regular IDA
resources and pave the way towards debt relief under the HIPC Initiative and MRDI; (ii) improve
public financial management and governance in key sector institutions; and (iii) assistance to address
critical social needs. ERGG-4 was thus designed under the second pillar of the ISN: strengthening
economic governance.

Complementarities with other Bank activities:

31. ERGG-4 was aligned with several IDA-financed operations and advisory services. Sector
reforms and procurement reform were supported by IDA under a LICUS grant (US$1.6 million). The
Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Energy project approved in June 2009 (US$25 million)
provided financing for physical infrastructure. The Private Sector Development Support Project
(US$13 million) and Agricultural Sector Project (US$37 million) complemented the operation. An
EITI implementation project (US$ 0.3 million) approved in January 2011 supported Togo towards
validation status. Additional support was provided by IDA through various non lending instruments.
The Country Economic Memorandum / Diagnostic Trade Integration Study completed in 2010
provided in-depth analysis of economic sectors, including transport, re-exports, and the export
processing zone. The 2009 PEMFAR provided valuable input to developing the Government‟s public
finance management reform program. In the energy sector, ERGG-4 complemented the ongoing
dialogue and advisory assistance provided by the Bank to the authorities in the context of support to
the West Africa Power Pool.

Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality:

32.    ERGG-4 was aligned with the Bank’s five Good Practice Principles on Conditionality.
ERRG-4 was aligned with the government‟s reform agenda; Government‟s own monitoring
arrangements were used, a focused set of prior actions was chosen in conjunction with the
Government and other partners and transparent progress reviews were carried out in conjunction with
other donors (EU).

3.2   Achievement of Program Development Objectives

33.     The main objective of ERGG-4 was to support government-owned reforms to improve
public financial management and to restore performance in key sectors of the economy.
Specifically, ERGG-4 focused on two outcome areas: improving public financial management and
strengthening governance and efficiency in key sectors: cotton, phosphate and electricity. The nine
prior actions of the operation reflected this set of objectives; 5 prior actions pertained to the first
outcome area and four to the second.

Objective 1: Improving Public Financial Management

34. Togo’s 2008 PEFA and 2009 PEMFAR had identified weaknesses in Togo’s public
financial management system. Already under the ERGG-1, 2, and 3, efforts had been made to
strengthen the PFM system, but more needed to be done. To this end five prior actions were agreed
with the Government.


                                                  10
35. The first prior action set out to improve the legal framework and to harmonize it with
practices in other WAEMU countries. This was operationalized through the preparation of six draft
decrees and laws to implement six WAEMU directives. At the time of appraisal the six draft decrees
had been prepared. Following appraisal, all six decrees were adopted by the Council of Ministers and
two of the directives have been submitted to Parliament for approval (the Law on Transparency in
Public Financial Management and the Law on Public Finance). These laws have not been adopted by
May 2012.

36. To improve budget formulation and enhance transparency, ERGG-4 contained a prior
action on the publication of quarterly budget execution reports and the submission to
Parliament of the draft 2011 budget law with medium-term expenditure frameworks (MTEF)
for education, health and agriculture. Budget execution reports for 2010 were published on the
Government‟s website (togoreforme.com) and the practice continues. The 2011 budget was approved
by Parliament on December 22, 2010 along with the three sectoral MTEFs. Yet while this prior
action was formally completed, the realism (and hence the use) of these MTEFs is doubtful. For
instance, the education MTEF suggests that the state would fund pre-school and primary education in
2012 to the tune of FCFA 80 bln., while according to the approved 2012 budget FCFA 47 billion was
allocated to this sub-sector. Similarly, the MTEF suggested that higher education would receive a
budget of FCFA 36 bln. In practice FCFA 16 bln was allocated. Such lack of realism makes the
MTEFs of little use as is illustrated by the fact in 2012 the Ministry of Agriculture requested World
Bank assistance for the development of yet another MTEF.

37. Togo has adopted a cash management system, implying that at times payments can not be
made because resources are not available. By providing timely information (two months in
advance) on the expected expenditure ceiling, it was envisaged that budget execution would improve.
To this end ERGG-4 included a prior action on the adoption of a treasury management planning order
creating a treasury management planning committee tasked with identifying and communicating to
spending departments their respective budget ceilings. The treasury management committee was
indeed formed and meetings have been held regularly. Yet cash spending ceilings were not
communicated to the various departments. The IMF is now contemplating to include in its next ECF
program, conditionality on establishing a formal reporting mechanism for the treasury cash
management committee.

38. The Court of Accounts effectively became operational in 2010 after it was formally
created by decree in April 2009. As a new institution it was deemed important that the institution,
those controlled by it and those receiving its reports, familiarized themselves with its procedures and
the substance of its work. To this end the Court of Accounts reviewed the budget execution for 2007
and sent its findings to Parliament for discussion. This was done in 2011. To further facilitate
capacity building at the Court of Accounts ERGG-4 included a prior action on the submission by
SOTOCO‟s liquidator, CEET, SNPT, and Togo Télécom (all state-owned enterprises) of their
financial statements for 2007 and 2008. Upon their filing the Court of Accounts has used the
statements (specifically those for CEET and Togo Télécom) to form a judgment as part of its „dry-
running‟ exercise in which the Court also audited the Government‟s budget execution for the year
2007. At the date of writing a final judgment has not been published: this is expected to happen in the
course of 2012.



                                                  11
39. The final prior action in the PFM area pertains to enhancing transparency around public
procurement by creating and operationalizing a procurement website, and through the
publication and circulation of a procurement journal. The implementation of this prior action was
left to the General Procurement Department, an entity that only became fully operational in January
2011. None the less a procurement web site was successfully launched (www.marchespublics-
togo.com) and continues to be active. Also the procurement newspaper was successfully launched
starting December 2010 and is being published on a weekly basis. All procurement notices are
published: on the website, in the dedicated procurement newspaper and/or in Togo Presse (which has
the larger circulation). The General Procurement Department has been able to attain a 100%
publication rate because it has made publication of the procurement notice a condition for the
approval of the procurement award: procurement awards without a public notice are rejected.

40. The General Procurement Department has undertaken a number of additional measures
to assure public availability of procurement information. Internet in Togo is limited (and costly)
so publication on the website only reaches a limited audience. This explains the importance of the
procurement newspaper which initially was distributed free of charge. Because of this it was often
unavailable. The authorities have addressed the latter and starting in 2012 the procurement newspaper
is being sold for a nominal fee (FCFA 300). This had helped ensure availability. In addition, the
procurement department has continued to stress the importance of publishing procurement notices.
Realizing that only 37% of the procurement awards were published, the General Procurement
Department which is in the process of putting in place a legal review of the final award, will require
the publication of the award by the procuring entity before the purchase can be finalized. This will
assure a 100% publication of procurement awards.

41. The ICR has revealed that procurement indicators are not readily available. Indicators as
identified above had to be derived manually. This issue is being addressed as well and with the
introduction of SIGMAP, a computer aided procurement process, indicators will become available as
a matter or procedure. A study on how to best implement SIGMAP is expected to be completed in
2012, and implementation will follow in 2013.

Objective 2: Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in Key Sectors – Cotton, Phosphate and
Energy

42. The first prior action related to the cotton sector –the implementation of an analytical
accounting system, was informed by findings of financial audits undertaken in 2007-2008 which
demonstrated pervasive commercial and financial mismanagement across all layers of the now
liquidated cotton company (SOTOCO), notably in procurement, which led to large financial
losses and mounting debts, including arrears to cotton farmers. It was envisaged that an
analytical accounting system would provide NSCT‟s management (NSCT is the successor company
to SOTOCO) insight in the cost per ton produced per production season (a season runs from around
April of one calendar year to March of the next calendar year, as opposed to per fiscal year January 1
– December 31 for which financial statements are available). This cost can then be compared with
similar costs produced for other countries and used to assess the company‟s performance. The
anticipated result was that it would help NSCT to reduce its processing costs (including the overhead)
by 5 percent per ton produced. Moreover the analytical accounts would give farmer representatives in
NSCT‟s Board insight in the cost structure of the company.

                                                 12
43. Despite considerable efforts on the part of NSCT and the authorities, after spending
significant resources and despite the fact that the analytical accounting system was operational
early 2011, the system has, to date, failed to deliver a cost per ton. A key reason for this is related
to the ambitious design of the system requiring amongst others broadband internet connectivity with
each of the ginning factories – something that could not be provided by the telecom provider. As a
consequence the system had to be redesigned, which, in turn proved to be a larger exercise than
expected as the system was optimized for real-time data. In its absence, additional input modules had
to be written. This work was commissioned in 2012 and is expected to be finalized before the end of
the year. It is only at that time that the analytical accounting system will be able to produce cost
estimates.

44. With the analytical accounting system failing to produce a cost per ton, NSCT carried out
a manual exercise, using an external consultant to identify the production cost for the 2010-11
season. This report has shown that the cost of cotton produced in Togo is about FCFA 415/ton. This
compares favorably with the cost in Mali (FCFA 463/ton) and unfavorably with respect to Burkina
Faso (FCFA 336/ton). Based on the detailed cost information available the 2010/11 season, the cost
for the 2009/10 season can be estimated at between FCFA 502 per ton, suggesting that between
2009/10 and 2010/11 the cost per ton reduced by 17 percent. This reduction is driven by the increase
in cotton production, reducing the fixed cost per ton. Cotton production is increasing rapidly and for
2011/12 a production of around 76,000 tons is envisaged. As a consequence the cost per ton is
expected to drop further to around FCFA 300-340/ton. This puts Togo‟s production costs at par with
those in Burkina Faso, the regional leader in cotton production.

45. To further strengthen management of NSCT, the second prior action related to cotton was
to train farmer leaders and to enhance their ability to participate in NSCT’s board. As
indicated previously, cotton producers hold a 40 percent share in NSCT. By providing farmer
representatives with specific training it was expected that their participation in the Board would be
strengthened. A total of 160 farmers were trained on the rights and duties of shareholders under an
EU financed project (Comstabex). It is difficult to establish a direct link between the provision of this
training and producer performance in the Board of NSCT, but during 2011 farmers did effectively
exercise their rights and responsibilities. This was particularly demonstrated during negotiations
between NSCT management and farmer representatives over the final producer price that had to be
paid for cotton produced during the 2010/11 season. Supported by a World Bank expert, farmers
negotiated a substantial (50 percent) increase in the producer price from an initial FCFA 210 per kg
to a final price of FCFA 322 per kg.

46. Like cotton, the phosphate sector was affected by substantial financial mismanagement as
a result of which phosphate production collapsed to a fraction of its original production: in
2011 the real value of phosphate exports was about half of what was achieved a decade earlier. With
the adoption of a strategic investment plan, the authorities are working towards reviving production,
but progress is slower than expected. At the same time, transparency in the sector is being enhanced
as a result of joining EITI. The prior action was related to this, namely the adoption by Government
of a detailed action plan and budget for the activities that are to be implemented under EITI-Togo.
Once this budget was adopted, Togo became a candidate EITI country in October 2010. The
quantitative indicator related to the phosphate sector (meeting all 5 criteria to attain candidate status)
was thus achieved.

                                                   13
47.     After Togo joined EITI in 2010, a first EITI report (covering 2010) was published in
March 2012. This report has received wide coverage in the Togolese press. It identifies serious
issues with reporting by the various (22) extractive entities operating in Togo and finds that $ 3.5
million of all payments to Government declared by the extractive industries, were not reported as
received by the authorities. The unreported revenue exceeds the 5 percent maximum threshold set by
EITI (the actual difference was 5.7 percent).

48.    There have been delays in the creation of the national EITI website. Despite the
availability of (donor) funding for the creation of an EITI website, a website is still not functional.
Lengthy government procedures have been blamed for this.

49.      Togo’s energy sector has been struggling with capacity problems (which were resolved
in 2010 through a (costly) power-purchasing agreement with Contour Global) and a set of
tariffs that are insufficient to cover costs. Particularly when CEB (which imports electricity into
Togo) increased its electricity tariffs by 10 percent, and CEET was not allowed to pass on this tariff
increase to its customers (except industrial customers), the financial situation of CEET became
fragile. The prior action related to energy in ERGG-4 reflected the need to adjust electricity tariffs.
This adjustment was made and effective January 1, 2011 a tariff adjustment was implemented of 10
percent for low voltage electricity, of 20 percent for medium voltage electricity, while the tariff increase
for the low-income bracket (tranche sociale) remained limited to 5 percent. The objective of this prior
action was to restore the financial health of CEET and the results indicator envisaged a 7 percent increase
in turnover. This action was successful and in 2011 CEET registered a profit and increased its turnover by
34 percent (22 percent if Contour Global is excluded).

3.3   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs):

Rating: moderately satisfactory

50. The operation is rated moderately satisfactory. Though the operation‟s objectives and design
were drawing from Togo‟s own reform program and the Bank‟s ISN, implementation of the prior
actions has been such that not all expected outcomes were achieved. The operation was fully
successful with respect to attaining EITI status (but major shortcomings in reporting revenue were
revealed), the reduction in cotton production costs, the training of cotton producer representatives,
energy reform, as well as with respect to the publication of procurement notices. It was partially
successful with respect to the adoption of the six WAEMU directives (which are still awaiting
parliamentary approval before they can effectively be implemented) and the assessment of the
financial statements of the four state owned enterprises by the Court of Accounts. Implementation fell
short with respect to the announcement of ceilings to spending units, the quality of the MTEFs and
the functionality of the analytical accounting system in the cotton sector.

51. The authorities also recognize that in 2011 the reform efforts have stalled and the
Government-led evaluation of the ongoing reform program held on November 10, 2011 concludes
that reforms have not sufficiently been realized.3
3
  The precise wording in French is: “La volonté du gouvernement de mener des réformes pour une meilleure
gestion des affaires publiques s‟est timidement concrétisée au cours du deuxième semestre 2011 dans les
départements ministériels.?, p :52

                                                    14
3.4   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

52. The direct impact on poverty, gender and social development of a Development Policy
Operation that largely focuses on PFM reform is limited, even though improved public
financial management resulting from the policy actions may be expected to positively impact
poverty through a more efficiently and effectively operating civil service. Likewise, improving
governance, transparency and the financial sustainability of the phosphate, electricity and cotton
sectors will have an indirect poverty impact by reducing the drain on the budget these parastatals had
(and even generating dividends in the case of the phosphate company) thus increasing fiscal space for
priority spending. Strengthened governance in the cotton sector, has a direct impact on the
livelihoods of about 300,000 farmers in the poorest regions of Togo by offering them a much better
price for cotton than they would have received otherwise.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

53. The operation contributed to institutional strengthening in public financial management
as well in the phosphate and cotton sectors. By introducing a cash management committee,
supporting the adoption of six WAEMU directives, emphasizing the importance of the Court of
Accounts as an oversight body – also for parastatals, and introducing MTEFs into the budget process,
this operation spearheaded some important institutional development. Moreover, with Togo joining
EITI and with cotton producers better able to (i) obtain cost information from NSCT and (ii) capable
of engaging in the Board of NSCT, this operation contributed to the institutional strengthening of
some key economic sectors.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)

54.   There were no unintended outcomes and impacts.




                                                 15
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

55. The risks facing the project were satisfactorily assessed, as were the factors that would
help mitigate them. The reforms achieved under the operation benefitted from the strong ownership
of the Government and the reforms achieved are expected to be sustained. The main risk to continued
success is vested interest risk following from the fact that post-HIPC completion, a major incentive
for reform disappeared, increasing the space for vested interests to delay key elements of the reform
program. Yet, greater transparency, more accountable practices adopted by the Government in
combination with citizens who expect to benefit from the new-found stability provide an incentive to
sustain the achievements reached under ERGG-4.

56.      Implementation capacity risk is another risk that continues to be relevant in sustaining
the outcomes achieved by ERGG-4. A shortage of sufficient professional staff and weak
institutional capacity are a legacy of Togo‟s recent history. Capacity to ensure high quality budget
planning and execution remains scarce and in need of reinforcement. This is further complicated by a
coordination risk arising from the existence of multiple public officials involved in reforms without a
clear demarcation of roles and responsibilities. This occurs within the Ministry of Economy and
Finance (in charge of PFM reforms), between the Ministry of Finance and line ministries (e.g.
telecom reform) and between ministries and public entities (cotton sector reform). The planned
restructuring of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is expected to help address coordination and
communication issues within the Ministry, especially between the General Secretary and the
Permanent Secretary in charge of reform.

5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1   Bank Performance

(a)   Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

57. Quality at entry was ensured through a high level of consistency between the operation
and the ISN. The prior actions were set in consultation with sector specialists who were instrumental
in identifying problems and proposing solutions to key areas supported. Project identification and
appraisal were facilitated by the existence of solid analytical background work (PEMFAR, audits and
studies in the phosphate, cotton and electricity sectors), the alignment with priorities highlighted in
the Government‟s own Poverty Reduction Strategy and the continuity with previous Development
Policy Operations. The Bank team worked closely with the Government and coordinated preparation
and appraisal of the operation with other donors (most notably the IMF and the EU). While the IMF
played a major role in assisting with the macroeconomic medium term framework, the Bank led the
dialogue in the area of public financial management and governance in the phosphate, cotton and
energy sectors. Where capacity in the implementing agencies was limited (e.g. cotton) the Bank‟s
team went to great length to help assure implementation of the prior action.


                                                  16
58. More attention could have been paid to the substantiveness and definitions of the prior
actions. The significant element in the prior action on the submission of the draft budget to
Parliament was that the budget would be accompanied by MTEFs for three sectors. (After all,
submission of a draft budget to Parliament is done as a matter of general procedure.) But the
accompanying MTEFs were unrealistic, raising questions about the substance of this prior action.
Likewise, the analytical accounting system of NSCT was operational but not to the point where it was
able to produce a cost of production: this point will only be reached in 2012. A more careful
definition of what was achieved – it was a major achievement to have a running system early 2011,
would have avoided confusion for those expecting that production costs would now be readily
available.

59. The results framework could have been given more attention. Elements of the results
framework could have been defined differently or more precisely. For instance, the indicator on EITI
(meeting all 5 requirements) was effectively met with the completion of the prior action. As such it
does not measure implementation of the EITI process; an closer to implementation, such as the
publication of the first EITI report, would have been preferable. Likewise, the indicator regarding the
procurement process was defined to cover both the publication of procurement notices and
procurement awards. But whereas the publication of procurement notices is under the control of the
General Procurement Department, the publication of the awards was not (at least not until a legal
review has been introduced).

(b)   Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

60. Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory. Supervision of progress took place in
parallel to the preparation of the follow-up operation, ERGC-5, during missions in September-
October and November-December 2011. Supervision took also place by Bank specialists present in
the country office staff (procurement, transparency) and those visiting Togo as part of their own
missions (cotton, energy, phosphate). Close follow up allowed the Bank to raise aspects of the
program with the authorities that were problematic, or that could be elaborated. Hence the
unavailability of the procurement newspaper was raised, an issue that subsequently has been
addressed. Another issue that was raised was with respect to the determination of the final price for
cotton which was complicated by the unavailability of production costs. In this instance, the Bank
engaged a consultant to identify the actual costs and facilitated a dialogue between producers and
NSCT to arrive at a final price. To further enhance budget transparency in follow up to the prior
action around the budget, the Bank team agreed with the authorities to develop a BOOST – an excel
data base that allows easy access and analysis of budget data.

61. Supervision was complicated by the departure of the Bank’s TTLs. This created a vacuum
for a period of 4 months during which no supervision took place. When a new TTL with limited
exposure to DPOs and PFM was identified, there was limited budget to bring a PFM specialist to
Togo and a PFM specialist only joined a mission in November-December, a month before the project
closed. As a consequence follow up on certain PFM aspects slipped; this was particularly evident
with respect to the publication of spending ceilings, an issue that was not raised with the authorities
during any of the supervision missions.

                                                  17
(c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

62. As Bank performance for both quality at entry and supervision is rated moderately
satisfactory, overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory in accordance with the ICR
harmonized evaluation criteria guidelines.

5.2   Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance: (see Overall Borrower Performance)
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: (see Overall Borrower Performance)
Rating: not applicable as the Government and the implementing agency are the same

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.

63. Despite the difficulties associated with low capacity and reform fatigue, Government
enacted all prior actions in a timely manner. The implementation record following the prior
actions is mixed. Progress was made towards improving public finance management and improving
transparency and efficiency in key sectors. The relationship and coordination with the Bank and other
donors were good and the authorities addressed implementation issues, such as with the availability
of the procurement journal, on a timely basis. In some areas progress was slow such as the adoption
of the UEMOA directives or the completion of the opinion of the Court of Accounts on the financial
statements of the selected state enterprises. In yet other areas results were of track and limited
remedial action was taken to correct this. This was the case with respect to the implementation of
analytical accounting system in the cotton sector and the provision of timely information to spending
units on ceilings for expenditure commitments. In other instances, remedial action was taken
effectively: the General Procurement Department took swift action once it realized that the free
procurement newspaper was not widely accessible, or targets were exceeded by far, such as in the
area of electricity tariff reform (the target was exceeded four-fold) and the cotton production cost
reduction (target exceeded three-fold). Taking everything into account, the overall performance is
considered moderately satisfactory.

6.    Lessons Learned

64.    One lesson is that ensuring progress in a stand-alone Development Policy Operation, in
an environment with low capacity by the recipient, requires the ability to supervise closely. In
Togo, the authorities do own the reform program, but even then certain reforms slipped. ERGG-4
made particularly good progress in areas where specialists were (regularly) present in the country
(procurement, electricity, cotton) or which did not require specific expertise to make noticeable
progress (budget transparency).




                                                 18
65.    A tighter fit with available expertise in the country office and with ongoing operations
can thus be expected to enhance quality. As budgets for supervision are limited, supervision will
largely depend on specialists in the country office, or by visiting missions. ERGG-4 successor
operation, ERGC-5, reflects this lesson. It has reduced its focus on PFM issues (following agreements
with the EU and IMF to scale up their involvement), simplified PFM related prior actions and started
to put more emphasis on areas in which expertise is available in the country office (procurement,
cotton budget transparency). The successor operation also aligns more closely with existing
operations and is putting more emphasis on real sector reforms (banking, electricity,
telecommunications and cotton).

66.     A second lesson is that, in the face of low recipient capacity, the Bank’s team needs to
remind the authorities about the importance of the results framework and the implications of
not meeting indicators. ICR discussions with the Togolese authorities clarified the importance IDA
attaches to implementation. It helped create awareness that budget support requires more than the
completion of prior actions and the disbursement of resources. It has made is clear that the focus in
DPOs should not only go towards the formulation of prior actions, results indictors are equally
important. It also helped to create an understanding that adverse ICR ratings would affect the
country‟s IDA allocation. This comprehension has helped reinforce the authorities‟ commitment to
follow up and has already led to greater attention to implementation (and the associated results
indicators) for the successor operation (ERGC-5).

67.     A third lesson regards the care that needs to be extended at the definition of prior
actions and results indicators. The indicator on EITI (all 5 requirements to become an EITI
candidate country are met) was met as soon as the prior action was completed (adoption of an action
plan which was the last action that had to be completed to become an EITI country). It thus does not
reflect implementation of the prior action. Meeting the indicator on public procurement (100% of
procurement notices and attributions are published) on the other hand, required actions on the part of
DNCMP (creation of a legal review to ensure 100% of the publication of the attributions) that were
beyond the scope of the prior action (publication of the procurement journal) and that had not been
discussed earlier. Finally, the use of the word operationalization in the cotton prior action, and the
associated indicator suggested that production costs would be readily available, something that was
not the case because while the analytical accounting software was operational (i.e. up and running) it
was not able (to date) to produce a cost per tonne. Particularly in an environment where the capacity
of the counterpart is constrained and where language barriers exist (the Togolese authorities are not
well versed in English), feedback on the proposed wording of prior actions and indicators can be
expected to be limited, putting additional responsibilities on Bank staff to exercise due care.

68.     A final lesson is that meaningful reforms (such as in cotton) may take years to complete
and are hard to support by annual stand-alone DPOs. Delivering a stand-alone DPO annually has
advantages from the perspective of budget predictability. But many meaningful reforms may take
more than one year to complete and are, consequently, outside the scope of a stand-alone DPO (even
though the program document for ERGG-4 did suggest prior actions for next operation, these do not
carry the same weight as triggers in a programmatic operation). From this perspective it would have
been advantageous if ERGG-4 had already been part of a programmatic series, even though the PRSP
under which ERGG-4 was prepared was about. After all, the main areas for reform PFM, cotton,



                                                 19
energy, phosphates, banking, telecommunications are widely known and recognized and for all
intents and purposes they can be expected to feature prominently in any successor PRSP and CAS.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)   Borrower/Implementing Agencies:

N/A

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

N/A




                                                 20
        Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)   Task Team members

       Name                                    Title                              Unit

       Lending (from Task Team in Program Document)

       Madani Tall                             Country Director                   AFCF2

       Miria A. Pigato                         Sector Manager                     AFTP4

       Hervé Assah                             Country Manager                    AFMTG

       Manuela Francisco                       Sr. Country Economist              AFTP4

       Yemdaogo Tougma                         Economist                          AFTP4

       J Fily Sissoko                          Lead       Financial     Management AFTFM
                                               Specialist

       Philip English                          Lead Economist                     AFTP4

       Itchi Gnon Ayindo                       Procurement Specialist             AFTPC

       Ayi Kouvi                               Agriculture Economist              AFTAR

       Franklin Gbedey                         Energy Specialist                  AFTEG

       Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius                 Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG

       Quentin Wodon                           Adviser                            HDNED

       Anthony Molle                           Senior Counsel                     LEGAF

       Salwa Saleh                             Junior Counsel                     LEGAF

       Aissatou Diallo                         Senior Finance Officer             CTRLA

       Mamadou Barry                           Sr. Mining Specialist              SEGOM

       Brigitte Bocoum                         Sr. Mining Specialist              SEGOM

       Christian Berger                        Senior Agriculture Specialist      AFTAR

       Nicolas Gergeley                        Consultant

       Judite Fernandes                        Program Assistant                  AFTP4

       Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)

       Madani M. Tall                          Country Director                   AFCF2



                                                   21
Miria Pigato                 Sr. Manager                       AFTP4

Herve Assah                  Country Manager                   AFMTG

Manuela Francisco            Sr. Economist (TTL)               AFTP4

Yemdaogo Tougma              Economist                         AFTP4

Johannes G. Hoogeveen        Sr. Economist                     AFTP4

Philip English               Lead Economist                    AFTP4

Saidou Diop                  Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM

Itchi Gnon Ayindo            Procurement Specialist            AFTPC

Ayi Kouvi                    Agriculture Economist             AFTAR

Franklin Gbedey              Energy Specialist                 AFTEG

Christian Berger             (Senior Agriculture Specialist)   AFTAR

Brigitte Bocoum              Sr. Mining Specialist             SEGOM




                        Staff Time and Cost (From SAP)
  Stage                 No. of Staff Weeks           US$ Thousands
                                                     (including travel and consultant
                                                     costs)
  Lending
  FY11                  50                              120
  Supervision/ICR
  FY12                  25                               40
  TOTAL                 75                              160




                                22
      Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

N/A




                          23
                Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Government reforms‟ review meeting held on []




                                                24
         Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Government of Togo agrees with the findings of the ICR and thanks the World Bank for
supporting Togo‟s governance reforms aimed at reducing poverty and promoting growth.




                                          25
      Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     26
                            Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1. Program Document, March 1, 2011

2. Letter of Development Policy, February 8, 2011

3. Appraisal Aide-memoire, February 14, 2011

4. Recommendations of Statutory Committee, March 4, 2011

5. Financial Agreement, April, 2011

6. Aide-memoire, Technical Mission, March 2012

7. Minutes of Negotiations, February 15, 2011

8. Minutes of ROC meeting, February 2, 2011

9. Interim Strategy Note and Economic Recovery & Governance, May 29, 2008

10. Project Information Document January 18, 2011

11. Minutes of Concept Note Review Meeting, December 15, 2010

12. Closing letter, February 2, 2012

13. World Bank, Implementation Status and Results Report for an ERGG, December 16, 2009

14. World Bank, Implementation Status and Results Report for ERGG 2, June 30, 2010

15. World Bank, Implementation Status and Results Report for an ERGG 3, June 20, 2011

16. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on Assistance to the Republic of Togo under the Enhanced
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative, November 19,
2010.

17. Republic of Togo: Full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2009-2011, May 2009

18. Aide-mémoire pour la Cinquième Don pour la Relance Economique et la Gouvernance mission
de Pré-Evaluation: 4-14 Octobre 2011.

19. Aide-mémoire pour le Premier Crédit pour la Relance Economique et la Gouvernance mission de
Pré-Evaluation: 28 novembre-14 Décembre 2011.

20. Republic of Togo. MTEF for Education.


                                                27
21. Republic of Togo. Budget data base with approved budget for 2012 (BOOST).

22. IMF. Togo-Policy Note for Three-Year ECF Arrangement, May 2012.

23. Gergely, Nicolas. Rapport final sur le fonctionnement et la révision du mécanisme du prix au
producteur du coton graine au Togo, December 20, 2011

24. Republic of Togo. Rapport de mise en oeuve des reformes au 2eme semestre 2011. December
2011.

25. World Bank. Discours de Monsieur Hervé Assah, Représentant Résident de la Banque mondiale,
Lomé, le 10 Novembre 2011.

26. CEET. Données caractéristiques de la CEET y compris Contour Global. Mars 2012.

27. Direction Nationale du Contrôle de Marches Publics. Note de présentation des statistiques sur les
taux de publication des avis d‟appel d‟offres et d‟attributions des marches des dossiers examinés par
la Direction Nationale du Contrôle de Marches Publics, le 08 Juin 2012.

28. NSCT. Cout de Production de la Fibre NSCT, le 21 Juin 2012.




                                                 28
                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 33497
                          o
                         To
                     Ouagadougou                                                             1°E
                                       BURKINA FASO Diapaga
                                                                                                                                                                       TO GO
                                                        o
                                                       To



                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
11°N                                                                                                                               11°N
            To
             o                                                                                                                                                        PREFECTURE CAPITALS
          Navrongo                                                               Mandouri
                          Dapaong
                                               TÔNE                                                                                                                   REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                       Too
                                                                                    Natitingou                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                Oti
                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                         AV
                                       S AVA N N A                                                                                                                    MAIN ROADS
                                                              OTI
                                                          Mango                                                                                                       RAILROADS

                                                        Ko
                                                                                                                                                                      PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                             u m ongou
                                                                                                                                                                      REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                                            KEREN                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
10°N
                                                                                    Kanté
                                                                                    Kanté              DOUFELGOU
                                                                                                                     Kpagouda
                               o
                              To                                             Niamtougou                                            BINAH           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                             Yendi
                              endi
                                                       Gué
                                                       Guérin
                                                       Guérin
                                                                   KARA                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                                                                                       Kokoro
                                                                                                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any


                                                                                 Ka
                                                       Kouka                       ra
                                                                                                            Kara            KOZAH                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                To
                                 o                            BASSAR
                               amale
                              Tamale
                                                                                                                             ASSOLI
                                                                                                    Bafilo                          o
                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                   Parakou
       GHANA                                                     Bassar

                                                                                        TCHAOUDJO
                                                                                                                          Tchamba
                                                                                                                          Tchamba        To
                                                                                                                                          o
9°N                                                                                                                                      Parakou                                                                     9°N
                                                                                   Sokondé
                                                                                   Sokondé
                                                                             .
                                                                   Fazao Mts




                                                                                                              o




                                                                                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                   BENIN
                                                                                                            Mo




                                                                                              CENTRAL
                                                                                               Sotouboua
                                                                                                                       YA
                                                                                                                     N YA L A
                                                                      SOTOUBOUA
                                                                                   Blitta
                                                  To
                                                   o




                                                                                                                                                                                                     NIGERIA
                                                Bimbila
                                                                                    A ni e




                                                                                                                     OGOU
8°N                                                                                                                   Elavagnon                                                                                      8°N
                                                                                                                                                         o
                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                       Savé
                                                                                                                                                       Sav


                                                                                                             Anjé
                                                                                                             Anjé
                                                                 WAWA AMOU
                                                                 WAWA
                                                                 Badou                                  Atakpamé
                                                                                                        Atakpamé
                                                                                        Amlamé
                                                                                        Amlamé
                     Lake                                                                                   Amou

                                                                                 PLATEAU
                     Volta                          To
                                                     o
                                                   Yendi
                                                    endi
                                                                         Apéyémé
                                                                         Apé
                                                                         Apéyémé
                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                o
                                                                                                                                                              Kétou
                                                                                                                                                                tou
                                                                  KLOTO                                     HAHO
7°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7°N
                                                                      Mont Agou               Notsé
                                                                                              Notsé
                                                  Kpalime             (986 m)
                                                               Agou
                                                                                        Si
                                                                                         o




                                                To
                                                 o                                                                   YOTO
                                               Accra
                                                                                              ZIO                       Tabligbo
                                                                                                                        Tabligbo

                                                                                    MARITIME
                                                                                                                                  L C
                                                                                                                                  L C
                                                                                                                                  LAC




              TOGO                                                               Kéve
                                                                                 Kéve                                    VO                                                                                To Lagos
                                                                                                                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                      vié
                                                                                                   Tsévié
                                                                                                   Tsévié                Vogan
                                                                                                                         Vogan
                                                                                                                                     S




                                                                                                                                   Aného
                                                                                                                                                          0            20        40        60 Kilometers
                                                                                                               LOMÉ
6°N                                                                                                             GOLFE
                                                                                                                                                          0           10    20        30    40     50 Miles
                                        To
                                         o
                                       Accra                                                                   Bight of Benin
                             0°                                                              1°E                                                    2°E                                                        3°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOVEMBER 2004
