                                             CONFORMED COPY

                                       GRANT NUMBER H656-TG




  Financing Agreement
 (Fourth Economic Recovery and Governance Grant)


                    between


             REPUBLIC OF TOGO


                      and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




              Dated April 18 , 2011
                                                                   GRANT NUMBER H656-TG

                                 FINANCING AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT dated April 18, 2011, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF TOGO
(“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?) for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a)
the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic policy framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as
follows:


ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
        or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to eighteen million
        Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,000,000) (“Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
        Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is Euro.

                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end:
                                               -2-



        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
                party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and
                the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
                have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
                action taken under the Program.



ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   An Additional Event of Suspension shall occur if a situation has arisen which shall make
        it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out.

                   ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   An Additional Condition of Effectiveness shall be that the Association is satisfied with
        the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program and with the adequacy
        of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for
        finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:
                Ministry of Economy and Finance
                Immeuble CASEF
                B.P. 387
                Lomé
                Togo
                Facsimile:
                228-221-0905

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                                        -3-



       United States of America

       Cable address:          Telex:                Facsimile:
       INDEVAS                 248423(MCI) or        1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.           64145(MCI)


AGREED at Washington DC, USA, as of the day and year first above written.




                        REPUBLIC OF TOGO




                        By //s// Dédé Ahoéfa Ekoue
                        Authorized Representative




                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                        By //s// Hervé Assah
                        Authorized Representative
                                               -4-



                                         SCHEDULE 1

                    Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken under the Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

Public Financial Management

1.      Preparation by the Recipient of draft decrees and laws to implement the six UEMOA
        Directives pertaining to public finances;

2.      (i) Publication of the Recipient’s 2010 quarterly budget execution report; and
        (ii) submission to the Recipient’s Parliament of the draft 2011 budget law with a
        medium-term expenditure framework for each of the education, health and agriculture
        sectors;

3.      Adoption by the Recipient of the Treasury Management Planning Order;

4.      Submission by the SOTOCO’s liquidator, CEET, SNPT and Togotélécom of their
        respective 2007 and 2008 financial statements to the Recipient’s Court of Accounts;

5.      Development and operation of the Procurement Website, and publication and circulation
        of the Procurement Newspaper;

Cotton Sector

6.      Implementation of an analytical accounting system for NSCT which is consistent with the
        recommendations of the Assessment Report;

7.      Provision of training to farmer leaders toward a better participation within the NSCT
        board;

Phosphate Sector

8.      Adoption of a detailed action plan and budget for the activities that are to be implemented
        by the Recipient under EITI; and

Energy Sector

9.      Adoption by the Recipient of the Utility Tariff Adjustment Order.
                                                 -5-




Section II.       Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
        specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
        allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:

              Allocations                    Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                   (expressed in SDR)

(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                              18,000,000

     TOTAL                                                 18,000,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        1.        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
                  Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
                  and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                  framework.

D.      Deposit of Financing Amounts

        1.        The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request
                  for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a dedicated
                  deposit account (“Dedicated Account?) on terms and conditions satisfactory to
                  the Bank.

        2.        The Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
                  into the Dedicated Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                  Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                  Association.

E.      Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

        1.        have the Dedicated Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
                  acceptable to the Association;

        2.        furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
                  months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy
                  of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall reasonably request; and
                                               -6-



        3.      furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Dedicated
                Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such
request shall be cancelled.

G.      Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2011.
                                               -7-



                                          APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “Assessment Report? means the Recipient’s report No. 0028/MCDAT/DGDAT dated
        March 2, 2010 recommending new analytical accounting system software for NSCT
        related to management information and cost accounting.

2.      “CEET? means the Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo, the public utility established
        in accordance with the Recipient’s Decree No. 2006-013/PR dated February 22, 2006 and
        operating under the laws of the Recipient, and in charge of the distribution of electricity
        in the Recipient’s territory.

3.      “Dedicated Account? means the dedicated deposit account referred to in Section II.D.1 of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

4.      “EITI? means the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a coalition of
        governments, companies, civil society groups, investors and international organizations
        which aims to strengthen governance by improving transparency and accountability in
        the extractives sector.

5.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
                Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
                financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
                United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
                or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
                designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:
                                      -8-




Group          Sub-group                Description of Item

  112                           Alcoholic beverages

  121                           Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
                                refuse

  122                           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or
                                not containing tobacco substitutes)

  525                           Radioactive and associated materials

  667                           Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                stones, unworked or worked

  718           718.7           Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
                                fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                irradiated, for nuclear reactors

  728           728.43          Tobacco processing machinery

  897           897.3           Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                group metals (except watches and
                                watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                silversmiths’ wares (including set
                                gems)

  971                           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                ores and concentrates)

  (c)   for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
        consumption;

  (d)   for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
        prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
        the Recipient is a party;

  (e)   on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
        Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
        and

  (f)   with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
        collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
        Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
        other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
        the Association to address such practices when they occur.
                                            -9-




6.    “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association General
      Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth
      in Section II of this Appendix.

7.    “NSCT? means the Nouvelle Société Cotonnière du Togo, a cotton ginning and marketing
      company established in the Recipient’s territory pursuant to Decree No. 2009-011/PR of
      January 23, 2009.

8.    “Procurement Newspaper? means the newspaper entitled Marchés Publics, Bulletin
      d’Informations de la Direction Nationale du Contrôle des Marchés Publics du Togo.

9.    “Procurement Website? means the internet website found at www.marchespublics-
      togo.com.

10.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
      growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
      letter dated February 8, 2011 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
      Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
      the Association in support of the Program during its execution.

11.   “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
      category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section
      II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

12.   “SNPT? means the Société Nouvelle des Phosphates du Togo, the state-owned and
      operated entity established in accordance with the Recipient’s Decree No. 049/PR dated
      May 14, 2007 and operating under the laws of the Recipient.

13.   “SOTOCO? means the Société Togolaise de Coton, the state-owned company
      responsible for the production and support activities of the cotton sector dissolved
      pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 2009-011/PR entitled Décret portant dissolution
      de la SOTOCO dated January 29, 2009.

14.   “Treasury Management Planning Order? means the ministerial order entitled arrêté
      n° 342/MEF/SG/DGCTP portant création d’un comité de trésorerie, dated December 31,
      2010 establishing a new framework for the Recipient’s treasury management planning.

15.   “Togotélécom? means the state-owned and operated entity established in accordance with
      the Recipient’s Decree No. 96-22/PR entitled Décret portant scission de l’Office des
      Postes et Télécommunications du Togo (OPTT) en deux sociétés d’Etat : Société des
      Postes du Togo (SPT) et la Société des Telecommunications du Togo (Togotélécom),
      dated February 28, 1996 and operating under the laws of the Recipient.

16.   “UEMOA Directives? means the six Directives pertaining to the harmonized framework
      for public financial management of the West African Economic and Monetary Union
      (hereinabove referred to as UEMOA) implemented pursuant to the Decision N°
      33/2009/CM/UEMOA entitled Décision portant adoption du programme d’appui aux
      réformes du cadre harmonisé des finances publiques au sein de l’UEMOA, dated
      December 17, 2009:
                                               -10-




        (a)     Directive N° 01/2009/CM/UEMOA entitled Directive portant Code de
                Transparence dans le Gestion des Finances Publiques au sein de l’UEMOA,
                dated March 27, 2009;

        (b)     Directive N° 06/2009/CM/UEMOA entitled Directive portant Lois de Finances
                de l’UEMOA, dated June 26, 2009;

        (c)     Directive N° 07/2009/CM/UEMOA entitled Directive portant Règlement
                Général sur la Comptabilité Publique au sein de l’UEMOA, dated June 26, 2009;

        (d)     Directive N° 08/2009/CM/UEMOA entitled Directive portant Nomenclature
                Budgétaire de l’Etat au sein de l’UEMOA, dated June 26, 2009;

        (e)     Directive N° 09/2009/CM/UEMOA entitled Directive portant Plan Comptable
                de l’Etat au sein de l’UEMOA, dated June 26, 2009 ; and

        (f)     Directive N° 10/2009 entitled Directive portant Tableau des Opérations
                Financières de l’Etat au sein de l’UEMOA, dated June 26, 2009.

17.     “Utility Tariff Adjustment Order? means the order (arrêté) entitled Arrêté
        Interministériel No.019/MME/MEF/MPR-PDAT/MCPSP portant fixation des tarifs de
        vente de l’énergie électrique au Togo dated November 26, 2010 pursuant to which
        the electricity utility tariffs have been adjusted.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
        relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
        modified to read as follows:

        “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

        …       (c)     The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
        receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing until two
                                            -11-



     years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the Association’s representatives
     to examine such records.?

6.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
     follows:

     “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

     …       (c)      The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to the
     Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in
     such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program,
     the performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations
     under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support
             of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
             Financing Agreement.?

     (b)     The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
             are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)     The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is modified
             to read as follows:

             “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
             of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project? throughout these
             General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?.
