Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF094263 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Sustainable Land Management Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
Dated November 24, 2009
Page  2
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF094263 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 24, 2009, entered into between: 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (“Recipient”); and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“World Bank”), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
(“GEF”). 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions”) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
Article II 
The Project 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
Article III 
The Grant 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to four 
million eight hundred thousand United States Dollars ($4,800,000) (“Grant”) to 
assist in financing the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
The Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard 
Conditions, the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the 
availability of such funds. 
Article IV 
Additional Remedies 
4.01 
The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (k) of the Standard 
Conditions consists of the following: a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
Article V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied: 
(a) 
the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental 
action; 
(b) 
the Recipient has revised the Financial and Accounting Procedures 
Manual and the Project Implementation Manual for the purposes of the 
Project, in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank; 
(c) 
the Recipient has revised the PSAOP II 
Arrêté
 to expand the role of the 
TFCU
 
and the Steering Committee for the purposes of the Project; 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(d) 
the TOMPRO software has been updated for the purposes of the Project; 
(e)  
the Recipient shall have entered into the Subsidiary Agreement with 
ASPRODEB and into agreements, in form and substance acceptable to 
the World Bank, with ISRA, ANCAR, and INP for the implementation 
of the Project. 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions, 
satisfactory to the World Bank, of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the 
World Bank so requests, a certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a 
competent official of the Member Country, showing, on behalf of the Recipient, 
that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on its behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms. 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Agreement (“Effective Date”).  If, before the 
Effective Date, any event has occurred which would have entitled the World 
Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if this Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the 
dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has 
(or have) ceased to exist. 
5.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.  This Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect 
by the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after 
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose 
of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
Page  5
-4- 
 
Article VI 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister at the time in charge of economy and finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Rue René N’diaye 
B.P. 4017 
Dakar, Senegal 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINIFINANCES 
3203 
G 
  221-33-821-1630 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD    
48423 (MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Abdoulaye 
Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the  
 
Global Environment Facility) 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Habib 
M. 
Fetini 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the reduction of land degradation and the 
improvement of ecosystem functions and services in the Target Areas by adopting 
sustainable land management practices through the provision of support to the 
Recipient’s research and agricultural and rural consultation system and to producer 
organizations. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
PART 1. 
Supporting the Agricultural Research System 
Strengthening the capacity of ISRA to generate and disseminate SLM-targeted research 
and knowledge through the: 
A. 
implementation by ISRA of research and development projects relating to land 
degradation and low soil productivity; 
B. 
collection of information on the bio-physical and socio-economic characteristics 
of the Target Areas and the preparation of baseline studies to be used for the 
SLM Knowledge Base and the monitoring and evaluation of the Project; and 
C. 
participation of ISRA scientific staff in regional and international networks and 
workshops relating to SLM-targeted research and knowledge; 
all through the provision of technical assistance, Training, services, Operating Costs, and 
equipment and carrying out of studies. 
PART 2. 
Strengthening the Agricultural and Rural Advisory Services 
Strengthening of the agricultural advisory system of ANCAR and the consolidation of a 
pluralistic network of service providers through the :(i) carrying out of a Training 
program for selected staff of ANCAR, producers’ intermediaries on SLM technologies 
and practices and their integration to existing farmer production systems; (ii) creation of a 
database on SLM technologies and practices; (iii) implementation of SLM awareness-
raising campaigns among producers; (iv) dissemination of SLM technologies, sharing of 
lessons and best practices among producers, their organizations and local communities; 
and (v) provision of technical support to producers on SLM; 
Page  8
-7- 
 
all through the provision of technical assistance, Training, services, Operating Costs and 
equipment and carrying out of studies. 
PART 3. 
Supporting Producer Organizations 
Strengthening the capacity of producer organizations to integrate SLM practices in the 
production system and participate in policy formulation through: 
A. 
Training and other capacity building activities for the benefit of, 
inter alia
,
selected staff of ASPRODEB on the provision of SLM support to producer 
organizations and the carrying out of advocacy and communication activities 
about SLM. 
B. 
Training for the benefit of representatives of producer organizations and local 
elected representatives on how to integrate SLM in the formulation of local 
development plans and sectoral policies. 
C. 
Carrying out of SLM Subprojects through: (i) the provision of Sub-grants to 
Producer Organizations; and (ii) the provision of technical assistance, and 
Operating Costs for the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities of 
the SLM Subprojects. 
PART 4. 
Supporting Sectoral Coordination 
A. 
Overall inter-sectorial Project coordination by INP and preparation of a SLM 
Strategic Investment Framework; and 
B. 
Coordination, management and monitoring and evaluation by TFCU; 
all through provision of technical advisory services, goods, Training, and Operating 
Costs. 
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain, throughout Project implementation, 
with composition and terms of reference acceptable to the World Bank: 
(a) 
the Steering Committee, to be responsible for approving annual work 
programs and budgets and to assess Project performance; and 
(b) 
the TFCU, within the ministry in charge of agriculture, with the 
responsibility to: (i) support implementation of Project activities; 
(ii) monitor the day-to-day implementation of the Project; (iii) facilitate 
exchange of information and cooperation among the implementing 
entities; (iv) prepare quarterly progress reports; (v) consolidate, supervise 
and monitor procurement plans for the Project; (vi) manage 
disbursements in collaboration with the ministry in charge of economy 
and finance; and (vii) act as liaison with the World Bank. 
2. 
The ISRA will be responsible for the implementation of Part 1 of the Project; 
ANCAR will be responsible for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project; 
ASPRODEB will be responsible for the implementation of Part 3 of the Project; 
the INP will be responsible for the implementation of Part 4.A of the Project. 
3. 
The Recipient shall implement or cause the Project to be implemented in 
accordance with the Implementation Agreements and except as the Recipient and 
the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive 
any provision of such Implementation Agreements. 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the ASPRODEB’s part of the Project, the 
Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to the 
ASPRODEB under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the 
ASPRODEB, under terms and conditions approved by the Association. 
(“Subsidiary Agreement”).  
Page  10
-9- 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
C. 
Environmental and Social safeguards 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project, and each SLM Subproject, is 
implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and shall not, 
except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, amend or waive, or permit to be 
amended or waived, any provision of the aforementioned. 
2. 
In cases of any SLM Subproject requiring the adoption of an EMP or RAP 
pursuant to the Environmental and Social Management Framework or the 
Resettlement Policy Framework, the Recipient shall: (i) proceed to have such 
EMP or RAP as the case may be developed, submitted to the World Bank for 
review and approval, and, thereafter, adopted, prior to the implementation of the 
SLM Subproject; and (ii) thereafter take such measures as necessary or 
appropriate to ensure full compliance with the requirements or such EMP or 
RAP, as the case may be; and 
3. 
Without limitation upon its reporting obligations under this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall regularly collect, compile and submit to the Association on a 
quarterly basis reports on the status of compliance with the ESMF, RPF, ESIAs, 
EMPs and RAPs, if any, and give details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of 
such ESMF, RPF, ESIAs, EMPs and RAPs, if any; (b) conditions, if any, which 
interfere or threaten to interfere with the implementation of such ESMF, RPF, 
ESIAs, EMPs and RAPs, if any; and (c) remedial measures taken or required to 
be taken to address such conditions. 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
 
E. Project 
Implementation 
Manual 
1. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and the 
Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual, referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of 
Page  11
-10- 
 
this Agreement; and (ii) except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree in 
writing, not amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or 
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. To the extent that there is 
any contradiction between the terms of such manuals and this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
2. 
For purposes of Part 3.C of the Project, the Recipient shall apply the proceeds of 
the Grant allocated to the provision of Sub-grants, in accordance with the 
guidelines, procedures and criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual, and the additional terms and conditions set forth 
in Sub-Sections I.B, C and E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
F. 
Sub-grants for SLM Subprojects  
1. 
Without limitation upon the criteria specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no SLM Subproject 
shall be eligible to be financed by a Sub-grant unless the relevant Local Selection 
Committee shall have determined, on the basis of guidelines and criteria 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual that such SLM Subproject 
satisfies the eligibility criteria, which shall include, the following: 
(i) 
the SLM Subproject shall be implemented by a Producer 
Organization; 
(ii) 
the SLM Subproject does not fall within any of the negative list 
of ineligible activities set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual, including without limitation activities that would 
adversely affect forest areas and/or natural habitats; and 
(iii)  
the Sub-grants will support activities promoting SLM in the 
Target Areas;  
2. 
To provide Sub-grants, the Recipient shall cause ASPRODEB to enter into a 
Sub-grant Agreement with the Sub-grant Beneficiary in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank, which Agreement shall include the following: 
(a) 
A description of the approved SLM Subproject/s, including its/their 
budget and performance indicators; 
(b) 
A provision requiring the financing to be made on a grant basis; 
Page  12
-11- 
 
(c) The 
Sub-
grant Beneficiary’s obligation to: (i) carry out the SLM Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with sound 
administrative, technical and financial standards, the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of grant proceeds other than 
the Recipient, and the provisions of the PIM; (ii) maintain adequate records 
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices defined in the PIM, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the SLM Subproject; 
(iii) maintain adequate reporting in accordance with the standards specified 
in the PIM; and (iv) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the World Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and at 
the World Bank’s or the Recipient’s request, have such financial statements 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the 
World Bank; 
(d) 
The Sub-grant Beneficiary’s obligation to: (i) carry out the SLM Subproject 
in accordance with the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other 
specifications set forth in the Safeguard Documents; and (ii) not amend or 
waive, except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, any provision of the 
aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
World Bank, adversely and materially affect Project implementation; 
(e) 
The requirement that: (A) goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (B) in the case of a 
SLM Subproject, (i) such goods, works and consultants’ services shall be 
used exclusively for implementing the activities described in such SLM 
Subproject proposal and achieving the objectives of such activities; and 
(ii) upon completion of the SLM Subproject, such SLM Subproject shall be 
operated and maintained in accordance with the operation and maintenance 
plan agreed upon with the Recipient. 
(f) 
The right of the Recipient and ASPRODEB to inspect, by itself, or jointly 
with the Sub-grant Beneficiary, the Recipient, and the World Bank, if the 
World Bank shall so request, the goods, sites and services financed by the 
Sub-grant, the operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
(g) 
The right of the Recipient and ASPRODEB to obtain all information as the 
Recipient or the World Bank shall reasonably request regarding the 
Page  13
-12- 
 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the SLM Subproject/s 
financed by the Sub-grant; and  
(h) 
The right of the Recipient and ASPRODEB to suspend or terminate the Sub-
grant Beneficiary’s right to use the proceeds of the Sub-grant upon failure by 
the Sub-grant Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-
grant Agreement or obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the 
Sub-financing then withdrawn, upon the Sub-grant Beneficiary’s failure to 
perform any of its obligations under the Sub-financing Agreement.  
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the 
period covered by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
(i) 
increased percentage of organic matter in the soil in the Target 
Areas; and 
(ii) 
increased percentage of land with SLM practices in the Target 
Areas. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports (IFR) for the 
Project are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank. The first IFR shall be furnished to the World 
Bank not later than 30 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter.  
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project, and those of the 
implementing agencies, audited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank 
not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods and works required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured 
in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006 (“Procurement Guidelines”) in the case of goods and 
works, and Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (“Consultant 
Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(“Procurement Plan”). 
Page  15
-14- 
 
2.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following 
methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
procurement of goods and works for those contracts specified in the Procurement 
Plan: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding
*
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Community participation in procurement 
(d)  Direct Contracting  
(*) Subject to complementing the rules applicable to National Competitive Bidding to 
ensure that: (i) bids are advertised in national newspapers with wide circulation; 
(ii) bid evaluation, bidder qualification and award criteria are specified clearly in the 
bidding documents; (iii) bidders are given adequate response time (minimum four 
weeks) to prepare and submit bids; (iv) bids are awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidder provided that this bidder is qualified; (v) eligible bidders, including foreign 
bidders, are not precluded from participating; and (vi) no preference margin is 
granted to domestic contractors. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, may be used for 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in 
the Procurement Plan: 
Page  16
-15- 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Least Cost Selection (LCS) 
(b)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
(d)  Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the World Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and 
(c) such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, Training 
and services under Part 
1
of
the Project 
 600,000 
100% 
(2)  Goods, Training, 
and services under Part 
2
of
the Project  
 700,000 
100% 
Page  17
-16- 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(3)  Goods, Training 
and services under Part 
3
of
the Project 
 700,000 
100% 
(4) SLM Sub-projects 
 
2,100,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(5)  Goods, Training, 
and consultants’ 
services, and Operating 
Costs under Part 4 of 
the Project 
 700,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 4,800,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
under Category (4) for a Sub-grant, unless a Sub-grant Agreement has 
been signed. 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
June 30, 2012. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
The Recipient shall recruit, no later than six (6) months after the Effective Date, 
an external auditor pursuant to terms of reference, acceptable to the World Bank.  
B. 
The Recipient shall prepare and submit to the World Bank annual work plans, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, no later than November 30 of 
each year. 
Page  18
-17- 
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“ANCAR” means 
Agence Nationale de Conseil Agricole et Rural
,
the 
Recipient’s agency responsible for agricultural and rural counsel, incorporated on 
March 17, 1997 (N.99.B.547). 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“ASPRODEB” means the Senegalese Association for Grassroots-level 
Development (
Association Sénégalaise pour la Promotion du Développement à 
la Base
), established in 1995 under the 
récépissé
 N° 8331/MINT-
DAGAT/DEL/AS and governed by Law n° 66-10 dated July 13, 1966, as 
modified by Law n° 68-08 of March 26, 1968, Decree n° 76040 of 
January 16, 1976 and Law n° 79-02 of January 4, 1979. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“CLCOP” means Producer Organizations Local Consultation Forum (
Cadre 
Local de Consultation des Organisations de Producteurs
)
established in 2000, 
governed by the Law No. N
o
66-70 du 13 juillet 1966 with the objective to 
support partnership between local actors and producer organizations. 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
7. 
“Displaced persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of a SLM 
Subproject under Part 3.C.(i) of the Project had or would have their: (i) standard 
of living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable 
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to 
productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) 
business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; 
and “Displaced Person” means any of the Displaced Persons. 
8. 
“EMP” or “Environmental Management Plan” means an environmental 
management plan, acceptable to the World Bank, to be prepared by Sub-grant 
Beneficiaries in connection with SLM Sub-projects describing the potential 
Page  19
-18- 
 
adverse environmental and social impacts of a SLM Sub-project during: 
(i) 
planning designing and construction; (ii) operation; and (iii) 
decommissioning, and outlines institutional arrangements for the implementation 
and monitoring of mitigation measures as well as cost estimates for these 
measures, sources of funding, adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting 
arrangements capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular 
feedback on compliance with, such environmental management plan. 
9. 
“Environmental and Social Impact Assessment” or “ESIA” means a specific 
environmental and social impact assessment, acceptable to the World Bank, to be 
prepared by Sub-grant Beneficiaries in connection with SLM Subprojects, giving 
details of the status of the natural and social environment, and potential risks and 
adverse impacts thereto, which are specific to the SLM Sub-project, along with 
proposed mitigation measures. 
10. 
“ESMF” or “Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the 
Recipient’s document dated November 26, 2005, and updated in May 2008, 
referred to in paragraph C of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and 
giving details of a program of actions, measures and policies designed to 
maximize the benefits of the Project, eliminate, offset or mitigate any adverse 
environmental impacts, or reduce such impacts to acceptable levels, along with 
the procedural and institutional measures needed to implement such actions, 
measures and policies. 
11. 
“Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by 
the Recipient for the purposes of implementation of the PSAOP II to be updated 
by the World Bank pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement, outlining 
financial management, and accounting arrangements, as shall have been agreed 
with the World Bank for purposes of Project implementation and shall be applied 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
approval of the World Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual. 
12. 
“Implementation Agreements” means the agreements to be entered into by the 
Recipient pursuant to Section 5.01(e) of this Agreement.
 
13. 
“INP” means the Recipient’s National Institute of Pedology (
Institut National de 
Pédologie
)
established pursuant to the Recipient’s 
Décret
 No. 2004-802 of 
June 28, 2004, which is responsible for the mandate to improve the productivity 
of land, in the framework of the government strategy to reduce rural poverty.
 
Page  20
-19- 
 
14. 
“ISRA” means the Recipient’s Agricultural Research Institute (
Institut 
Sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles
)
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law 
No. 74-53, dated April 11, 1974, as amended by Law No. 97-13, dated 
July 2, 1997, which is responsible for the mandate of agricultural research 
priorities.  
15. 
“Local Selection Committee” is the Recipient’s entity at community level 
composed of delegates of the CLCOP, Rural Producer Cooperatives and 
members of the Rural Council. 
16. 
“NARS” means the Recipient’s National Agricultural Research System, 
composed of the agricultural research services in the country with the objective 
of coordination, oversight and regulation and organizing the research system in 
line with the agricultural development objectives. 
17. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation and monitoring, including office supplies, vehicles 
operation and maintenance, communication costs, rental expenses, utilities 
expenses, consumables, transport, travel and accommodation, per diem, 
supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted staff, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
18. 
“Pest Management Plan” means the pest management plan of the Recipient 
disclosed in the World Bank’s 
Infoshop
 on April 17, 2009 and each pest 
management plan to be prepared by Sub-grant Beneficiaries in connection with 
SLM Subprojects under conditions defined in the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework. 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 22, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
21. 
“Producer Organization” means a group of producer organizations of the 
Recipient with activities within the Target Area, which are established as legal 
entities pursuant to the following laws and decrees of the Recipient : (i) Law 
n° 83-07 of January 28, 1983 and decree n° 83-320 of March 25,1983; and 
Page  21
-20- 
 
(ii) 
Law n° 85-40 of July 29,1985 modifying Law n° 84-07 of May 11, 1984 and 
Decree n° 93-153 of February 24,1993.  
22. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to strengthen the Recipient’s agricultural sector described in the letter 
from the Recipient to the World Bank, dated March 22, 1999. 
23. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual adopted by the 
Recipient for the implementation of PSAOP II, as revised by the Recipient 
pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement, detailing: (i) implementation, 
organizational, monitoring and procurement rules and procedures for the 
purposes of Project implementation; (ii) a standard model form of Sub-grant 
Agreement acceptable to the Association; (iii) the eligibility criteria for SLM 
Subprojects, the provision of Sub-grants, as shall have been agreed with the 
World Bank for purposes of Project implementation and shall be applied by the 
Recipient in accordance with the provisions of Section I.E of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior 
approval of the World Bank, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
24. 
“PSAOP II” means the second phase of the Agricultural Services and Producer 
Organizations’ project
 
(“
Projet de Services Agricoles et Organisations des 
Producteurs
”) financed through the Financing Agreement between the 
Association and the Recipient dated July 26, 2006.  
25. “PSAOP 
II 
Arrêté
”
means the 
Arrêté 
No. 005620 of August 22, 2006 adopted by 
the Recipient in the context of the PSAOP II.  
26. 
“RAP” or “Resettlement Action Plan” means an resettlement action plan, 
acceptable to the World Bank, to be prepared by Sub-grant Beneficiaries in 
connection with SLM Subprojects defining a program of actions, measures and 
policies designed to facilitate the compensation and resettlement of Displaced 
Persons, including the magnitude of displacement, proposed compensation and 
resettlement arrangements, budget and cost estimates, and sources of funding, 
together with adequate institutional, monitoring and reporting arrangements 
capable of ensuring proper implementation of, and regular feedback on 
compliance with, the Resettlement Action Plan. 
27. 
“RPF” or “Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework of the Recipient dated November 26, 2005, and updated in 
May 2008, outlining the policies and procedures to be implemented in the event 
that the implementation of SLM Subprojects requires land acquisition, thereby 
Page  22
-21- 
 
having potentially negative impacts on the livelihoods, assets and land of the 
affected population. 
28. 
“Rural Council” means the entity constituted by local elected representatives in 
charge of deliberating on matters linked to local administrative management, 
governed by Law n° 96-06 dated March 22, 1996. 
29. 
“Rural Producer Cooperative” means an agricultural cooperative established by 
producers in the rural communities. 
30. 
“Safeguard Documents” means collectively the ESMF, RPF, the EMPs, the Pest 
Management Plans and RPFs. 
31. 
“SLM” means sustainable land management. 
32. 
“SLM Knowledge Base” means the Recipient’s database referred to in Part 1.B. 
of the Project, with comprehensive information on SLM technologies and 
approaches and, in particular, SLM geo-referenced data and information, such as 
extension and severity of land degradation, soil fertility, vegetation cover, land 
use and land use change in the Recipient’s territory, including the data collected 
during the preparation of the SLM Strategic Investment Framework. 
33. 
“SLM Strategic Investment Framework” means the Recipient’s software program 
referred to in Part 4.A. of the Project, which is created to assist the Recipient to: 
(i) set SLM objectives, thematic and geographic priorities and investment needs; 
(ii) prioritize the activities and cost them; and (iii) identify and select the most 
appropriate mechanisms to achieve them. 
34. 
“SLM Subproject” means a specific development subproject for SLM activities 
to be carried out by a Producer Organization as identified through a diagnostic 
review of the POs, financed, or proposed to be financed through a Sub-grant 
under Part 3.C.(i) of the Project. 
35. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the 
World Bank out of Various Funds”, dated July 1, 2008. 
36. 
“Steering Committee” means the Project’s committee established and operating 
under the PSAOP II 
Arrêté
,
whose role has been expanded to cover the Project 
pursuant to Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement. 
Page  23
-22- 
 
37. 
“Sub-grant” means a grant made, or to be made, to a Producer Organization out 
of the proceeds of the Grant to finance a SLM Subproject under Part 3.C. (i) of 
the Project. 
38. 
“Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
ASPRODEB and a Sub-grant Beneficiary for the purpose of extending a Sub-
grant. 
39. 
“Sub-grant Beneficiary” means a Producer Organization that benefits from Sub-
grants awarded for SLM Subprojects. 
40. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to ASPRODEB. 
41. 
“Target Areas” means the Recipient’s regions/districts of Notto Djobass, 
Mewane, Dealy, Touba Mosquee, Fimela, Niakhar, Nganda, and Latmingue in 
the Groundnut Basin, which benefit from the activities of the Project, or any 
other region of the Recipient agreed with the World Bank. 
42. 
“TFCU” means the Project’s Technical and Fiduciary Coordination Unit 
established and operating under the PSAOP II 
Arrêté
,
whose role has been 
expanded to cover the Project pursuant to Section 5.01(c) of this Agreement. 
43. 
“TOMPRO” means the financial management software used by TFCU. 
44. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
such term including seminars, workshops, and study tours, and costs associated 
with such activity include travel and subsistence costs for training participants, 
costs associated with securing the services of trainers, rental of training facilities, 
preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other costs directly 
related to training preparation and implementation.
 
