                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR00002642



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-94263)



                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

         FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.8 MILLION

                                        TO

                          THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                      FOR A

                SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                September 17, 2013




Agriculture, Rural Development and Irrigation Unit (AFTA1)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective September 17, 2013)

                        Currency Unit = CFA (XOF)
                          CFA 1.00 = US$ 0.0020
                          US$ 1.00 = CFA 491.139

                              FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANCAR      Agence National de Conseil Agricole et Rural
           (National Rural and Agricultural Advisory Agency)
ASPRODEB   Association Sénégalaise pour la Promotion du Développement à la Base
           (Senegalese Association for Promoting Grassroots Development)
CAR        Conseiller Agricole et Rural (Agricultural and Rural Advisor)
CEA        Country Environmental Analysis
CLCOP      Cadre Local de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs
           (Local Consultation Forum for Producer Organizations)
CNIS-GDT   Cadre National d'Investissement Stratégique sur la Gestion Durable des Terres
           (National Strategic Investment Framework for SLM)
DAPSA      Direction de l’Analyse, de la Prévision et des Statistiques Agricoles
           (Directorate of Agricultural Analysis, Forecasting, and Statistics)
DRSP       Document Stratégique de Réduction de la Pauvreté
           (Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper)
GDP        Gross domestic product
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GEF-SIP    Global Environment Facility Strategic Investment Program for SLM in Sub-
           Saharan Africa
GEO        Global Environment Objectives
ha         Hectare
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
INP        Institut National de Pédologie (National Soil Sciences Institute)
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
ISRA       Institut Sénégalais de Recherche Agricole
            (Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute)
M          million
M&E        Monitoring and evaluation
NPV        Net Present Value
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PO         Producer Organization (PO)
PSAOP      Programme de Services Agricoles et Organisations de Producteurs
           (Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Program)
SENCAT     Système d’Information sur les Approches et Technique de Gestion Durable
           des Terres



                                       ii
        (Information System on the SLM Approach and Technologies)
SIF     National Strategic Investment Framework for SLM (see CNIS-GDT)
TTL     Task Team Leader
UCTF    Unité de Coordination Technique et Fiduciaire
        (Technical and Fiduciary Coordination Unit)
WAAPP   West Africa Agricultural Productivity Program




                Vice President: Makhtar Diop
             Country Director: Vera Songwe
               Sector Manager: Martien van Nieuwkoop
          Project Team Leader: Aifa Fatimata Ndoye Niane
            ICR Team Leader: Aifa Fatimata Ndoye Niane




                                 iii
                                                 SENEGAL
                                    Sustainable Land Management Project

                                                         CONTENTS


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................. v
B. Key Dates ......................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................. v
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................. vi
E. Bank Staff ........................................................................................................................ vi
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... viii
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... viii
I. Disbursement Profile ....................................................................................................... ix

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives, and Design ......................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners................. 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................................ 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component........................................................................................ 26
Annex 3. Financial and Economic Analysis ....................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................... 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................... 44
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............................ 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ............................................................................ 47
Map ………………………………………………………………………………………………. 48




                                                                  iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                                     Sustainable Land
Country:                            Senegal                   Project Name:
                                                                                     Management Project
Project ID:                         P108144                   L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-94263
ICR Date:                           09/13/2013                ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:                 SIL                       Borrower:              SENEGAL
Original Total Commitment:          USD 4.80M                 Disbursed Amount:      USD 4.78M
Revised Amount:                     USD 4.78M
Environmental Category: B                                     Global Focal Area: L
Implementing Agencies:
 Association Sénégalaise pour la Promotion du Développement à la Base (ASPRODEB)
Agence National de Conseil Agricole et Rural (ANCAR)
Institut Sénégalais de Recherche Agricole (ISRA)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                                       Revised / Actual
      Process                Date                Process            Original Date
                                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:          08/27/2008       Effectiveness:                                  03/05/2010
Appraisal:               02/25/2009       Restructuring(s):                               06/12/2012
Approval:                08/25/2009       Mid-term Review:           01/16/2012
                                          Closing:                   06/30/2012           12/31/2012


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                    Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
           Bank                 Ratings               Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:              Satisfactory    Government:                             Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision:        Satisfactory                                            Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                               Satisfactory                                            Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:




                                                     v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                             QAG Assessments (if
                                Indicators                                               Rating
      Performance                                       any)
Potential Problem Project at
                               No                       Quality at Entry (QEA): None
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                             Quality of Supervision
                               No                                                None
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
GEO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                        Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                        52                      52
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry                   19                      19
Public administration- Transportation                                      29                      29


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                          81                   81
Other rural development                                                     8                      8
Rural policies and institutions                                             11                   11

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:                Makhtar Diop                           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:              Vera Songwe                            Habib M. Fetini
Sector Manager:                Martien Van Nieuwkoop                  Karen McConnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:           Aifa Fatimata Ndoye Niane              Manievel Sene
ICR Team Leader:               Aifa Fatimata Ndoye Niane
ICR Primary Author:            Aifa Fatimata Ndoye Niane




                                                       vi
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
Contribute to the reduction of land degradation and the improvement of ecosystem functions and services
in the target areas by adopting sustainable land management practices through the provision of support to
the Recipient's research and agricultural and rural consultation system and to producer organizations.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators and reasons/justifications

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                              Actual Value
                                                                           Formally
                                                   Values (from                                 Achieved at
    Indicator            Baseline Value                                Revised Target
                                                     approval                                  Completion or
                                                                             Values
                                                   documents)                                  Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Increase percentage of organic matter in the soil in the target areas
Value
(quantitative or   0.2%                          0.23%                                     2.29%
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/16/2008                     12/31/2012                           12/31/2012
Comments           Achieved. Compared to the level measured at baseline, soil organic matter in the target
(incl. %           areas increased from 1.82% to 2.29%, an absolute increase of 0.47% and a relative
achievement)       increase of 25%. Initial target in the PAD was a 15% increase in soil organic matter.
Indicator 2 :      Increase of arable land with SLM practices in target areas
Value
(quantitative or   0%                            20% (20,000 ha)                           20,066 ha
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/16/2008                    12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments           100% Achieved. The PAD mentioned a target of 20,000 ha in the main text and 20% in
(incl. %           the results framework. Because no baseline mapping was done, it was difficult to specify
achievement)       the percentage increase, so the target of 20,000 ha was used.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                    Values (from                          Achieved at
    Indicator             Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                      approval                           Completion or
                                                                         Values
                                                     documents)                           Target Years
                   At least 3 new technologies in farming areas have been tested and proven successful by
Indicator 1 :
                   the end of the project
Value
(quantitative or   0                             3 new technologies                        3 new technologies
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/16/2009                        12/31/2012                           12/31/2012
Comments           100% Achieved. 3 new technologies are: (i) building stone bunds and planting trees
(incl. %           along isohyets to reduce water/wind erosion; (ii) planting multipurpose and salt-tolerant
achievement)       trees to restore saline soil; (iii) using ramial chipped wood to restore soil
                   SLM activities are integrated into the annual work plan of the Rural Advisory Agency in
Indicator 2 :
                   8 Rural Councils within the project target area by the end of the project
Value
(quantitative or   0                             8                                         8
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/16/2009                    12/31/2012                                12/31/2012



                                                      vii
Comments           100% Achieved. In the 8 Rural Councils, SLM technologies are now part of the advisory
(incl. %           work program of ANCAR's Agricultural and Rural Advisors (CARs). Technical
achievement)       datasheets were developed to support the dissemination of SLM technologies.
                   30 subproject proposals submitted by POs to implement SLM technologies are
Indicator 3 :
                   implemented by the end of the project
Value
(quantitative or   0 subproject                   30 subprojects                          36 subprojects
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/16/2009                      12/31/2012                                12/31/2012
Comments           120% Achieved. 36 SLM subprojects were implemented successfully and addressed low
(incl. %           soil fertility (13), water erosion (6), soil salinity (5), wind erosion (3), and other issues,
achievement)       including the high consumption of wood and charcoal for cooking (9).
Indicator 4 :      An SLM Investment Framework (SIF) is approved by the end of the project.
Value
                                                  SIF developed and                       SIF developed and
(quantitative or   SIF nonexistent
                                                  approved                                approved
qualitative)
Date achieved      07/16/2009                 12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
Comments           100% Achieved. The validated SIF was submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and
(incl. %           Rural Equipment (Ministère de l'Agriculture et de l'Equipement Rural). Several kinds of
achievement)       communication materials were developed based on the SIF.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                                      Actual Disbursements
 No.                                  GEO                               IP
          Archived                                                                         (USD millions)
  1       03/09/2010            Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        0.00
  2       10/31/2010            Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        1.12
  3       06/08/2011        Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                 2.20
  4       12/27/2011        Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                 3.50
  5       06/30/2012        Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                 4.39
  6       12/17/2012            Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        4.78

H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved GEO
    Date(s)                                Restructuring in           Changes Made
                  Change     GEO     IP     USD millions
                                                            (1) To extend the closing date from
                                                            June 30, 2012 to December 31,
                                                            2012.
  06/12/2012         N        MS     MS            4.39
                                                            (2) To revise some of the outcome
                                                            indicators to resolve ambiguities in
                                                            the version in French.




                                                       viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Land is a key resource in Senegal. The livelihood of 70 percent of Senegal’s
rural population—about half of the total population—depends directly on land. 1
Agriculture still employs about 60 percent of Senegal’s population, despite the sector’s
declining share in GDP in recent decades. Senegal’s national Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (Document Stratégique de Réduction de la Pauvreté, DRSP-II) regards agriculture
as a major source of growth for the economy, because it is particularly well placed to
stimulate inclusive growth and reduce poverty.

2.      An increasing concern for Senegal is that the resource base for agriculture is
not as robust as it once was. Almost two-thirds of the country’s arable land is
degraded—about 2.5 million hectares, according to the Senegal Country Environmental
Assessment (CEA, FY08). This land degradation occurred primarily because of
overgrazing and unsustainable agricultural practices, which sped deforestation, but
ancillary causes were population growth (which extended cultivated area and increased
the pressure on forest resources) and drought.

3.      Land degradation has a number of negative social, economic, and
environmental effects. Depleted soils cause agricultural productivity to stagnate; the lack
of productivity limits the potential for economic growth. Depleted soils also create
imbalances in ecosystems, which imperil waterways and the viability of wildlife habitats.
For rural people in particular, land degradation increases poverty and vulnerability by
reducing their options to pursue a livelihood and generate income. These circumstances
cause more young people to migrate to urban centers such as Dakar, but migration comes
at a high cost to society, including unemployment.

4.      Sustainable land management (SLM) offers opportunities to address land
degradation effectively. The Senegal CEA indicates that SLM could address land
degradation in a way that enhances the productivity of rural land over the long term, yet
despite isolated technical successes, the spread of SLM has remained relatively limited in
Senegal for a number of reasons. The country’s enabling environment for the diffusion
and use of SLM practices is weak. Government policies and regulations are inconsistent,
and the institutional capacity to support SLM adoption is limited. Efforts to foster SLM
have been circumscribed by a single-sector, project-specific approach. These problems
are compounded on the ground by unfavorable land tenure arrangements and poor
incentives to adopt SLM technologies and practices.

5.      Addressing land degradation and promoting the sustainable use of natural
resources have been prominent objectives in all national policies and strategies since
the National Action Plan for the Environment in 1993. The Senegalese Government
ratified the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification in 1995 and submitted
its National Action Program to Combat Desertification in 2000. The Agro-Silvo-Pastoral
1
    See the Country Environmental Analysis (FY08) for Senegal.


                                                    1
Orientation Law (Loi d’Orientation Agro-Sylvo-Pastorale, 2004) identifies the promotion
of better land use practices and improved soil fertility as key strategic objectives of the
national rural development policy. The Accelerated Growth Strategy (Stratégie de
Croissance Accélérée, 2006) identifies “sustainable agriculture” as a key driver of
Senegal’s economic growth. The National Action Plan for Climate Change Adaptation
(Plan d’Action National pour l’Adaptation aux Changements Climatiques, 2006)
describes SLM as an effective adaptation mechanism. The DSRP-II (2006–10) regards
the reduction of land degradation and promotion of sustainable agriculture and forestry as
priority objectives in the fight against poverty. Increasingly, the Government of Senegal
recognizes that it must scale up SLM approaches within existing institutions to address
land degradation effectively. Scaling up is best done through cross-sectoral programs, as
opposed to individual, stand-alone projects.

6.   The rationale for the World Bank's involvement in the Sustainable Land
Management Project was based on six considerations:

i) The Bank has long been involved in the agricultural sector policy dialogue, starting
   with the sectoral adjustment programs of the 1990s. The first and second phases of
   the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project (Programme de
   Services Agricoles et Organisation de Producteurs, PSAOP) have been instrumental
   in defining strategies and implementing reforms in the agricultural sector. The
   Senegal CEA provided an additional instrument to further the dialogue on natural
   resource management policy. The policy dialogue on agriculture and natural
   resources was an initial reference point for scaling up work on SLM in Senegal.

ii) The project’s objectives complemented those of other projects in the Bank’s rural
    portfolio. At appraisal, the Bank’s well-integrated rural portfolio in Senegal included
    several operations in addition to PSAOP2: the Agricultural Markets and Agribusiness
    Development Project (PDMAS), the Participatory Local Development Program, the
    Africa Emergency Locusts Project, and the West Africa Agricultural Productivity
    Program (WAAPP).

iii) The project would have strong links to previous and ongoing analytical and
     advisory activities. The Senegal CEA, which was supported by the World Bank, the
     Royal Netherlands Embassy, and TerrAfrica, provided an in-depth analysis of the
     most important environmental and natural resource management issues in Senegal,
     along with a set of recommendations to address them. The SLM Project was intended
     to be one of the instruments for implementing the recommendations of the Senegal
     CEA and the World Bank’s study on climate change in Africa.

iv) Technical and financial resources could be mobilized for SLM. The Bank’s
    convening power could be critical in leveraging support for SLM among development
    partners and other stakeholders.

v) The Bank had regional and global experience in developing and implementing
   SLM programs and investments. In supporting efforts to scale up SLM in Senegal,
   the Bank could draw upon its extensive regional and global experience, best practices,
   lessons, and other knowledge generated in collaboration with others.


                                            2
vi) The operation would assist in implementing TerrAfrica. TerrAfrica is an Africa-
    driven World Bank partnership program for sustainable land and water management
    in sub-Saharan countries. The SLM operation was designed to assist the
    implementation of the TerrAfrica Business Plan by enabling Senegal to scale up
    SLM.

7.      Another major consideration was that the SLM Project was consistent with the
regional Global Environment Facility Strategic Investment Program for SLM in Sub-
Saharan Africa (GEF-SIP). The project intended to support SIP objectives in two main
ways. First, it would support Senegal’s adoption of a more programmatic approach to
SLM by addressing some of the weaknesses in the enabling environment that hinder
SLM adoption and replication. Second, it would support Senegal in applying sustainable
practices that increase land productivity while securing ecosystem services in selected
priority areas. As part of GEF-SIP, the SLM operation would contribute directly to
implementing the GEF Land Degradation Focal Area Goal aimed at arresting and
reversing land degradation.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objective (GEO) and Key Indicators

8.      The project’s GEO was to contribute to the reduction of land degradation and the
improvement of ecosystem functions and services in the target areas by adopting
sustainable land management practices through the provision of support to the
Recipient’s research and agricultural and rural consultation system and to producer
organizations.

9.     The outcome indicators specified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
included:

   i) Increase percentage of organic matter in the soil in the Target Areas (baseline:
       0.20 percent; target value: 0.23 percent). Organic matter is an indicator of soil
       fertility, which in turn is a proxy for land quality, agricultural productivity, and
       ecosystem health.
   ii) Increase percentage of land with SLM practices in the Target Areas (baseline: 0
       percent; target value: 20 percent). The percentage of land with SLM practices is
       defined as the land area with SLM practices over the total land area. SLM
       practices include “technologies” as well as “approaches” applied to improve land
       quality. Technologies refer to agronomic, vegetative, structural, and management
       measures that reduce the effects of land degradation. Approaches are measures to
       introduce, apply, and implement SLM technologies.

10. The intermediate outcome indicators specified in the PAD were:

   i) At least 3 new technologies have been tested and proven successful by the end of
       the project.
   ii) SLM activities are integrated into the annual work plan of the Rural Advisory
       Agency in 30 Rural Councils within the project target area by the end of the
       project.


                                            3
    iii) Thirty project proposals submitted by producer organizations to implement SLM
         technologies are implemented by the end of the project.
    iv) An SLM Investment Framework is prepared by the end of the project.

11.     A new core indicator, established in 2012, is the number of beneficiaries. This
indicator was not in the PAD but will be taken into consideration for this ICR.

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

12.     The GEO did not change during project implementation. During the supervision
mission conducted in February 2011, however, the mission and the project
implementation team reformulated three indicators (one outcome indicator and two
intermediate outcome indicators). The indicators were revised to ensure better
interpretation of the results framework, consistency with the main text of the PAD, and
clarity in French as well as English: (i) increase of arable land with SLM practices in
target areas; (ii) at least 3 new technologies in farming areas have been tested and
proven successful by the end of the project; and (iii) SLM activities are integrated into
the annual work plan of the Rural Advisory Agency in 8 Rural Councils within the
project target area by the end of the project.2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     The project’s primary target groups or beneficiaries were the producers and their
organizations in eight rural communities 3 (administrative units). The project was
expected to improve the access of producers (including female producers) and their
organizations to SLM technologies. Leaders of producer organizations (POs) and other
local institutions would be trained in natural resource management policies and in
financial management, procurement, and accountability to strengthen their capacity to
develop and manage SLM subprojects.

14.     Aside from assisting those beneficiaries, the project would provide institutional
support to four implementing agencies: the Senegal Agricultural Research Institute
(Institut Sénégalais de Recherches Agricoles, ISRA), the Senegalese Association for
Promoting Grassroots Development (Association Sénégalaise pour la Promotion du
Développement à la Base, ASPRODEB), the National Rural and Agricultural Advisory
Agency (Agence National de Conseil Agricole et Rural, ANCAR) and the National Soil
Sciences Institute (Institut National de Pédologie, INP). The project was expected to
create synergies among these institutions by strengthening their cross-sectoral
coordination mechanisms and institutional capacity to generate and disseminate applied
research and knowledge on SLM.




2
 The change is indicated in boldface type.
3
 Notto Djobass and Méouane in the Northern Groundnut Basin; Dealy and Touba Mosquée in the Central
Groundnut Basin; and Fimela, Niakhar, Nganda, and Latmingue in the Southern Groundnut Basin.


                                                 4
1.5 Original Components

15.     As specified in the PAD, the project consisted of four components, similar to
those in PSAOP24 with which it was blended:

1) Component A - Support to the Agricultural Research System (US$ 0.6 million): The
   project was expected to strengthen ISRA’s capacity to generate and disseminate
   SLM-targeted research and knowledge. More specifically, this component aimed at:
   (i) supporting the implementation of demand-driven SLM research and development
   (R&D) activities by providing technical and financial support; (ii) financing baseline
   studies, including the collection of baseline information on the biophysical and
   socioeconomic characteristics of project sites; and (iii) strengthening ISRA’s capacity
   to generate, disseminate, and monitor SLM-targeted research and knowledge.

2) Component B - Strengthening Agricultural Advisory Services (US$ 0.7 million):
   This component aimed at: (i) strengthening the capacity in SLM within the
   agricultural extension system, including the capacity of ANCAR, farmer
   intermediaries, and service providers to deliver SLM packages and provide adequate
   technical backstopping on SLM, and (ii) delivering SLM packages by developing and
   delivering demand-driven, customer-tailored SLM advice through the agricultural
   extension system.

3) Component C - Support to Producer Organizations (US$ 2.8 million): This
   component was executed by ASPRODEB and aimed at: (i) strengthening the capacity
   of POs to integrate SLM in their production systems through training and other kinds
   of capacity building in SLM, advocacy and other forms of communication and public
   awareness related to SLM, and other activities; (ii) strengthening the capacity of
   leaders of POs and local political leaders to take account of SLM in formulating
   sectoral policies; and (iii) supporting the adoption of SLM practices by providing
   financial resources to implement SLM subprojects identified by suitable POs,
   assessed and approved by local assemblies, and satisfying the eligibility criteria.

4) Component D - Support to Sectoral Coordination (US$ 0.7 million): This
   component had two subcomponents. The first was to enable the Government of
   Senegal to move toward a more cross-sectoral and programmatic approach to SLM,
   including institutionalization of the SLM Committee as a national multisectoral
   forum, the formulation and adoption of a National Strategic Investment Framework
   for SLM (SIF)5 and the development of a national database incorporating information
   on SLM technologies and approaches. The second subcomponent would support the
   costs of managing the project, including its technical activities, fiduciary
   responsibilities and reporting, and M&E.

1.6 Revised Components

16.        The components were not revised.

4
    PSAOP2 implementation completion and results report number: ICR1415.
5
    Cadre National d'Investissement Stratégique sur la Gestion Durable des Terres (CNIS-GDT).


                                                     5
1.7 Other Significant Changes

17.     The major change was to extend the project’s closing date from June 30, 2012 to
December 31, 2012. The implementation support mission of April 2012 regarded a six-
month extension as vital for two main reasons. First, the extension would enable the
project to complete the measurement and analysis of PDO indicators. Second, it would
enable a core component of the project (Component C, support for POs) to consolidate its
results and achieve its objectives and targets. The extension made it possible to achieve
both goals.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

18.     The design of the SLM Project reflected knowledge and lessons emerging from
several main sources, including other projects in Senegal, particularly PSAOP; SLM
operations throughout Africa; findings and recommendations from the CEA; and results
of three analytical studies related to SLM. The major lessons reflected in the project’s
design included:

i) Enabling activities are not sufficient on their own and must be accompanied by on-
   the-ground investments. For that reason, the SLM Project would not only support
   activities to improve the enabling environment for SLM but would support on-the-
   ground investments that would generate results rapidly and add to the momentum for
   SLM in Senegal.

ii) Improved cross-sectoral coordination is critical to scaling up SLM: The SLM
    Project would support cross-sectoral coordination mechanisms and provide technical
    and financial support to develop the National Investment Framework for SLM.

iii) POs foster change and promote sustainability. PSAOP showed that institutional
     reforms and new relationships between clients and service providers emerge when
     producers are empowered and can contribute to the cost of the services they need.
     PSAOP2 deepened this approach by channeling more financial resources through POs
     to increase the accountability and client orientation of agricultural services. A central
     element of the SLM Project was to strengthen the capacity of POs and empower them
     along similar lines.

iv) In the agricultural sector, there is a need to shift the focus from commodity
    production to land productivity and environmental sustainability. The impact and
    long-term sustainability of agricultural interventions were limited when they focused
    mainly on commodity production and agricultural intensification rather than on
    sustainable management of land and land productivity. Better integration of SLM
    approaches into the agricultural sector could potentially address these limitations.

19.     Generally speaking, the SLM Project was prepared rigorously through a
participatory approach involving all key stakeholders (including ISRA, INP, ANCAR,



                                              6
and ASPRODEB), who helped to develop the components that they were to implement.
This process ensured that those stakeholders shared a sound understanding and ownership
of the project at entry and built on this advantage during implementation to deliver a
successful project. During preparation, the team correctly identified some of the key risks,
such as uncertain land tenure status for farmers, which could discourage long-term
investments in practices such as SLM; institutional conflicts, which could prevent the
adoption of a multisectoral approach to SLM; and risks related to financial management.
The measures identified to mitigate those risks worked well. The institutional
arrangements and the selection of executing agencies were sound and were based on
experience with both phases of PSAOP. Other aspects of the project, such as financial
management and procurement, were also well developed.

20.     At entry, the project benefited from the high commitment of the Government of
Senegal, which was very concerned by the negative effects of land degradation on
agricultural development. At the local level, the project took advantage of institutions set
up under both phases of PSAOP, especially the Local Consultation Forums for Producer
Organizations (Cadres Locaux de Concertation des Organisations de Producteurs,
CLCOPs). The CLCOPs—which were charged with identifying which POs would
present proposals for subprojects to foster the adoption of SLM practices and
technologies—had a critical role in implementing the project. As grassroots organizations,
they displayed considerable commitment to the project, which they regarded as a good
opportunity to move local development forward.

21.     Despite these efforts, the design of the SLM Project had shortcomings. First, the
limited budget envisaged at appraisal made it challenging to identify the project’s target
areas. Following several field visits with stakeholders during project preparation, the
project finally targeted 8 rural communities out of an original target of 30. Note that the
final version of the PAD was not reviewed carefully, as the results framework maintained
the target value of 30 rural communities, whereas the main text indicated that the project
would cover 8 rural communities. This discrepancy was later corrected through
restructuring.

22.      A second shortcoming was the PAD’s gender-blindness. The document contained
no specific arrangements or explicit targeting to reach women and youth. The word
“women” appears once in the entire document, in reference to the representative of the
Ministry of Women on the steering committee. Yet Senegalese women are fully involved
in agriculture and well represented in the CLCOPs leadership, and the relationship
between gender and land issues is a recurrent subject of debate and concern. Fortunately,
the project adopted a gender-sensitive approach following guidance from the Bank as part
of its implementation support.

23.     Finally, the lifetime of the project was three years—a workable but fairly rigorous
timeframe for implementing an environmental and agricultural project of this nature. The
short implementation period heightened the urgency of successfully resolving any issues
that arose during implementation (see the next section).




                                             7
2.2 Implementation

24.     The project appears to have been appropriately designed and ready for
implementation (one indication is that it underwent only a slight restructuring in its final
year, when the outcome indicators were reformulated). Even so, implementation required
some time to gain momentum. Delays on the part of the implementing agencies,
challenges in project supervision on the part of the World Bank, and the practical
difficulties inherent in implementing cross-sectoral coordination of SLM affected the
pace of implementation. As a result, the project’s performance was rated moderately
satisfactory three times during implementation, before the combined interventions of the
supervision missions and implementing agencies injected new momentum into the project,
which then solidly achieved (and in one instance significantly exceeded) its targets.

25.     Given the location-specificity of SLM practices and the learning curve involved,
ISRA’s soil analysis (organic matter assessment), socioeconomic characterization, and
research to develop and test SLM technologies required some time to get up to speed.
ANCAR’s development activities also started slowly, because the agency did not execute
its budget as per the 2010 annual work plan and budget. Turnover in the implementation
team (particularly the ISRA researcher leading implementation of Component A and the
ANCAR accounting expert), as well as the limited capacity of ANCAR’s financial
management system to accommodate the SLM Project, imposed additional challenges.

26.     On the World Bank side, the project’s task team leadership changed twice,
affecting the timing of implementation support missions and preventing the mid-term
review from taking place. Even so, implementation support from the Bank remained
close, and responsiveness on the part of the implementing agencies counteracted the
effects of initial delays and unforeseen turnover. Each implementing agency was asked to
prepare an action plan to ensure that activities were implemented and results delivered
without delay, and funds were reallocated to permit ISRA to complete the socioeconomic
study.

27.     In implementing the cross-sectoral and institutional coordination mechanisms
envisioned in the PAD, the agencies involved—ANCAR, ISRA, INP, and
ASPRODEB—needed consistent, specific guidance to develop functional, synergistic
partnerships and overcome established institutional barriers. Over time, and with the
benefit of more continuous advice, collaboration among these agencies improved. For
example, the Agricultural and Rural Advisors (Conseillers Agricoles et Ruraux, CARs)
were involved in all field activities either implemented by their own institution (ANCAR)
or by ASPRODEB; eventually, seamless collaboration made it difficult to differentiate
which activities were implemented by which agency. INP brought stakeholders from
various sectors together to develop and validate the SIF.

28.     The issues that initially slowed momentum were resolved. The project achieved
its objectives, with some transformative results at the community and institutional levels.
The strong commitment and engagement of the POs, CLCOPs, implementing agencies,
and government (which requested the extension of the closing date), as well as leadership
from the implementation support missions, were critical to those achievements.


                                             8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

29.     The monitoring system was generally well designed. Minor shortcomings were
sorted out during implementation. As noted, ambiguities that obscured the English–
French translation of three indicators were resolved. A particular concern for M&E was
the outdated (1990s) baseline value for the PDO indicator related to soil organic matter; a
soil analysis and mapping study planned for the project’s first year to update the baseline
values in the PAD and measure the PDO indicators was delayed considerably. Soil
samples were taken in the first year, before SLM technologies were in place, but the soil
analysis was not completed until the end of the project. In the end, the baseline study
more closely resembled an environmental impact study, because it measured the
evolution of soil organic matter and the area covered with SLM technologies before and
with the project.

30.     Initially monitoring was affected by the uneven flow of information from
subprojects and implementing agencies. The implementation support mission
recommended that the Technical and Fiduciary Coordination Unit (Unité de Coordination
Technique et Fiduciaire, UCTF) organize regular field visits to collect the data rather than
waiting for data to arrive from the implementing agencies. After the M&E team
implemented that recommendation, the consistent collection of field data enabled the
results framework to be updated regularly. At the Bank team’s request, the UCTF made
every effort to disaggregate field data by gender.

31.     For the impact study at the end of the project, the POs worked with ASPRODEB
to evaluate their SLM subprojects and gain a bigger picture of the project’s
environmental and economic impacts. ANCAR organized a workshop to assess the
project’s main achievements and challenges (Annex 6). An economic and financial
assessment of the project was also done (Annex 3).

2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

32.     Safeguards. The project was classified as a safeguard screening Category S2 and
environmental screening Category B and required a partial assessment. Two focal points
were trained to deal with these issues and provide follow-up. During implementation, the
focal point for environmental safeguards worked with the POs to ensure that subprojects
were implemented in compliance with the Bank’s safeguards. Each subproject was
subject to an environmental screening; no significant negative environmental effects were
found.

33.     For subprojects that constructed anti-saline dams, local environmental authorities
visited the sites, validated the environmental screening, and verified public compliance
with safeguards. The authorities recommended the integration of all environmental and
social safeguard provisions in service providers’ contracts.

34.    For all other subprojects, guidelines for environmental and social safeguards were
developed and applied by ASPRODEB prior to approval. The guidelines, which were
based on the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Pesticide and


                                             9
Pest Management Plan, specified the environmental criteria that applied when selecting
subprojects, procedures for identifying potential environmental and social impacts of
subprojects, and actions to be taken by POs to minimize the impacts. ASPRODEB
followed up with subproject managers within POs to help them implement the actions
proposed in the guidelines. These procedures ensured that the overall project complied
with the Bank’s safeguard policies.

35.     Procurement. Overall, the UCTF conformed to International Development
Association (IDA) procurement guidelines and procedures. The implementing agencies
set up units to handle procurement and bidding procedures as required under the reform
effective in Senegal as of January 2008. Despite the departure of the UCTF’s
procurement specialist in 2010 and difficulties in filling the position, the accounting
assistant who served as acting procurement specialist did her best to handle the project
procurement plan. The quality of procurement may have suffered owing to some lack of
capacity in some of the implementing agencies, but this concern was addressed by
capacity building organized by the Bank.

36.     Financial management. Financial management was generally adequate, carried
out by a team using appropriate management tools. Financial monitoring reports were
done well and on time, and the conditions for disbursement were consistently met. Audit
reports were issued with unqualified opinions. Weaknesses previously observed in the
POs’ management of subprojects, including deficiencies in financial auditing or oversight,
were addressed by a consultant hired by ASPRODEB to conduct financial monitoring of
the POs.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37.      The SLM was a pilot project funded under the GEF-4 replenishment cycle. In the
following GEF-5 replenishment cycle (July 2010–14), a new operation, the Sustainable
and Inclusive Agribusiness Project (Projet de Développement Inclusif et Durable de
l'Agrobusiness au Sénégal, PDIDAS) funded by GEF at US$ 6 million, is at an advanced
stage of preparation. This new project, which targets the Ngalam Valley and Lac de
Guiers areas, is being developed under a broad umbrella program—the Sahel and West
Africa Program. It has been endorsed by the government and has been designed to reflect
the lessons learned from the SLM Project. Under the WAAPP, efforts are also being
made to build on the SLM Project’s achievements. Given that its primary aim is to
increase productivity, the WAAPP must give attention to restoring and sustaining soil
fertility through good land management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

38.     Several characteristics of the SLM Project’s design and implementation made it
highly relevant and fully consistent with regional and national development priorities. At
the regional level, extending the area under SLM is the key objective of Pillar 1 of the
Comprehensive African Agriculture Development Program under the New Partnership


                                           10
for Africa’s Development. It is also a key objective of Program Area 1 (Degradation) of
the Environmental Action Plan. The SLM Project was designed to contribute directly to
those objectives.

39.     At the national level, DSRP-II (2006–10) gave high priority to combating land
degradation and promoting sustainable agriculture, and the Country Assistance Strategy
(2007–10) recognized that enhancing land productivity on a sustainable basis was
important for unlocking the potential for rural growth. The Accelerated Growth Strategy
also viewed sustainable agriculture as an important driver of national economic growth.
The national rural development policy emphasized the importance of improving land use
and soil fertility. The National Action Plan for Climate Change Adaptation identified
SLM as an effective climate adaptation activity.

40.    More recently, SLM has been cited as a key objective for the agricultural sector in
the new National Strategy for Economic and Social Development 2013–17 (Stratégie
Nationale de Développement Economique et Social). The new Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS 2013–17), which is based on strengthening the governance framework and
building resilience, features specific activities to manage the risk of natural disasters and
increase SLM to enhance resilience across the economy.

41.     By developing and transferring SLM technologies and funding SLM subprojects
identified and managed by POs, the SLM Project helped to restore and sustain local
productive resources. A common failing of natural resource management projects is that
they do not involve local communities. In contrast, the starting point for the SLM Project
was community-driven demand. As a result, the project elicited intense interest and
involvement at the community level, resulting in a high level of ownership for the SLM
practices that communities eventually adopted. Among POs, the project fostered greater
awareness of and commitment to the restoration and preservation of their natural resource
base. This empowerment led the communities to develop and advance novel initiatives on
their own behalf. Some communities, for example, signed conventions to preserve their
natural resources (see Annex 6 for an example).

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

    Rating: Satisfactory

42.     Overall, achievement of the GEO is Satisfactory, based on the achievement of
agreed GEO indicators and intermediate outcome indicators. The SLM Project met both
agreed GEO indicators:

i) The percentage of soil organic matter in the target areas increased from 1.82
   percent to 2.29 percent, an absolute increase of 0.47 percent and a relative increase of
   25 percent. The baseline value for soil organic matter in the PAD was 0.20 percent
   and the target was 0.23 percent, corresponding to a 15 percent increase. As indicated,
   those values were measured in the 1990s and represented the average rate across the
   Groundnut Basin. An updated baseline value of 1.82 percent was derived from
   ISRA’s soil analysis in each of the project’s eight target areas.


                                             11
ii) SLM practices were used on 20,066 hectares in the target areas, versus the target of
    20,000 hectares contained in the main text of the PAD (in addition to the target of 20
    percent in the results framework). Given that no baseline mapping was undertaken, a
    percentage increase was difficult to specify, so the project used the target of 20,000
    hectares in monitoring progress.

43.    Aside from achieving these SLM targets, the project was transformative at the
community level, where it elicited strong commitment among producers to implement
subprojects that adhered to principles of good governance and transparency. The
Government of Senegal’s ICR mentions that POs unanimously attested to the project’s
innovative approach of assigning full accountability to the POs for managing their
subprojects and reinforcing their capacity (particularly in financial management and
procurement) to manage effectively.

44.     Training in SLM technologies was organized over 43 sessions for 3,350
producers. To improve the capacity of leaders of POs or local institutions to manage
SLM subprojects, 214 received training in natural resource management and 150 received
training in financial management, procurement, and accountability.

45.     The number of direct beneficiaries of the different components of the project is
estimated at 26,257 producers, of whom more than half (13,937, or 53 percent) were
women. Throughout the project, beneficiaries expanded their natural resource
management knowledge and skills by engaging in a range of activities, including
agroforestry, reforestation, and tree nurseries (250,225 seedlings were produced and
planted); making gabions and stone bunds; rehabilitating livestock watering ponds;
building soil fertility through applications of chemical and organic fertilizer (phosphate
and compost, for example); using energy-saving stoves; and making exchange visits with
other communities that had adopted SLM practices.

46.     Table 1 summarizes the achievement of intermediate performance indicators for
the four main components of the SLM Project. Additional detail is available in Annex 2.

          These video links provide more information on the SLM Project’s achievements:
                     http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lxtyl3tj35Q (French)
                   http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AelCFXW6d2s (English)




                                               12
                                           Table 1: Achievement of intermediate results indicators by component, SLM Project
Intermediate Outcome Indicators              Baseline      End Target     Achievement at          Level of   Comments
                                            July 2009 December 2012        End of Project      Achievement
Component A: Support for the Agricultural Research System (Satisfactory)
At least 3 new technologies in farming          0              3                  3             Achieved      The three new technologies: (i) building stone bunds and
areas have been tested and proven                                                                             planting trees along isohyets to reduce water and wind erosion;
successful by the end of the project                                                                          (ii) planting multipurpose and salt-tolerant trees to restore and
                                                                                                              improve saline soils on agro-silvo-pastoral land; (iii) using ramial
                                                                                                              chipped wood (bois raméal fragmenté—deciduous tree
                                                                                                              trimmings) to improve soil fertility (an organic soil amendment).
Component B: Strengthening Agricultural Advisory Services (Satisfactory)
SLM activities are integrated into the         0               8                  8             Achieved      In the 8 Rural Councils, SLM technologies are now part of the
annual work plan of the Rural Advisory                                                                        work program for ANCCAR’s agricultural and rural advisors
Agency in 8 Rural Councils within the                                                                         (CARs). Technical datasheets were developed to support
project’s target areas by the end of the                                                                      dissemination of SLM technologies.
project
Component C: Support to Producer Organizations (Highly Satisfactory)
30 subproject proposals submitted by           0               30                 36           Overachieved   36 SLM subprojects were implemented successfully and
POs to implement SLM technologies                                                                             addressed low soil fertility (13); water erosion (6); soil salinity
are implemented by the end of the                                                                             (5); wind erosion (3); and other issues, including the high
project                                                                                                       consumption of wood and charcoal for cooking (9). The
                                                                                                              innovative aspect of this component was its community-driven
                                                                                                              development approach, which gave POs full accountability for
                                                                                                              subprojects and fostered high levels of interest in, commitment
                                                                                                              to, and ownership of SLM subprojects.
Component D: Support to Sectoral Coordination (Satisfactory)
A national strategic investment             SIF non-   SIF developed and   SIF developed and    Achieved      The validated SIF was submitted to the Ministry of Agricultural
framework for SLM (SIF) is approved         existent        approved            approved                      and Rural Equipment. Other communication tools were
by the end of the project                                                                                     developed based on the SIF.




                                                                                   13
3.3 Efficiency

47.     An economic and financial analysis of SLM was done at project appraisal (for the
PAD) and completion (for this ICR). The aim was to determine whether sustainable
improvements in smallholders’ agricultural production, productivity, and income,
induced by the adoption of SLM technologies under the project, were economically and
financially profitable in relation to the investments made.

48.      The analysis for this ICR was based on a review of project documents and
secondary data, as well as interviews with beneficiaries (producers) and the other main
stakeholders involved in the project. The methodology assessed and compared costs
(investment and production costs) and benefits. Investment costs included costs of
training, building producers’ awareness of SLM technologies, institutional support, and
technical assistance. Production costs consisted of the costs of inputs (seed, fertilizer, and
pesticide), small equipment, and in some cases labor. Data on production costs were
collected from the Directorate of Agricultural Analysis, Forecasting, and Statistics
(Direction de l’Analyse, de la Prévision et des Statistiques Agricoles, DAPSA). The
benefits consisted of the increases in productivity, area, and production of the main crops
(millet, groundnuts, rice, cowpeas, cassava, and maize) under SLM technologies over the
project implementation period (2010–12). Production was valued at the observed market
price. For some technologies, such as charcoal-saving stoves and biogas, the benefits
were a 50 percent reduction in the cost of charcoal consumption and a reduction in the
time that women spent collecting wood. The analysis was done for the overall project as
well as for each type of subproject or technology.

49.       Annex 3 presents detailed results of the economic and financial analysis. For the
project as a whole, the economic Internal Rate of Return (IRR) was 170 percent, much
higher than the opportunity cost of capital in large public investments (17–25 percent).
The Net Present Value (NPV) was estimated at US$ 1.75 million. Similarly, the financial
analysis, based on observed market prices, showed an IRR of 95 percent, which is higher
than the opportunity cost of capital in the agricultural sector (estimated at 12 percent).
The NPV was estimated at US$ 1.2 million. Cash flow was negative in the first year but
became positive from the second year and increased much more in the third year of
implementation as SLM technologies covered a greater area. The financial analysis by
type of SLM subproject or technology suggests that most SLM subprojects were
profitable and exhibited high financial IRRs of 30–73 percent. Only the subproject
focused on planning to prevent water erosion displayed negative cash flow over the three
years of implementation, but it would become profitable in year five with a financial IRR
of 51 percent.

50.       All of these results support the conclusion that the project was economically and
financially sound. Overall, the IRRs calculated for the project at completion (ICR) are
even better than those expected at appraisal (PAD)—an economic IRR of 170 percent
versus 93 percent, and a financial IRR of 95 percent versus 27 percent.

51.     The SLM Project is also expected to generate greater economies of scale and
improve the cost-effectiveness of SLM interventions owing to its success in strategically


                                             14
and incrementally fostering a more cross-sectoral and programmatic approach to SLM.
This result was achieved by: (i) strengthening ISRA’s capacity to generate new, proven
SLM technologies; (ii) strengthening the capacity of ANCAR and ASPRODEB as
service providers, which improved the transfer of SLM technologies to POs; (iii)
facilitating SLM adoption by producers and their organizations, with positive impacts on
soil fertility and subsequently on productivity, and production; and (iv) writing the SIF to
facilitate the alignment and harmonization of current and future interventions and the
sharing of experiences, thus reducing transaction costs and increasing the impact of
interventions.

52.      The SLM Project was blended with PSAOP2 (which closed much earlier, in
June 2011) and co-financed by IDA, the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), GEF, the Government of Senegal, and POs. In PSAOP2, the Government of
Senegal provided 69 percent of counterpart funds compared to what was originally
envisaged (Annex 1).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
    Rating: Satisfactory

53.     Overall project outcomes are rated as Satisfactory. Considering the relevance of
the project’s objectives, design, and implementation, as well as the achievement of the
development objectives and efficiency, the overall project outcome is rated Satisfactory.
The project’s relevance is confirmed by its direct efforts to address land degradation, a
fundamental constraint on agricultural development that is emphasized in numerous
national and regional development strategies. The agreed GEO indicators and
intermediate outcome indicators were fully achieved. The project was efficient, as
indicated by the high financial and economic rates of return. Finally, the project was
extremely transformative. It created new momentum at the community level by engaging
coalitions of producers in developing and successfully managing SLM subprojects, and it
created new momentum among the implementing agencies by engaging them in a more
efficient, cross-sectoral approach to SLM.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.    The M&E system, the financial and economic analysis, the government’s ICR,
and the field visits during the implementation support missions highlighted key project
impacts on food security and poverty alleviation. All told, SLM practices were used on
20,066 hectares in the target areas, and SLM technologies developed and disseminated
under the project restored saline and degraded soils and expanded cropped area by 647
hectares. SLM technologies adopted on cultivated land contributed to food security and
generated income to better meet needs for healthcare, education, clothing, and housing,
among others. In addition, SLM technologies to improve soil fertility are estimated to
have increased yields in a number of ways. For example, practices to control the parasitic
weed Striga helmonthica (witch weed), which thrives in less fertile soils and makes them
even less productive, increased millet yields from 550 to 850 kilograms per hectare.


                                            15
Using groundnut shells as a soil amendment in lowland rice production increased yields
from 1,200 to 2,300 kilograms per hectare, and using compost as organic fertilizer for
groundnut production increased yields from 600 to 1,400 kilograms per hectare. (For
farmers’ personal testimonials, see Box 1).

                             Box 1: Giving the microphone to the beneficiaries
     A producer from Méouane rural community stated: “Before the project, my agricultural
      production covered just about three months of my household consumption needs, but with the
      project, with the use of organic amendment, my yield increased by 50 percent, allowing me to
      cover seven to eight months of my consumption needs.”

     In Simal rural community, the anti-saline dam built through the project helped to recover land
      that had been infertile and abandoned for years. Fatou Faye, a female head of household and
      rice producer, said: “From November to May 2012, I managed to cover my family rice
      consumption with my production. In addition, while it had been difficult to get to the village in
      the rainy season, the dam made our village accessible.”

     In Notto Diobass rural community, Ndeye Fatou Ndiaye, a local female leader and president of
      CLCOP, observed: “With the 30,000 plants produced with the project, we hope to turn our local
      landscape green in the near future. Also, before, I spent FCFA 300 [US$ 0.6] per day to buy wood
      for cooking. With the use of the improved charcoal-saving stoves, I spent only FCFA 100
      [US$ 0.2]. My house is cleaner, and the fire risks are reduced.”

     In Notto Diobass rural community, a young man said: “I migrated to Thies City and was a taxi-
      man, but I came back to the village because of the project. With my agroforestry activities and
      the use of compost, I am earning more than in town now.”

55.     For some villages that were entirely isolated during the rainy season, the dams
built under the project have improved access to markets, schools, and health centers. The
fruit tree nurseries and other horticultural activities pursued by women promise to
increase local fruit and vegetable production and improve nutrition in the local population
in the short run.

56.    As discussed, more than half of the project’s beneficiaries were women (53
percent). Through its community demand-driven approach, the project addressed
concerns of particular interest to women, and it succeeded in providing appropriate SLM
technologies to address those concerns (Box 2). The Bank’s emphasis on an inclusive
approach with respect to gender and the strong involvement of rural women in the
leadership of CLCOPs played a major role in achieving such results.

57.     Young people, especially heads of households, were heavily involved in
implementing the project as well, and they account for a substantial share of its
beneficiaries. The development of agroforestry and other SLM approaches through the
project increased agricultural yields and productivity and gave young people new options
to pursue sustainable livelihoods in rural areas, reducing the likelihood of migration to
urban centers in search of employment.




                                                   16
                                Box 2: SLM Project benefits for women
     Under the project component to support POs, 36 SLM community-driven subprojects managed
      by POs were financed and implemented. In developing and disseminating SLM technologies for
      the subprojects, the needs of women as well as men were addressed. The direct beneficiaries of
      the POs component numbered an estimated 17,990, of whom 9,991 (55 percent) were women
      (across all components of the project, women constituted 53 percent of beneficiaries).

     The SLM Project fostered positive changes in land tenure for women at the grassroots level.
      Women were encouraged to request ownership of land as a group from the rural community.
      Individually, women were encouraged to purchase land or to request an allotment from their
      husbands to use as owners rather than as tenants (tenancy was the prevailing custom). The
      introduction of some technologies that elicited great interest among women, such as the
      establishment of fruit orchards, led to these changes in land tenure.

     The diffusion of technologies responding to women ’s specific needs, such as improved charcoal-
      saving stoves and biogas from manure, freed women from the need to collect so much
      fuelwood far from the homestead and gave them more time to devote to remunerative
      activities. About 6,600 improved charcoal-saving stoves have been distributed to women
      through SLM subprojects managed by POs headed by women. The stoves reduce deforestation
      by reducing the pressure on natural resources. The number of beneficiaries will increase after
      the project ends, because some POs are subsidizing half of the price of stoves and making them
      available on credit to women outside the POs in the village and surrounding areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

58.     Because the SLM Project reinforced the positive institutional impact of PSAOP2,
which closed in 2011 and with which it was integrated, the SLM Project’s institutional
development impact was substantial. The greatest institutional impact occurred at the
local level among POs and CLCOPs. By relying upon POs and CLCOPs to manage their
SLM subprojects technically and financially, the project engendered greater social
cohesion, a stronger commitment to development, and increased confidence and capacity
at the community level. The POs and CLCOPs successfully implemented their 36
subprojects while fully adhering to principles of good governance and transparency. They
highly appreciated the capacity building in which they participated and which increased
their managerial skills. They are rightfully proud of their accomplishments and eager to
further their work in SLM to better protect their environment. They are well organized
and meet regularly to discuss local development issues. It bears emphasizing that these
people are no longer the objects of externally proposed development activities but have
become the subjects of their own development. The POs and CLCOPs have learned to
formulate their demands for services from the research and extension system and other
government services, and they are more fully engaged in the market economy.

59.    On the research and extension side, ISRA, INP, ANCAR, and ASPRODEB
valued the collaborative work experience. They will keep strengthening their partnership
to improve their delivery of results and increase their impact on development.




                                                  17
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

60.    In Wellou Bell village, a subproject managed by the CLCOP (which was led by a
woman) improved the water retention capacity of the pond where livestock were watered
and had the unanticipated result of increasing the availability of milk and manure.
Because the improved pond provided more water for a longer period, it enabled
pastoralists to remain in the village with their livestock from August until November-
December, instead of moving in October as they had done previously. The extended
presence of livestock in the village undoubtedly had a positive impact on nutrition by
making milk available for a longer period, and it probably also improved soil fertility and
crop yields through the increased availability of manure. Because Wellou Bell is a
crossroads village, the pond is used by pastoralists moving seasonally from other regions
with about 2,000 cattle and 15,000 sheep and goats. Their presence adds to the
socioeconomic activity in Wellou Bell.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

61.     The beneficiary survey was part of the Government of Senegal’s ICR, which was
done by a team of independent consultants who visited seven of the eight rural
communities participating in the project. To improve their understanding of the project’s
results and impacts, the ICR team conducted focus group discussions with the main
groups of beneficiaries, including producers, members of POs, local authorities,
extension staff, the CARs of ANCAR, and staff of the other implementing agencies. The
key findings of the government’s ICR included:

   Despite its slow start, implementation of the SLM Project moved more quickly as the
    project continued and yielded satisfactory results, not only by achieving the results
    specified in the outcome indicators but by creating synergies among institutions and
    actors to develop and use SLM technologies.
   Because the project’s direct beneficiaries were also the main actors in its
    implementation, the SLM Project’s participatory, inclusive, and community demand-
    driven approach was innovative. Unanimously, the producers and their organizations
    appreciated the project and requested a nationally scaled-up second phase.
   The capacity building in which POs, CLCOPs, local authorities, and technicians
    participated has set the stage for better selection and adaptation of SLM tools and
    technologies as well as advocacy for SLM at the local and national levels.
   On the research side, in addition to the baseline work, which provided a better
    understanding of the biophysical and socioeconomic environment, ISRA was able to
    test and validate SLM technologies on farmers’ fields, increasing the likelihood of
    adoption. Information on this valuable research must be disseminated more widely.
   ANCAR successfully expanded its field activities by integrating advice on SLM. It
    increased the effectiveness of its staff by building partnerships with other public and
    private institutions working on SLM.
   Improved cross-sectoral coordination resulted in the development of the SIF through
    a successful process managed by INP in partnership with the different stakeholders.
   The UCTF capitalized on the experience gained under both phases of PSAOP to
    manage the project satisfactorily. The unit created a good framework for


                                            18
   collaboration with the implementing agencies, and together they are responsible for
   the successful implementation of all four project components.

62.    In its results completion report, ASPRODEB concluded that using a community
demand-driven approach to increase the dissemination of SLM technologies at the
national level would probably significantly reduce the overall vulnerability of rural
households, improve food security, and limit the exodus of young people from rural areas.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

63.     The impacts of the SLM technologies generated and disseminated under the
project were consistent in terms of land recovery, fertility restoration, productivity,
production, and preservation of the environment. In addition, by using a community
demand-driven approach, the project reinforced commitment and ownership of the
project among the beneficiaries—producers, POs, and CLCOPs, who also valued the
capacity building under the project. The project’s economic and financial soundness, as
well as its impacts on the environment, social development, and institutional
strengthening, ensure sustainability and suggest that the risk to development outcomes is
low. The social capital developed from empowering the POs and CLCOPs can be
expected to endure and grow. Some female managers of POs operating SLM subprojects
took the initiative to make the improved charcoal-saving stoves available on credit, with
half of the price subsidized, instead of distributing them for free, so that more women
within the village and surrounding villages could have access to the technology. This
decision powerfully illustrates their willingness to sustain their subproject and natural
resources. More evidence comes from the agreements signed by community members to
ensure better preservation of their natural resources (Annex 6)—an initiative that
emerged spontaneously, without any intervention by the project’s implementing agencies.

64.     With respect to the sustainability of project outcomes among the implementing
agencies, ASPRODEB’s good performance in implementing the component in support of
POs confirms that it has become a stronger institution that is more oriented to delivering
results. The project’s communication strategy, which included regular briefings with the
media to provide information on the project, increased ASPRODEB’s visibility and
opportunities to build additional partnerships with donors interested in SLM. Similarly,
INP, having led development of the investment framework, is playing a leading role in
SLM and building wider partnerships. ISRA has amassed new experience, knowledge,
and proven technologies ready for dissemination in partnership with ANCAR, which has
fully integrated SLM in its action plan. WAAPP will build upon these achievements and
reinforce partnerships among these institutions through a competitive grant mechanism to
foster wider dissemination of SLM technologies with proven capacity to increase
agricultural productivity.




                                           19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory

65.     Quality at entry was satisfactorily ensured by the Bank team. The project was
designed well, with considerable involvement of many stakeholders, especially the
implementing agencies. Lessons from both phases of PSAOP were taken into account to
anticipate and avoid any institutional conflicts. This proactive and participatory approach
enabled each implementing agency to contribute to designing and articulating the project
component for which it was responsible. The approach also fostered a sound common
understanding and ownership of the project at entry. Another reason for rating quality at
entry as satisfactory is that the team correctly identified the key risks during preparation
and appraisal and adopted appropriate risk mitigation measures.

(b) Quality of Supervision
   Rating: Satisfactory

66.     The Bank team should be recognized for providing supervision in the form of
missions, meetings, and advice focused on delivering results. Joint implementation
support missions were organized with the government, and the participation of the
technical advisor of the Minister of Agriculture was particularly effective. During the
missions, extensive field visits were conducted to assess the technologies being tested in
farmers’ fields, to interact with POs and local authorities, to determine constraints, and to
address them in a timely way to deliver results on schedule. Although at first the
implementing agencies were not at full capacity, implementation gained momentum as a
result of steady guidance, useful recommendations, and the action plan. A six-month
extension of the project’s closing date enabled all activities to be completed. Fiduciary
and safeguard issues were also carefully and regularly supervised. Progressively, with the
task team’s support and guidance, the UCTF conformed to the World Bank procurement
guidelines and procedures; the UCTF and implementing agencies adhered to Bank
environmental and other applicable safeguard policies. Financial management improved,
and appropriate management tools were used.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

67.     The good quality at entry and effective implementation support justify the rating
of Satisfactory for overall Bank performance. Efforts by the Bank’s task team in
designing a sound project and supporting its implementation paid off, with the
achievement of all development outcomes and a high disbursement rate of 99.64 percent
at closing.




                                             20
5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

68.     The Government of Senegal supported the satisfactory achievement of project
outcomes in a number of important ways. The ministerial staff was involved in project
supervision and follow-up. In particular, the agricultural program manager of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and the president of the steering committee (the
technical advisor of the Minister of Agriculture) acted in a proactive manner to guarantee
the project’s success. All of the Bank implementation support missions were organized
jointly with them on behalf of the Government of Senegal. DAPSA participated in all
missions on behalf of the government. The President of Senegal visited one SLM
subproject site managed by female producers and praised their achievements.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

69.     The SLM Project was implemented by several agencies and a small coordinating
unit.

70.     Component A, Support to the Agricultural Research System, was implemented by
ISRA. The performance of this agency is rated Satisfactory. ISRA accounted for a large
share of the development outcomes achieved through the project. Despite the project’s
relatively short timeframe (particularly in light of its focus on SLM), three new SLM
technologies were tested and proved successful. The field demonstrations were
conclusive in terms of the technologies’ impacts on soil fertility improvement and
agricultural productivity.

71.     Component B, Strengthening Agricultural Advisory Services, was implemented
by ANCAR. Performance of this agency is rated Satisfactory. ANCAR made great
progress over the course of implementation and achieved nearly all of its assigned
outcomes. By contributing to the dissemination of proven SLM technologies and best
practices at the farm level, ANCAR helped to achieve the PDO and to reach the target
number of beneficiaries. Through its CARs in the field, ANCAR provided remarkable
cross-institutional/component support to ISRA, ASPRODEB, and INP during the
implementation of SLM subprojects and the field research (Annex 2).

72.     Component C, Support to Producer Organizations, was implemented by
ASPRODEB. The performance of ASPRODEB is rated Highly Satisfactory.
ASPRODEB’s effort was outstanding. It helped to implement 36 SLM subprojects
(compared to a target of 30), which addressed low soil fertility (13), water erosion (6),
soil salinity (5), wind erosion (3), and other issues, including the high consumption of
wood and charcoal for cooking (9). The unanimously positive feedback from producers
participating in the project recognized the ASPRODEB team’s high level of involvement
and dedication. The success of the SLM subprojects managed by POs was not guaranteed.
ASPRODEB contributed significantly to their success by mounting an awareness



                                           21
campaign on SLM, managing the implementation of the community demand-driven
approach, and strengthening the management capacity of the POs and CLCOP subproject
managers. Despite the difficulty in managing the subprojects, no delay was observed in
reporting to the UCTF. ASPRODEB also organized an effective communication program
that arranged visits by television and print journalists to cover the project’s achievements
and that featured participation in a number of television and radio programs. The result of
these efforts was that POs and CLCOPs were proud of their achievements, more
confident, better engaged, and more highly motivated to preserve their natural resources
(Annex 2).

73.    Component D, Support to Sectoral Coordination, was implemented by INP, which
supported the cross-coordination effort, and the UCTF, which was anchored in the
Minister of Agriculture. The performance of INP is rated Satisfactory. INP successfully
led development of the SIF through a cross-sectoral process based on wide consultation
and involvement of diverse stakeholders. INP also developed communication materials
and a knowledge-based platform to support SLM—the Information System on the SLM
Approach and Technologies (Système d’Information sur les Approches et Technique de
Gestion Durable des Terres, SENCAT).

74.    The performance of the UCTF in implementing Component D is also rated
Satisfactory. With an experienced and dedicated staff and sustained support from the
president of the steering committee (technical advisor of the Minister of Agriculture), the
UCTF coordinated and managed the project adequately, provided implementation
guidance to the respective implementing agencies, and engaged Bank supervision
missions in a substantive dialogue on project issues and how to deal with them. The
UCTF worked proactively with the Bank task team and followed up on its
recommendations. Its contribution to the project’s achievements was significant (Annex
2).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

75.   Given the ratings above, and considering the achievement of the development
outcome of the project, overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

76.     The beneficiaries’ commitment and ownership are critical to the success of any
project. While many SLM or broad environmental projects have not given local
communities responsibility for managing their natural resources, the community demand-
driven approach used in the SLM Project had remarkable success in stimulating high
levels of commitment, ownership, participation, and motivation on the part of the POs
implementing SLM subprojects—all of which have aided in achieving the development
outcomes and increase the likelihood that they will be sustained.

77.    The involvement of a multitude of agencies in a project can be successful if the
coordination is successful. The SLM Project succeeded owing to the commitment of the


                                             22
diverse institutions involved in its implementation (ISRA, ANCAR, ASPRODEB, INP,
POs). All sought to deliver the best results to meet their expected outcome indicators.
Strong involvement of technical staff at the ministry also contributed to the project’s
success.

78.     POs display high management ability when their capacity is strengthened. To a
large extent, the project’s success rested on the capacity-building program for POs in
financial management, accounting, and procurement. This training empowered the POs
and increased their confidence and pride in implementing their activities fruitfully.

79.     Using a community demand-driven approach can greatly improve the
ownership, success, and sustainability of agricultural development projects that provide
infrastructure or equipment. Like environmental projects, infrastructure and equipment
projects can fail to establish ownership among their beneficiaries, which can limit the
sustainability of results. Especially in irrigation projects, in which maintaining
infrastructure is challenging, the adoption of a community demand-driven approach that
gives all responsibility for managing irrigation schemes to POs and other users would
contribute considerably to positive outcomes. Such accountability motivates POs to
sustainably maintain the infrastructure or equipment as they would maintain their own
assets.

80.     Transparency and good governance are important at the grassroots (local
community) level. Usually, high-level institutions are the main target for efforts to
improve transparency and governance. Grassroots or local institutions such as POs
always lag behind such efforts, even though they are key actors in changing institutional
behaviors and increasing the transparency, efficiency, and impacts of development
projects. The SLM Project showed that through transparency and good governance, POs
convince the entire community to contribute to exceptional subproject achievements.

81.     Field visits during joint Bank and government implementation support missions
are crucial to put projects on track to achieve development outcomes. Field visits can
reveal a great deal to the participants, including the Bank task team. Interactions with the
primary beneficiaries can indicate the main challenges to address, provide an opportunity
to offer guidance to the implementing agencies, and spur a productive policy dialogue on
the best means to achieve the development objective. The project M&E unit also needs to
be well connected to the field for regular data collection.

82.     Much attention should be given to planning M&E to ensure that baseline
studies are completed on time with the required data. The experience in the SLM
Project points to the importance of giving greater attention to M&E planning, looking at
the baseline data requirements at entry, and determining how to collect the data so they
are available at the right time and can be used effectively.

83.    Gender-sensitive teams and strong female leadership among beneficiaries are
driving forces in building the gender dimension of a project. Sensitivity to gender issues
among members of the Bank task team (men and women), the project coordination unit,
and implementing agencies can focus attention on the gender dimensions of a project and



                                            23
maintain awareness of the need to address beneficiaries’ gender-specific needs. Initially
the SLM Project mostly targeted men, but the Bank task team helped to reorient the
implementing agencies to respond to the technology needs of men and women alike. The
result of this effort was that more than half of the project’s beneficiaries at closing were
women. Strong female leadership in POs and CLCOPs was significant in this respect.

84.      Well-trained focal points on environmental and other safeguard policies
encourage compliance with World Bank policies without creating the need to call upon
World Bank specialists. Selecting focal points from national institutions and
strengthening their capacity on environmental and other safeguards can be a good option
to handle such issues successfully. This option proved successful for the SLM Project,
and it is highly recommended as a good way to strengthen leadership in national
institutions for complying with safeguards.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Government’s ICR is presented in Annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers

None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Annex 6 summarizes results from the stakeholders’ workshop.




                                            24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                   Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                         Percentage of
               Components                        Estimate (USD        Estimate (USD
                                                                                          Appraisal
                                                    millions)            millions)
Component A,
                                                       0.60               0.60                100
Support to the Agricultural Research System
Component B,
                                                       0.70               0.71                101
Strengthening Agricultural Advisory Services
Component C,
                                                       2.80               2.83                101
Support to Producer Organizations
Component D,
                                                       0.70               0.69                 99
Support to Sectoral Coordination
                          Total Baseline Cost          4.80               4.78               99.64
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
                           Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD
                  Total Financing Required



      (b) Financing

                                                                               Actual/
                                                              Appraisal
                             6              Type of Co-                        Latest       Percentage
           Source of Funds                                    Estimate
                                             financing                        Estimate      of Appraisal
                                                               (US$ m)
                                                                              (US$ m)
Borrower                                                       20.00             13.86          69
IDA                                       Soft Loan            20.00             19.12          96
IFAD                                      Soft Loan              6.00             5.36          89
Local farmer organizations                In kind                1
Total co-financing                                             46.4              38.34          83
Global Environment Facility (GEF)         Grant                  4.80             4.78       99.64




6
 The SLM Project was blended with PSAOP2 (closed June 30, 2011) and co-financed by IDA, IFAD,
GEF, the Borrower, and local farmers’ organizations.


                                                      25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                        Table A2.1: Review of Achievement of PDO Indicators

PDO: To contribute to the reduction of land degradation and the improvement of ecosystem functions
and services in the target areas by adopting sustainable land management practices through the provision
of support to the Recipient’s research and agricultural a nd rural consultation system and to producer
organizations
                                             Baseline                       Actual            Level of
Project Outcome Indicators                                  Target
                                              Value                      Achievement        Achievement
                                                                                    7
Indicator 1: Increase percentage of           0.2%          0.23%           2.29%             Achieved
organic matter in the soil in target areas
Indicator 2: Increase arable land with         0%             20%             20%             Achieved
SLM practices in target areas                             (20,000 ha)     (20,066 ha)
Indicator 3: Number of producers                -              -            26,257            Achieved
                              8
beneficiaries (men and women)                                            (53% women)

The conclusions of an assessment of the achievement of intermediate performance indicators for
the four main components of SLM are as follows.

Component A: Support to the Agricultural Research System (Satisfactory). For this component,
implemented by ISRA, the intermediate outcome indicator was that at least three new
technologies would be tested and proven successful by the end of the project. This indicator was
fully achieved. The three technologies were: (i) building stone bunds and planting trees along
isohyets to reduce water and wind erosion; (ii) planting multipurpose and salt-tolerant trees to
restore and improve saline soils on agro-forestry-pastoral land; (iii) using ramial chipped wood
(an organic amendment) to improve soil fertility. The results of the field demonstration were
conclusive in terms of the technologies’ impact on soil fertility improvement and yield
(significant reduction of water erosion, recuperation of land, and improvement of soil
productivity). The participation of producers in the development and testing of these technologies
promises to encourage their adoption. The institutional support provided to ISRA allowed it to
play a key role in generating and transferring SLM technologies. ISRA also conducted the
biophysical characterization (mapping land degradation and classifying local flora and soils) and
socioeconomic characterization of the eight rural communities participating in the project. These
studies established baselines for assessing the impacts of the technologies generated or
disseminated by the project. This work had some shortcomings, however. The biophysical
characterization was done on time, but the soil analysis and socioeconomic study were delayed.
At some field sites, demonstrations were not monitored at regular intervals, so it was more
challenging to track and compare progress. Standard formats for collecting and reporting
technical data from the field demonstrations should have been developed and used to facilitate
wide dissemination of information about the successful technologies.


7
  The percentage of soil organic matter in the target areas increased from 1.82 percent to 2.29 percent (an
absolute increase of 0.47 percent and a relative increase of 25 percent). Although the soil organic matter
values originally specified in the PAD were 0.20 percent for the baseline and 0.23 percent for the target,
these values were averages derived for the groundnut basin in the 1990s. The biophysical study updated the
baseline soil organic matter value in the target communities to 1.82 percent.
8
  New core indicator added, so no target.


                                                     26
Component B: Strengthening Agricultural Advisory Services (Satisfactory). The intermediate
outcome indicator for this component was the integration of SLM activities into the annual work
plan of ANCAR in 8 Rural Councils within the project’s target areas by the end of the project.
This indicator was fully achieved. Overcoming the initial delay, ANCAR made strong progress,
fully achieving 19 of 20 sub intermediate outcome indicators in the 2011 annual work plan and
budget. The training by trainers was not fully completed (2 out of 3). For the subcomponent
related to strengthening agricultural and rural services in SLM, 238 service providers were
identified, classified, and included in a national database. Two SLM training sessions were
organized to increase technical capacity among ANCAR staff and SLM service providers. For the
subcomponent on promoting proven SLM techniques and practices at the farm level, 10 SLM
technical datasheets were validated and disseminated over the project intervention area; the
recommendations were related to tree nurseries, agro-forestry, live fencing, windbreaks, stone
bunds, ramial chipped wood, composting (one and three pits), phosphate amendment, and
fighting soil salinity. In total, 22 SLM technologies (with some variations) were demonstrated on
farmers’ fields, covering 382 hectares and including 1,357 producers, of whom 667 were women
(49 percent). With the support of SLM service providers, ANCAR also disseminated 15 SLM
technologies through a community demand-driven approach on an area of 438 hectares that
included 1,377 producers, of which 446 were women (32 percent). ANCAR also organized 16
exchange visits for farmers, in addition to two study tours in Niger and Burkina Faso for 20
ANCAR agents. The agency organized 18 training sessions on SLM technologies for 2,600
producers, of whom 735 were women (28 percent). The training was much appreciated by the
beneficiaries and helped the POs succeed in managing their SLM subprojects under Component
C. The material support provided to the agency (5 vehicles, 5 laptop and 5 desktop computers, 3
cameras, and 3 projectors) improved staff mobility and the quality of training, in turn enabling the
transfer of technologies to farmers.

The technical datasheets produced for the project urgently need to be updated and their quality
improved. For wider impact, ANCAR’s experience with SLM under the project should be scaled
up to the national level.

Component C - Support to Producer Organizations (Highly Satisfactory). For this component,
executed by ASPRODEB, the intermediate outcome indicator was that 30 subproject proposals
submitted by POs to implement SLM technologies would be implemented by the end of the
project. This target was exceeded; 36 SLM subprojects were successfully implemented. They
addressed low soil fertility (13), water erosion (6), soil salinity, (5) wind erosion (3), and other
issues, including the high consumption of wood and charcoal for cooking (9). The innovative
aspect of this component was that it used a community demand-driven approach that made POs
fully accountable for identifying their constraints, preparing SLM subprojects, and submitting
them for approval and financing to ASPRODEB. This approach fostered strong motivation,
commitment, and ownership of the subprojects among the POs and local authorities.

The POs had never managed such significant sums prior to the project (US$ 60,000 on average
per subproject). They took great pride in their successful and transparent management, which was
the product of their own aptitude and the training provided under the project. Each subproject
created a management committee; the 36 management committees (comprising 180 producers)
and 8 CARs from ANCAR attended three-day capacity-building sessions organized by
ASPRODEB, which covered financial management, disbursement, procurement, and accounting
(justification of expenditures and classification of invoices). The participants greatly appreciated
the training but expressed the wish that the training and course materials had been available in the




                                                27
local language. All POs managing subprojects regretted that the SLM Project was not extended to
the entire country through a second-phase.9

Under this same component, the CLCOPs organized several local workshops to increase
communities’ awareness of the subprojects and encourage their involvement, which had a high
payoff. Thanks to the commitment and awareness induced by the project, some communities
signed agreements to preserve their natural resources; the agreements included enforcement
measures. A total of 216 local authorities and PO leaders, of whom 30 percent were women,
participated in training on sectoral policy formulation and the local development plan.
Representatives of ASPRODEB, ANCAR, INP, ISRA, the National Agricultural Credit Agency
(Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole du Sénégal), POs, local authorities, and technical services
participated in four of five planned exchange visits to Italy, Niger, Burkina Faso, and Mali. The
POs particularly appreciated the opportunity and said that they had identified new technologies
and practices that they tested and adopted in their communities.

Field visits revealed the great diversity, progress, and success of the SLM technologies used in
the subprojects. The subprojects had a positive impact on soil fertility (soil organic matter rose by
25 percent) and extended the area available for cropping (19 hectares) through the restoration of
saline soils. The technologies also increased production (millet yields rose by 300 kilograms per
hectare; sorghum yields by 600 kilograms per hectare; and cowpea yields by 400 kilograms per
hectare). Women valued the charcoal-saving and biogas stoves (Box A2.1), which reduced the
gathering of fuelwood, giving women time to devote to more remunerative activities and
alleviating the pressure on natural resources.

                   Box A2.1: Women valued the charcoal-saving and biogas stoves
Among all of the SLM technologies diffused through the project, women particularly appreciated the
charcoal-saving stoves and biogas stoves. The important consideration with the biogas technology is to
prevent cross-contamination between the food to be cooked and the manure used to produce the
biogas.




This component of the project had other positive impacts on women, who said, for example, that
they had become better informed about their land rights and as a result could take action to obtain
land (see Box 2 in the main text). Women’s engagement in the project was effective and much
appreciated. For example, several women leaders of POs managed subprojects on SLM
technologies that responded to women’s specific needs, such as charcoal -saving stoves and fruit
tree nurseries.


9
 Beneficiaries’ achievements are documented in the following videos:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lxtyl3tj35Q (French version) and
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AelCFXW6d2s (English version).


                                                   28
Component D - Support to Sectoral Coordination (Satisfactory). This component supported (i)
INP’s implementation of cross-sectoral coordination for SLM and (ii) the UCTF’s coordination,
management, monitoring, and evaluating of project activities. The main intermediate outcome
indicator for this component was that a SIF for SLM would be approved by the end of the project.
This outcome was fully achieved. A final national workshop was organized to validate the SIF in
May 2012. The report was submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Equipment and a
brochure summarizing the main points was produced.

Cross-sectoral coordination improved because the project incorporated mechanisms for the
implementing agencies and other stakeholders to collaborate, particularly on developing the SIF.
In that process, INP worked with forestry, water management, and research institutions as well as
NGOs and others. To foster greater sharing of knowledge related to SLM across sectors and
institutions, INP developed SENCAT, a knowledge-based platform, and led a series of activities
to expand the knowledge base for SLM and familiarize participants with the resources available.
For example, INP organized workshops to test the World Overview of Conservation Approaches
and Technologies10 in the project areas, and INP staff received training in remote sensing at the
Ecological Monitoring Center (Centre de Suivi Écologique), participated in training in project
management, conducted information and awareness missions in other districts, visited the field to
learn about the project’s achievements, and made exchange visits to Niger and Mali. The INP
developed a targeted communication plan improved awareness and information sharing among
the project’s stakeholders related to SLM concepts, principles, technologies, and strategies in the
SIF. As part of this effort, it produced a number of flyers, brochures, and videos on SLM, in
addition to other products. Work must still be done to make SENCAT more widely available
through the internet. Strong ownership of the SIF by the ministries for agriculture and
environment is the next challenge that INP needs to address for the SIF to be used in the cross-
sectoral Mid-Term Expenditure Framework.

The UCTF satisfactorily managed the flow of information between project components and with
the Bank, maintained control of procurement and financial management, and managed M&E for
the project. The Ministry of Agriculture chaired the project steering committee. The committee
acquitted its mandated responsibilities to review the project’s strategic and budgetary orientation
through the annual work plan and budget of each implementing agency and the examination of
the implementation status reports. Ultimately, however, the implementation support missions
were the real instruments for monitoring and guiding the project, and the contribution of the
president of the steering committee, the technical advisor of the Minister of Agriculture, was
much appreciated.




10
     WOCAT is an established global network of soil and water conservation specialists contributing to SLM.


                                                     29
Annex 3. Financial and Economic Analysis

The purpose of this analysis was to determine whether sustainable improvements in smallholders’
agricultural production, productivity, and income, induced by the adoption of SLM technologies
under the project, were financially and economically profitable in relation to the investments
made.

Financial Analysis

The financial profitability of the project and of individual subprojects was determined based on
the nominal costs and benefits. The benefits are mainly the increase in production attributed to
the project, which was obtained by gathering data on the cropped area under SLM and yields for
each crop (groundnuts, millet, rice, cowpeas, cassava, and maize) and year. The value of the
additional production was calculated based on observed market prices for the commodities
produced.

Investment costs are estimated at CFAF 306,570,673 for the first year, CFAF 906,790,079 for
the second year, and CFAF 782,151,962 for the third year. They include costs related to training
and sensitizing producers about SLM techniques, institutional support to implement the SIF, and
technical assistance. Operating costs (obtained from DAPSA) included costs of land preparation,
seed, fertilizer, plant protection products, post-harvest labor, construction, and small farm
equipment. They were estimated at CFAF 30,000,988 for the first year, CFAF 1,050,713,686 for
the second year, and CFAF 1,398,109,607 for the third year.

Results of the financial analysis: Full project
Net cash income was obtained by determining the difference between total revenue and total costs.
A discount factor of 12 percent (based on the opportunity cost of capital) was used. The estimated
NPV is CFAF 569,612,494, with an IRR of 95 percent, indicating that the project was financially
profitable (Table A3.1).

                        Table A3.1: Financial profitability of the SLM Project
Item                                 2010                      2011                  2012
Investment costs                   326,570,673               906,790,079          782,151,962
Operating costs                     30,000,988             1,050,713,686         1,372,641,145
Total costs                        356,571,661             1,957,503,765         2,154,793,107
Total revenue                       41,687,136             1,957,652,340         3,349,882,394
Cash flow                         -314,884,525                   148,574         1,195,089,288
NPV                                                                               569,612,494
IRR                                                                                         95%

Results of the financial analysis: Subprojects

Technology: Demonstration of technology to reduce Striga helmonthica infestation. This
technology, used on demonstration plots totaling 20 hectares in 2011 and 18 hectares in 2012,
improves soil fertility and reduces Striga helmonthica infestations in millet, sorghum, and
cowpeas. On average, millet yields increased by 300 kilograms per hectare, sorghum by 600
kilograms per hectare, and cowpeas by 400 kilograms per hectare. Costs of the technology


                                                 30
essentially consist of inputs (CFAF 15,000 per hectare) and labor (CFAF 10,000 per hectare).
This subproject was financially viable, with an estimated NPV of CFAF 183,163 and an IRR of
30 percent (Table A3.2). The subproject helped to increase farm income and reduce poverty.

                Table A3.2: Financial analysis of subproject to control Striga helmonthica
Item                                          2010                   2011                  2012
Seed                                            0                     13,760                 10,760
Mineral fertilizer                              0                    550,000                450,000
Other inputs                                    0                    550,000                270,000
Labor                                           0                    220,000                450,000
Total cost                                      0                  1,333,760               1,180,760
Total revenue                                   0                  1,104,000               1,479,200
Cash flow                                       0                   -229,760                298,440
NPV                                                                                         183,163
IRR                                                                                             30%

Technology: Recovery of saline soil by using groundnut shells as a soil amendment. The
costs associated with implementing this subproject come from managing labor and acquiring
equipment. The cost per hectare is estimated at CFAF 25,000. The benefits are the increase in
area suitable for cropping (new cropland used) and reduced salinity. The community of Fimela
used the technology on 11 hectares in 2011 and 19 hectares in 2012, and it improved cropped area
and yields. The subproject was financially profitable, with an estimated NPV of CFAF 715,051
and an IRR of 50 percent (Table A3.3).

                     Table A3.3: Financial analysis of subproject to recover saline soil
Item                                          2010                    2011                    2012
Seed                                            0                     128,700                222,300
Fertilizer                                      0                     445,500                807,500
Light equipment                                 0                   4,950,000
Labor                                           0                     275,000                475,000
Total cost                                      0                   5,799,200               1,504,800
Total revenue                                   0                   3,162,500               5,462,500
Margin                                          0                  -2,636,700               3,957,700
NPV                                                                                          715,051
IRR                                                                                              50%

Technology: Assisted natural regeneration of soils and soil cover. This subproject to improve
soil fertility and soil cover was implemented in the communities of Dealy, Diamagadio, Fimela,
Latmingue, Méouane, Niakhar, Notto Diobass, and Touba Mosquée on more than 1,000 hectares
in 2011 and 2012. The practices involved had several advantages: They diversified income
sources, increased farm incomes through higher yields, increased wood production, improved
food security, and increased ground cover. The costs consisted primarily of the cost of seed for
reforestation and equipment (small tillers and machetes). The subproject was financially viable,
with an estimated NPV of CFAF 1,780,612 and an IRR of 62 percent (Table A3.4).




                                                     31
   Table A3.4: Financial analysis of subproject for assisted natural regeneration of soils and soil cover
Item                                       2010                       2011                     2012
Seed                                         0                    11,264,000                11,264,000
Equipment                                    0                       358,400
Fertilizer                                   0                     1,792,000                  1,792,000
Total cost                                   0                    13,414,400                13,056,000
Total revenue                                0                     8,448,000                21,120,000
Margin                                       0                    -4,966,400                  8,064,000
NPV                                                                                           1,780,612
IRR                                                                                                  62%

Technology: Application of phosphate fertilizer. This subproject to increase soil fertility was
implemented on more than 100 hectares in the communities of Dealy, Méouane, Niakhar, Notto
Diobass, and Touba Mosquée. The main costs were purchased inputs (estimated at CFAF 30,000
per hectare), labor (CFAF 15,000 per hectare), and transportation (CFAF 10,000 per hectare). The
application of phosphate increased yields and reduced termite and insect infestations of crops
such as groundnuts. Between 2011 and 2012, on average groundnut yields increased by 800
kilograms per hectare and millet yields by 700 kilograms per hectare. The subproject was
financially viable, with an estimated NPV of CFAF 388,190 and an IRR of 42 percent (Table
A3.5). The subproject increased beneficiaries’ incomes and contributed to poverty reduction.

                Table A3.5: Financial analysis of the subproject for phosphate fertilizer
Item                                       2010                    2011                       2012
Seed                                          0                   2,754,000                 1,336,500
Other inputs                                  0                   8,625,000                 1,980,000
Fertilizer                                    0                   3,128,000                 1,518,000
Transport                                     0                   1,150,000                  660,000
Labor                                         0                   1,725,000                  990,000
Total cost                                    0                  17,382,000                 6,484,500
Total revenue                                 0                  15,556,000                 9,075,000
Margin                                        0                  -1,826,000                 2,590,500
NPV                                                                                           388,190
IRR                                                                                              42%

Technology: Composting. This subproject to increase soil fertility through composting covered
about 200 hectares in 2011 and 2012 in the communities of Dealy, Méouane, Notto Diobass, and
Touba Mosquée. The costs per hectare are estimated at CFAF 30,000 for small equipment, CFAF
50,000 for inputs, CFAF 25,000 for labor, and CFAF 10,000 for transportation. Yields increased
on average by 450 kilograms per hectare for millet and 1,100 kilograms per hectare for
groundnuts. The subproject was financially viable, with an estimated NPV of CFAF 926,630 and
an IRR of 41 percent, which is well above the cost of financing investments, estimated at 12
percent (Table A3.6).




                                                    32
                        Table A3.6: Financial analysis of subproject for composting
Item                                       2010                     2011                   2012
Small equipment                              0                  3,240,000               3,480,000
Other inputs                                 0                  2,160,000               5,800,000
Labor                                        0                  2,700,000               2,900,000
Seed                                         0                  2,995,920               3,217,840
Fertilizer                                   0                  3,393,000                 406,000
Transport                                    0                  1,080,000               1,160,000
Total cost                                   0                 15,568,920              1,3340,000
Total revenue                                0                 11,097,000              19,650,400
Margin                                       0                  -4,471,920              6,310,400
NPV                                                                                       926,630
IRR                                                                                           41%

Technology: Introduction of improved stoves. This subproject, which provided improved
stoves to reduce the use of fuelwood and women’s domestic workload, involved 75 households in
the community of Méouane. The implementation of the subproject halved household
consumption of fuelwood, representing a savings of CFAF 7,500 per month and a 50 percent
reduction in time devoted to collecting wood. The subproject was financially viable, with an
estimated NPV of CFAF 1,197,916 and an IRR of 73 percent (Table A3.7).

                Table A3.7: Financial analysis of subproject for introducing improved stoves
Item                                               2010                 2011                2012
Equipment                                          0                5,250,000                      0
Revenue                                            0                1,350,000           6,750,000
Margin                                             0               -3,900,000           6,750,000
NPV                                                                                     1,197,916
IRR                                                                                           73%

Technology: Introduction of biodigester. This subproject used biodigesters to produce biogas
and organic matter. Eight biodigesters were set up during the SLM Project, including four in the
community of Méouane and four others in Notto Diobass. The technology increased the
purchasing power of households by removing expenses related to the purchase of wood valued at
CFAF 15,000 per month, gave women more time to engage in remunerative activities, and
improved the health of women and children by reducing exposure to smoke from wood and
charcoal fires. The subproject was financially viable, with an estimated NPV of CFAF 259,657
and an IRR of 50 percent (Table A3.8).




                                                    33
                Table A3.8: Financial analysis of subproject for introducing the biodigester
Item                                          2010                    2011                   2012
Equipment                                       0                  2,400,000                         0
Revenue                                         0                  1,440,000               1,440,000
Margin                                          0                   -960,000               1,440,000
NPV                                                                                         259,657
IRR                                                                                                50%

Technology: Planning to prevent water erosion. This subproject to reduce water erosion was
implemented in the communities of Diamagadio, Latmingue, and Notto Diobass. The most
important costs were labor and equipment. The subproject helped to increase arable land,
improved the mobility of people and goods (protected roads), and reduced the risk that production
would be lost. Despite these advantages, the financial analysis indicates that the subproject was
not profitable for the first two years, with an estimated negative NPV of CFAF 3,105,548. With a
time horizon of five years, however, the subproject becomes financially viable, with an estimated
NPV of CFAF 1,696,150 and an IRR of 51 percent (Table A3.9).

             Table A3.9: Financial analysis of subproject for planning to prevent water erosion
Item                        2010              2011              2012            2013            2014
Labor                        0             6,400,000                0                 0                  0
Equipment                                  9,600,000                0                 0                  0
Total cost                   0            16,000,000                0                 0                  0
Total revenue                0             5,174,400         7,761,600         8,043,840        7,239,456
Margin                       0           -10,825,600         7,761,600         8,043,840        7,239,456
NPV                                                                                             1,696,150
IRR                                                                                                  51%

Comparative analysis of the financial profitability of some subprojects
A comparative analysis shows that the most financially profitable subprojects were the
introduction of improved stoves, assisted natural regeneration, recovery of saline soils,
application of phosphate fertilizer, and composting (Table A3.10). In contrast, planning to
prevent water erosion would not become profitable as rapidly, although in the medium term, it
would have an IRR of 51 percent.

                Table A3.10: Comparative analysis of financial profitability of subprojects
Subprojects                                                  NPV (CFAF)                  IRR (%)
Striga helmonthica control                                      183,163                    30
Recovery of saline soils                                        715,051                    50
Assisted natural regeneration of soils and soil cover         1,780,612                    62
Phosphate fertilizer                                            388,190                    42
Composting                                                      926,630                    41
Introducing improved stoves                                   1,197,916                    73
Introducing biodigester                                         259,657                    50
Planning to prevent water erosion                             1,696,150                    51




                                                        34
Economic Analysis

The economic analysis considers the SLM Project’s costs and benefits for society as a whole. The
economic costs are primarily the investment and operating costs. As mentioned, in the first year
the nominal cost of capital was CFAF 306,570,673, and operating costs were CFAF 30,000,988.
It is assumed that the value added tax was paid on the purchase of certain goods and services;
subtracting the tax from the nominal costs yields the economic costs of CFAF 267,787,952 for
investment and CFAF 24,600,810 for operating costs.

The financial analysis assumes that land is provided for free, but the economic analysis uses the
reference price of land, which is the value of the marginal productivity of land in the absence of
the project. Given that the land produced no income before the project, the reference price is zero.
The economic analysis also takes the opportunity cost of labor into account—the loss incurred by
a firm when the workforce shifts from other sectors to the project. Given the glut of workers in
the project areas, the opportunity cost of labor is assumed to be zero.

The economic benefits of the project are increased timber production, reduced risks related to
natural disasters, improved access to basic social services and markets, increased crop yields,
reduced costs of agricultural inputs such as fertilizer, increased forage production, the elimination
of costs associated with buying fuelwood, and the time saved in cooking.

Insufficient data are available to estimate certain benefits, such as the increased value of timber or
the reduced risks related to natural disasters, but data on crop yields can be used to estimate some
of the project’s economic benefits. The value of the increased production of groundnuts, millet,
cowpeas, cassava, rice, and maize was calculated based on local market prices.

Results of the economic analysis

The implementation of the project was profitable from the point of view of society. Indeed,
during 2009–13, the economic rate of return is estimated at 170 percent and the NPV is estimated
at CFAF 875,709,733 (Table A3.11).

                        Table A3.11: Economic profitability of the SLM project
Item                                 2010                      2011                     2012
Investment                         267,787,952              743,567,865              641,364,609
Operating costs                     24,600,810            1,050,713,686             1,372,641,145
Total costs                        292,388,762            1,799,324,551             2,014,005,754
Total revenue                       43,876,413            1,968,708,590             3,366,338,644
Cash flow                         -248,512,349              169,384,039             1,352,332,891
NPV                                                                                  875,709,733
IRR                                                                                         170 %

The economic analysis of subprojects

Technology: Introduction of improved stoves. The economic costs associated with this
subproject consisted mainly of equipment, while the economic benefits consisted of the time
saved and increased purchasing power of households. The time savings were estimated at one


                                                 35
hour per household per day, equivalent to an hourly wage rate of CFAF 150. The increase in
purchasing power arises from the savings on purchasing fuelwood, which on the basis of project
documents are estimated to be CFAF 7,500 per month. The economic analysis shows that the
project was economically viable, with an estimated NPV exceeding CFAF 9,000,000 (Table
A3.12).

               Table A3.12: Economic analysis of the subproject for improved stoves
Item                             2010                       2011                       2012
Equipment                           0                       615,000                            0
Revenue                             0                     5,456,250                  10,856,250
Margin                              0                     4,841,250                  10,856,250
NPV                                                                                   9,644,531


Technology: Introduction of biodigesters. This subproject increased the purchasing power of
households by removing expenses related to the purchase of fuelwood (valued at CFAF 15,000
per month), increased the time available to engage in income-generating and other activities,
improved the health of women and children (by reducing exposure to smoke from cooking fires),
and reduced cooking time. The time savings are estimated at two hours per biodigester per day,
valued at the average hourly wage rate of CFAF 150. The analysis considered only the benefits
related to increased household purchasing power and increased time savings. The project was
economically profitable, with an estimated NPV surpassing CFAF 5,000,000 (Table A3.13).

                 Table A3.13: Economic analysis of the subproject for biodigesters
Item                                     2010                   2011                    2012
Equipment                                  0                  1,968,000                       0
Revenue                                    0                  5,600,000               5,600,000
Margin                                     0                  3,632,000               5,600,000
NPV                                                                                   5,762,963




                                                36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                           Responsibility/
             Names                                   Title                  Unit
                                                                                                Specialty
                                                                                                 Lending
 Matteo Marchisio                                  Consultant              AFTN1
 Elisabeth Mekonnen                            Program Assistant           LCC3C
 Manievel Sene                            Sr. Rural Development Spec.      AFTA2                     TTL
Supervision/ICR
 Amadou Alassane                            Sr. Agricultural Spec.        AFTA1
 Demba Balde                           Sr. Social Development Spec        AFTCS
 Taoufiq Bennouna                   Sr. Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec.     MNSEN
 Agadiou Dama                                    Consultant               AFTA1
 Anta Tall Diallo                            Program Assistant             AFCF1
 Saidou Diop                         Sr. Financial Management Spec.       AFTMW
 Sidy Diop                                 Sr. Procurement Spec.          AFTPW
 Edward Felix Dwumfour                    Sr. Environmental Spec.         AFTN1
 Maimouna Mbow Fam                   Sr. Financial Management Spec.       AFTMW
 Soulemane Fofana                      Sr. Rural Development Spec.        AFTA1
 Marie-Claudine Fundi                   Language Program Assistant        AFTA1
 Ronnie W. Hammad                          Sr. Operations Officer         ECSUW
 Denis Jean-Jacques Jordy                 Sr. Environmental Spec.         AFTN3
 Florence Laure Richard                  Jr. Professional Associate       AFTN1
 Fatou Fall Samba                     Financial Management Analyst        AFTMW
Jean-Philippe Tré                        Sr. Agricultural Economist       AFTA1                      TTL
Aifa Fatimata Ndoye Niane                 Agricultural Economist           AFTAI                     TTL


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                              US$ Thousands (including
                                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                                      7.55                       27.01
  FY09                                                     30.70                       98.46
                                 Total:                    38.25                      125.47
Supervision/ICR
  FY10                                                      2.58                        7.07
 FY11                                                      11.73                       48.81
 FY12                                                      12.09                       34.11
 FY13                                                      18.93                       33.51
                                 Total:                    45.33                      123.50




                                                      37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The beneficiary survey was part of the Government ICR (Annex 7).




                                             38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Although exceptional time constraints prevented the UCTF from organizing a stakeholder
workshop, 11 the UCTF organized a workshop with ANCAR to review key achievements and
challenges under the SLM Project and draw lessons and conclusions. Workshop participants
thoroughly examined the key activities related to the project: (i) demonstrating SLM technologies
in farmers’ fields; (ii) building awareness, providing information, and training producers in SLM
technologies and approaches; (iii) transferring and diffusing SLM technologies; (iv) conducting
exchange visits with other rural communities within Senegal and with other countries; and (v)
producing supporting materials and tools, such as technical recommendations and a technology
database. Figure A6.1 presents images that capture some of ANCAR’s activities to transfer SLM
technologies.
The participants concluded that the activities were conducted successfully and contributed to the
achievement of the PDO and outcome indicators. The workshop report highlighted that the
project had accumulated valuable experience and knowledge related to SLM, had changed
producers’ behavior in relation to the environment, heightened awareness of the environment’s
importance in producers’ daily lives, and fostered synergy among the actors involved in SLM.
ANCAR also highlighted some of the issues encountered in implementation, such as initial delays
in implementing activities in 2010, in finalizing terms of reference, and disbursement; the need
for more equipment to fully capture achievements (GPS, camera, camcorder, for example); the
heavy work agenda for agricultural and local advisors, who also had to support other components
of the project; insufficient synergy between ANCAR and ISRA in some areas; and the need for
better feedback from ANCAR headquarters to the zones. ANCAR also noted the need for follow-
up measures to reinforce the sustainability of the SLM achievements.
               Figure A6.1: Sustainable land management technologies transferred by ANCAR




      Biogas production, Ndiakhaté    Improved charcoal-saving stoves          Cowshed manure




                                                                              Exchange visit in a
              Composting                  Study tour, Burkina Faso      demonstration field (live fencing
                                                                          and phosphate application)


11
     The UCTF was closing two projects (SLM and WAAPP-1A) and starting another (WAAPP-2A).


                                                   39
 Sample taken to measure yield for
                                     Land preparation on plot amended    Groundnut plot amended with
  a plot with organic and chemical
                                          with phosphate, Matam                   compost
          soil amendments




                                                                          Live fencing combined with
                                      Nursery planted by an individual
       Community nursery                                                   cashew as a windbreak, in
                                             producer in Belly
                                                                                   Méouane




  Cassava with soil amendment,          Cassava in the same field but    Pond for livestock watering,
             Yemeu                   without the soil amendment, Yemeu           Wellou Bell


ASPRODEB organized an assessment of the community demand-driven process used in
implementing the SLM subprojects. The assessment, which was done by the participants
themselves, was led by the CLCOPs and Rural Councils with assistance from two undergraduate
students from the Ecole Supérieure d’Economie Appliquée. The POs, CLCOPs, and local
authorities expressed their appreciation for the community demand-driven approach and its
impacts. Figure A6.2 presents excerpts from the report on the assessment. Figure A6.3 presents
the natural resource protection agreement adopted by one of the project communities.

ASPRODEB followed up with a final assessment workshop with the POs and CLCOPs to
formulate the main conclusions and recommendations for the report. The subproject process
consisted of three main stages: (i) preparation, including an awareness campaign, evaluation of
land degradation, prioritization of subproject proposals at the local level, identification of POs to
manage subproject based on predefined criteria, and creation of a management committee; (ii)
development, review, and approval of the subprojects by ASPRODEB and definition of financing
conditions; and (iii) implementation, including institutional arrangements and support to local
expertise. For each of these three stages, the final assessment workshop analyzed the strengths,
constraints, and recommendations for sustainability of the subprojects.


                                                   40
Figure A6.2: Excerpts from the report on the beneficiaries’ assessment of ASPRODEB’s community
                          demand-driven approach for SLM subprojects




           Degraded
           areas    were           With
           recovered.




  Soil fertility was
  improved. My
                                                    Non-amended                 Amended
  production
  increased.




                                         The project beneficiaries stated that the yield were higher in
                                          plots amended with phosphate and organic manure than in
                                          non-amended plots in Touba Darou Rahmane Rural
                                          Community.
                                         Before 3 ha cropped in millet could not yield even 1 ton. But
                                          now the 3 ha yielded a production equivalent to that of 11 ha
                                          because of the organic fertilizer (Touba Boggo –Rural
                                          Community of Touba Mosquée)




                                               41
                        - During rainy season, access of cattle to pasture area is
Cattle space is           easier; pasture area is extended; no more divagation of
better protected.         cattle on farmers’ fields; no more loss of cattle because of
                          drowning, weeds coverage recovered thanks to the
                          cordons of stones (Keur Ndiangane – Rural Community of
                          Diamagadio).

                        - Proliferation of a new species of weed well appreciated by
                          cattle ‘’NGOKK’’ because of the reforestation and spread of
                          peanut residue (village of NDOSS MBADIOCK- Niakhar
                          Rural Community)




  Our living
  conditions
  were
  improved.




                         Before the project, we spent FCFA 300 (USD 0.6) per day
                          to buy firewood. Now with the use of improved stoves,
                          just FCFA 100 (USD 0.2) of firewood is enough per day, our
                          houses are cleaner, the fire risks with kids are lower
                          (Touba Belel and Touba Bogo area- Rural Community of
                          Touba Mosquée, Méouane area - Rural Community of
                          Méouane).

                         Freshwater is available for both people and cattle because
                          of the refection of the pond (Sanghai area- Rural
                          Community of Niakhar)




                                    42
Figure A6.3: Rural community convention for natural resource preservation




                                   43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

RESUME EXECUTIF

Le présent rapport est une évaluation finale du projet pilote SN GEF-GDT (Gestion Durable des
Terres) financé par un don du Fonds Mondial de l’Environnement (FEM) à travers la Banque
Mondiale. Son objectif principal est i) de lutter contre la dégradation des sols, ii) d’accroître et
soutenir la productivité agricole, et iii) de protéger et remettre en état les fonctions et services éco
systémiques au niveau de la zone agro-écologique du bassin arachidier grâce à une gestion
durable des terres serait intégrer dans toutes les politiques et stratégies de développement.

Rattaché au PSAOP 2, les activités proposées dans le cadre de ce projet s’articulent autour de ses
quatre (4) composantes que sont : i) appui au Système de Recherche Agro-sylvopastorale, ii)
Renforcement des Services de Conseil Agricole, iii) Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs et
iv) appui à la Coordination Sectorielle.

Doté d’une enveloppe de 4,900 millions de dollars US (2,450 milliards de FCFA), le projet, prévu
pour une durée de 30 mois, a connu une prolongation de six (6) mois et s’est déroulé de janvier
2010 à décembre 2012.

Composante A
Le renforcement de capacités de l’ISRA dans la mise en œuvre du projet a permis à l’Institut de
jouer son rôle de pourvoyeur de techniques et technologies à transférer en milieu rural. Les études
biophysiques réalisées dans les huit (8) CR ont permis une meilleure connaissance du milieu
physique (végétation, sol, facteurs de dégradation des terres) et humain (systèmes de production
et typologie des exploitations agricoles). Les tests sur les technologies de GDT menés dans
différents sites ont été concluants. Ils ont permis de mettre en œuvre trois technologies portant
sur : (i) la lutte contre l’érosion hydrique par la mise en place de cordons pierreux renforcés par la
plantation en quinconce de ligneux le long des cordons (association cordons pierreux et haies
vives isohypses), (ii) la récupération des terres salées grâce à la plantation d’espèces ligneuses à
usages multiples et tolérantes à la salinité (Melaleuca sp, Acacia seyal, Acacia tortilis, Acacia
senegal ; Acacia nilotica…) et (iii) l’amélioration de la fertilisation par le biais de l’utilisation des
bois et fragments de rameaux (BRF) avec des espèces comme Piliostigma reticulatum (Nguis
guis), Combretum glutinosum (Rate) et Guiera senegalensis (Nguer) .

La participation des producteurs dans la conduite des tests a contribué à renforcer leurs capacités
facilitant ainsi leur appropriation.

Par ailleurs, en rapport avec les autres partenaires, l’ISRA a conduit des études pédologiques et
de cartographies afin de renseigner les indicateurs du cadre de résultats du projet.

Pour une meilleure prise en compte des résultats dans le portefeuille de technologies de GDT à
diffuser, il est nécessaire d’élaborer des rapports détaillés sur la conduite des tests et
démonstrations (description de la situation de référence, modalités technique et organisationnelle
de mise en place etc…) et de procéder à leur large diffusion.

Composante B
Bien que n’ayant pas pu conduire d’activités la première année, l’ANCAR a rattrapé le gap et
atteint les objectifs qui lui ont été assignés à travers les indicateurs de performance. Des
répertoires des prestataires de services de CAR en GDT ont été élaborés au niveau des Directions



                                                   44
Zonales et consolidés en un répertoire national. Une dizaine de fiches techniques sur la GDT ont
été établies et validées au niveau national pour servir de support dans la vulgarisation des
technologies de GDT. A la suite du renforcement de capacités de son personnel technique,
l’ANCAR a réussi ainsi à intégrer des activités de GDT dans les programmes de CAR au niveau
des 8 CR cibles du projet. En effet au cours des deux années 2011 et 2012, des programmes de
démonstrations, diffusions/transferts et formations ont été déroulés par les CAR sur la GDT.
Globalement ces activités ont touché plus de 5.000 hommes et femmes des zones cibles du projet.
Elles ont permis au niveau de ces différentes zones, l’adoption de diverses technologies de GDT
permettant : (i) de lutter contre l’érosion hydrique et de récupérer des terres, (ii) de relever le
niveau de fertilité des sols et améliorer les productions agricoles, (iii) de réduire la pression sur
les ligneux avec l’introduction des foyers améliorés, (iv) d’atténuer l’effet néfaste du vent par des
mises en défens et des bois villageois.

L’ANCAR doit procéder à une capitalisation du processus et des résultats relatifs à l’élaboration
de fiches techniques afin de systématiser la GDT dans ses programmes de conseils et d’appui.

Composante C
La composante C est celle à qui il a été affecté plus de 50 % du financement. Elle comporte les
activités essentielles de financement des activités de GDT des OP ainsi que tout le processus de
socialisation et d’inclusion des acteurs du projet à travers les renforcements de capacités
(formations, voyages d’études et visites d’échange, séances d’animation, d’information, de
sensibilisation, etc.).

Du point de vue de la mise en œuvre des activités elle est arrivée à atteindre voir même dépasser
tous les indicateurs du cadre de résultats fixés. C’est le cas du nombre de sous projet financés qui
se situe à 36 sur un objectif fixé à 30, soit 120 %. La formation des élus et leaders d’OP a compté
214 personnes formées soit un taux de 107 %. Ils sont ainsi répartis : 80 élus dont 12 femmes
(22,6%), 120 responsables d’OP dont 53 femmes (26,5%) et des agents de CAR (6) et ASCOM
(8).

Les 36 sous projets ont été financés à la suite d’abord d’ateliers diagnostics réalisés de manière
participative par tous les acteurs à la base au sein du Comité Technique Local. Ensuite s’en est
suivit une priorisation des actions et enfin une formulation des sous projets tenant en compte des
actions identifiées. Une OP a été retenue pour porter le sous projet ainsi qu’un Comité de Gestion
(CG). Les membres du CG ont pu acquérir avec succès les techniques de gestion financière des
projets notamment des procédures de décaissement, de dépenses, de préparation des justificatifs
et de passation de marchés.

Les OP ont loué unanimement le caractère innovant de l’approche développée dans le projet.
Durant tout le processus de mise en œuvre, les acteurs à la base ont été entièrement
responsabilisés dans un cadre unitaire d’échanges, de partages et de synergie des actions avec le
CR, les autorités administratives et les services techniques.

Elles apprécient à leur juste valeur les formations reçues sur les techniques et technologies de
GDT, l’approche stratégique et la gestion financière, ainsi que diverses activités d’information, de
sensibilisation et de visites d’échanges. Toutes ces connaissances sont de nature à créer les
conditions d’une meilleure appropriation des outils, technologies pour un plaidoyer local et
national sur la GDT.




                                                 45
La réalisation de toutes ces actions avec beaucoup de succès a suscité auprès des OP un
engouement tel qu’ils appellent de tout leur vœux à une consolidation des acquis de la phase
pilote et à un passage rapide à l’échelle du Projet.

Composante Coordination Sectorielle
La mise en œuvre du projet pilote GDT suivant l’architecture du PSAOP2 a pas été un pari osé
mais avec un risque calculé du simple fait que le dispositif du PSAOP2 a fait ses preuves pendant
plus d’une décennie et s’est bonifié au fil du temps. Il n’y a que l’INP qui a rejoint le dispositif
avec un statut d’observateur pour assurer la coordination intersectorielle.

La mise en place et la validation du Cadre National d’Investissement Stratégique en GDT
(CNIS/GDT) était le seul indicateur de cette composante. Il a été entièrement satisfait par une
adoption au cours d’un atelier national. Afin d’en assurer la promotion auprès des Autorités
gouvernementales, une stratégie de communication est envisagée à travers la diffusion d’un film,
des brochures, des brèves, des plaquettes.

Le système d’informations sur les Approches et Techniques de GDT (SENCAT) est à ce jour en
cours de développement et ne pourra pas être éprouvé avant la fin du projet. Une fois
opérationnel, Il constituera un référentiel d’outils, d’approches et de technologies de mise en
place des actions de GDT.

Concernant l’UTCF, elle s’est renforcée d’un Spécialiste en Passation de Marchés et d’un
responsable technique et attend de l’être par un Responsable Administratif et Financier. Son
personnel ainsi que ceux des composantes ont pu bénéficier de renforcements de capacités qui
devraient se traduire dans la qualité des rapports fournis surtout sur des aspects d’analyse
qualitative.

S’agissant de la synergie d’actions entre les composantes, l’UTCF devrait renforcer son rôle
d’animation et d’impulsion de la dynamique de concertation et de partage.

En termes de suivi-évaluation, l’UCTF devrait définir, en relation avec les composantes, les
données qualitatives (genre, nombre de bénéficiaires directs et indirects, etc…) à renseigner
régulièrement pour amener plus de valeurs ajoutées aux rapports d’activités du projet.

L’objectif de développement (OD) du projet qui est de promouvoir l’adoption de pratiques de
Gestion Durable des Terres (GDT) et d’améliorer les fonctions et services éco -systémique dans
les zones prioritaires choisies dans le Bassin Arachidier a pu être satisfait. Les indicateurs de
résultats du projet ont pu être satisfaits à 100% et plus.

S’agissant des critères de performances, les analyses montrent que le projet est pertinent tout en
restant cohérent avec les objectifs et stratégies de développement de l’Etat. Du point de vue de
l’efficience et l’efficacité, le projet a été jugé performant dans la mesure où l’ensemble des
activités ont pu être déroulées et tous les indicateurs de résultats intermédiaires ont été satisfaits à
plus de 100% avec les ressources programmées.

Tous ces résultats militent pour un passage rapide du projet à l’échelle en consolidant les acquis
du projet pilote et en procédant à une couverture du territoire national pour combattre le
phénomène de dégradation des terres et jeter les bases d’un développement durable du pays.




                                                  46
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

ASPRODEB (Association Sénégalaise pour la Promotion du Développement à la Base). 2012.
"Projet de Gestion Durable des Terres, Composante Appui aux Organisations de Producteurs :
Synthèse des résultats de l’auto évaluation des projets des OP." Dakar.

Ministère de l’Agriculture et de l’Equipement Rural. 2012. "Rapport d’évaluation finale du Projet
Pilote de Gestion Durable des Terres." Dakar.

Banque Mondiale - Projet de Gestion Durable des Terres (GDT). 2013. "Evaluation économique
et financière."




                                               47
             18°W                                                     16°W                                                      14°W
                                                                                                                                                                                      SENEGAL
                                                                                                                                                                     SUSTAINABLE LAND
                                                                                                                     M A U R I T A N I A                            MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                           (SLM)
                       SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT REGIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT INTERVENTION AREAS
                                                                                                  SAINT -LOUIS                                                                       REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
             16°N                                     Saint-Louis                                                                                     16°N                           RURAL COMMUNITY BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                     DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                      Louga
                                                                                                                                                                                     REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                             Matam
                                                                                                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                            L       O        U       G       A
                                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                          Méouane                                                                               M A T A M                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                          Déaly

                       DAKAR
                                                                                 Touba                                                                                                                          GSDPM
                                    Thiès            D IO U RBEL                Mosquée                                                                                                                         Map Design Unit


                                  Notto
                    DAKAR                                        Diourbel
                                  THIÈS
                                                      Niakhar     FATICK
                                                Fatick
                                                                                                  KAFFRINE
                                                                      Kaolack
                                            Fimela                                                Kaffrine
                                                                      Latmingué
             14°N
                                                                                                                                       TAMBACOUNDA                                                MALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             14°N

                                                                    KAOLACK                       Nganda
                                                                                                                                        Tambacounda
                      ATLANTI C
                       OCEAN                           THE
                                                     GAMBIA
                                                                                                                         K O L D A
                                            ZIGU INCHO R                            SÉDHIOU                      Kolda                                 KÉDOUGOU
                                                                                   Sédhiou
                                                                Ziguinchor                                                                                              Kédougou


                                                                                                  GUINEA-BISSAU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 40370
MARCH 2012




                                                                                                                                                      GUINEA
             18°W                                                      16°W                                                     14°W                                        12°W
