CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 397 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 397 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1973, between THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "NTB" means the Nepal Telecommunications Board, established on
October 17, 1969 by Order under the Development Board Act, 1956, to succeed
to  the  assets, facilities  and  operations of the  Nepal Department of
Telecommunications of the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications of
the Borrower, and shall include the Corporation, if established, or any other
successor or successors thereto;
(b)   "Corporation" means the proposed telecommunications corporation
referred to in Section 4.04(b) and (c) of this Agreement, and any successor or
successors thereto;
(c)   "Prior Credit Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Telecommunications Project) No. 166 NEP between the Borrower and the
Association dated November 10, 1969; and
(d)   "Communications Act" means the Communications Corporation Act,
1972, of the Borrower, as amended as of December 31, 1972.


﻿I
4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million five hundred thousand dollars
($5,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published boy the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance wi , and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agrced between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1983, and ending March 15, 2023, each installment


﻿5
to and including the installment payable on March 15, 1993 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. NTB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and Ai conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. Within six months of the date of this Agreement, or such
other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall lend to NTB the proceeds of the Credit under a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to the Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, such agreement shall provide, inter alia, that NTB shall pay periodically to
the Borrower amounts representing (i) interest on the loan at the rate of seven
and one-quarter per cent (7-1/4%) per annum and (ii) amortization of the principal
amount of the loan over a term of twenty years, including a grace period of five
years, from the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, cause to be insured,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, NTB's properties and equipment and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NTB to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of NTB.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause NTB to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of NTB and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿7
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause NTB:
(a)   to operate NTB's business and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound business, public utility and financial practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and to operate, maintain, renew and repair
its plants, equipment and property in accordance with sound engineering and public
utility practices;
(b)   to take all action reasonably required to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of NTB's
business;
(c)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; and
(d)   not to sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties
or assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of its business, without
the consent of the Association.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not make, or permit to be made, prior to the completion of the Project,
capital expenditures (other than capital expenditures for the Project) for the
expansion of NTB's telecommunications facilities exceeding in the aggregate the
equivalent of $1,000,000.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) the
Borrower shall:
(i)         make available, or cause to be made available, to the Association
for comment any rules proposed to be issued by NTB;
(ii)        amend, suspend, or terminate the Order establishing NTB, or
any provision thereof, only with the prior approval of the
Association; provided that the prior approval of the Association
shall not be required for any amendment of the Order which
does not interfere with the efficient operation of NTB and does
not materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the
Project; and
(iii)       until the completion of the Project, transfer, or cause to be
transferred, funds from NTB to the Borrower only after the prior
submission of a financing plan which is acceptable to the
Association.


﻿8
(b)   in the event that the Borrower proposes to terminate the Order
establishing NTB, the Borrower shall:
(i)         simultaneously   establish  a  telecommunications Corporation
under an Order mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association pursuant to the Communications Act or such other
legislation which gives such Corporation, inter alia, such powers,
management, staff, resources, capital structure and financial
policies as are satisfactory to the Association and necessary to
carry out its responsibilities with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound administrative, engineering, public
utility and financial practices; and
(ii)        transfer, or cause to be transferred, to such Corporation the
properties and facilities of NTB, together with all assets and
liabilities relating thereto, including all existing rights, privileges
and obligations of NTB.
(c)   if the Corporation is established, the Borrower shall:
(i)         make available, or cause to be made available, to the Association
for  comment     any   rules  specifically  applicable  to  such
Corporation proposed to be issued by the Borrower and any
articles proposed to be adopted by such Corporation, pursuant
to the legislation establishing such Corporation; and
(ii)        until the completion of the Project, cause the Corporation to
declare or pay dividends only with the approval of the
Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause NTB to take such action as may
be necessary to continue to improve the performance and productivity of NTB's
employees.
Section 4.06, (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(i)          by July 16, 1973, adjust tariffs for telecommunications services
so as to increase NTB's gross operating revenues by at least 15%,
and thereafter ensure that tariffs for telecommunications services
are not reduced until the completion of the Project; and


﻿9
take, or cause to be taken from time to time, such action as
may be necessary (including, but without limitation to, adjusting
and maintaining tariffs for telecommunications services) to
provide revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return
on the average value of NTB's net fixed assets in operation of
at least 5% in fiscal years 1975-1979, and thereafter of at least
10% or such other annual rate of return as may be agreed upon
from time to time between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
net operating income of NTB for the fiscal year in question
to the average of the net depreciated value of NTB's fixed assets
in operation at the beginning and at the end of the year in
question;
(ii)         "Net operating income" shall mean the difference between
(A)   gross   operating   revenues    accruing   from   NTB's
telecommunications services; and
(B)   all operating costs of NTB's telecommunications services,
including administrative expenses, adequate maintenance
and provision for depreciation on all depreciable assets in
operation, computed in accordance with the straight-line
method at an average rate of not less than 5% -,er annum
of the gross value of such depreciable assets; and
(iii)        "Net depreciated value of NTB's fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross value of such assets less accumulated
depreciation, adjusted in accordance with methods agreed
between the Borrower and the Association to reflect changes
in current prices of such assets.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur, or permit to be incurred, any debt for the benefit of
NTB unless NTB's net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such
incurrence or for any later twelve-month period ending prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever net revenues are the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
incurred for the benefit of NTB, including the debt to be incurred.


﻿10
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term  "debt" means all debt incurred by or on behalf of
NTB, including debt assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower,
except debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and
maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year after
its incurrence;
(ii)       the term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (1) under a contract or loan agreement,
on the date such contract or loan agreement providing for such
debt is entered into and (2) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee is entered
into but shall be only counted to the extent that the underlying
debt is outstanding;
(iii)      the term "net revenues" means total revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of NTB's tariffs in effect at the time
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effeCL
during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and other expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service
requirements;
(iv)        the term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,
if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the


﻿11
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, of the administration, operations and financial condition of NTB and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its administrative subdivisions
and of any agency of the Borrower or of any such administrative subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of NTB and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform     each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿12
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the Communications Act
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the efficient
operation of the Corporation.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Amendment of Prior Credit Agreement
Section 8.01. Sections 4.06(b), 4.09, 4.12(a)(iii) and (b) and 4.13 of the
Prior Credit Agreement are hereby amended by deleting said Sections and
substituting therefor Sections 4.01(b), 4.03, 4.06(a)(ii) and (b) and 4.07(a) of this
Agreement respectively.
ARTICLE IX
Effective Date; Termination
Section 9.01. The date September 21, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿13
Section 9.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02
and 4.04 through 4.07 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE X
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 10.01. The Secretary to the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 10.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Ministry of Finance
Singha Durbar
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿14
in their respective names and to be delivered in the city of Kathmandu, the Kingdom
of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Yadu Nath Khanal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President,
Asia


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %Of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   (a)   Local telephone          1,320,000           100% of foreign
exchange switch-                            expenditures
ing equipment
(b)  Distribution net-        1,520,0             100% of foreign
works (including                            expenditures
cables, wires and
related accesso-
ries) and sub-
scribers' apparatus
11.  (a)   Long distance sys-       1,520,000           100% of foreign
tems (including                             expenditures
microwave and multi-
plex systems, UHF/
VHF and HF radio,
and line circuits)
(b)  Long diSLance              100,000           100% of foreign
switching                                   expenditures
equipment
1s. Telex, telegraph and            19000              100% of foreign
data equipment                                    expenditures
IV.  Vehicles, tools, test-         150,000            100% of foreign
ing, training and                                 expenditures
consultants
V.    Unallocated                    700,000
TOTAL        5,500,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a correspondii.g amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second phase (July 1974-July 1979) of a program to
modernize and expand NTB's telecommunications facilities.
The Project consists of:
Part A:     provision and installation of:
(i)         telephone exchange equipment and cable networks for about
9,900 automatic and about 700 manual subscriber connections;
and
(ii)       subscribers' apparatus, including PBXs.
Part B:     provision and installation of:
()          one international and four domestic HF radio station terminals;
(ii)        microwave systems to link    Kathmandu to Bhairawa and
Nepalganj;
(iii)       additional standby equipment for the microwave systems linking
Kathmandu to Birganj and Biratnagar;
(iv)        four UHF or VHF spur systems and six overhead line circuits;
(v)         additional multiplex equipment; and
(vi)        trunk switching equipment.
Part C:     provision and installation of:
(i)         telex equipment for about 80 subscriber connections;
(ii)        about 90 teleprinters for telex subscribers or public offices; and
(iii)       about 24 telegraph circuits.


﻿18
Part D:    Construction of a new headquarters building for NTB in Kathmandu
and the provision of vehicles, tools, testing and training equipment,
and consultant services.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 16, 1979.


﻿(                                      19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment or vehicles under paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for equipment or vehicles under paragraph
I of Schedule I to this Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$50,000, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The


﻿20
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not 'onsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, the
Borrower may:
(a)   for the purpose of standardization, procure extensions to existing
telecommunications facilities up to the equivalent of $500,000 by negotiation with
the original suppliers of such facilities, provided that the terms and conditions
of the contracts for the supply of such facilities so negotiated shall be satisfactory
to the Association; and
(b)   use its usual procurement procedures for the purchase of items of
equipment or spare parts costing less than the equivalent of $10,000 each, provided
that the total cost of such items included in this sub-paragraph does not exceed
a maximum amount of the equivalent of $50,000.


