RESTRICTED
Report No.    PA-117a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHILIPPINES
April Z6, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         -  P 6.4
P 1          -  US$0.16
P 1 million  -  US$156,250
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)           -  10,000 m  - 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2 -  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )-  0.39 sq mi - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)          -  2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)              -  0.26 gallons
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton X  0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ACA   -  Agricultural Credit Administration
APC   -  Agricultural Productivity Commission
BAI   -  Bureau of Animal Industry
DANR  -  Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources
DBP   -  Development Bank of the Philippines
NEC   -  National Economic Council
NFAC  -  National Food and Agricultural Council
PDBs  -  Private Development Banks
PNB   -  Philippine National Bank
DBP FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MAIN TEXT
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................                     i-iii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................                       1
II.    BACKGROUND  ..........................................                       2
A.    General  ........................................                     2
Climate ....................................                   2 
Population and Gross National Product ......                   2
B.    The Agricultural Sector  .......................                      3
Contribution  to the Economy ............. ..                  3
Livestock  .................................                   3
Animal Health  .............................                   4
Coconut  ...................................                   4
C.    Government Policies  ............................                     4
D.    Agricultural Services  ..........................                     5
Marketing  .................................                   5
Research, Extension and Education  ....              .....     5
Agricultural Credit  .......................                   6
III.   THE PROJECT                 .......................................           6
A.    General Description  ............................                     6
B.    Detailed Features  ..............................                     7
Project Areas  .............................                   7
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening
Farm   ....................................                   8
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Breeding/
Fattening Farm   ..........................                   8
Hill Beef Cattle Breeding Ranch  ....              .......     9
Pig Breeding/Fattening Farm   ....              ..........     9
Poultry-Broiler Farm   .....................                   9
Poultry-Layer Farm   .......................                   9
Slaughterhouse Development .................                   9
Technical Services  ........................                  10
C.    Cost Estimates  .................................                    11
D.    Financing  ......................................                    12
All Mission members, F. Knobel, M. McGarry, M. Walshe, R. Hanan (Bank), and
M. McEvoy (Livestock Consultant), contributed to this report.



2-
Page No.
E.  Procurement   ....................................  13
F.  Disbursements   ..................................  14
G.  Organization and Management .....     ...............   14
Development Bank of the Philippines .... ......   14
Financial Condition .....     ..................   15
Operating  Results   .........................  15
Loan  Defaults   .............................  15
Agricultural Department ....    ...............   16
H.  Lending Policies and Procedures ....    ............   16
I.  Accounts  and  Audit   ..............................  17
IV.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS 18
A.  Production .......................................  18
B.  Markets and Marketing .......    ....................  18
C.  Producer Benefits .........    .......................  19
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..................  21
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATION .................  21
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture in the Economy
Map - Climate Types
Chart - Monthly Precipitation According to Type of Climate
Table 1 - Agricultural Land Utilization
2.  Marketing and Prices
Table 1 - Livestock Population by Kind and by Region as of
January 1, 1969
Table 2 - Total Cost of Transport of Live Cattle to Manila
From Mindanao and the Visayas
Table 3 - Average Annual Retail Prices for Livestock Products
Per Kg in Manila
Table 4 - Shipping Costs for Hogs from Outlying Islands to
Manila
Table 5 - Summary of Costs in Shipping Live Hogs and Savings
Through Shipping Carcasses
Table 6 - Summary of Costs in Shipping Live Cattle and
Savings Through Shipping Carcasses
3.  Agricultural Credit
Table 1 - Loans Granted and Outstanding to Agriculture by
Financial Institutions, 1965-70



4.   Model - Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening - 5 ha
Table 1 - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Investment Projection
Table 3 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 4 - Financial Projections
5.   Model - Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening - 15 ha
Table 1 - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Investment Projectibn
Table 3 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 4 - Financial Projections
6.   Model - ilill Beef Cattle Breeding - 600 ha
Table 1 - lierd Projection
Table 2 - Investment Projection
Table 3 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 4 - Financial Projections
7.   Model - Pig Breeding/Fattening - 25 sows
Table 1 - Herd Projection
Table 2 - Investment Projection
Table 3 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 4 - Financial Projections
S.   Model - Broiler Production - 8,000 Broiler Capacity
Table 1 - Flock Projection
Table 2 - Investment Projection
Table 3 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 4 - Financial Projections
9.   Model - Egg Production - 6,000 Hen Capacity
Table 1 - Flock Projection
Table 2 - Investment Projection
Table 3 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 4 - Financial Projections
10. Model - Slaughterhouse Daily Capacity 20 Head of Cattle and 200 Head
of Pigs
Table 1 - Investment Projection
Table 2 - Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 3 - Financial Projections
Table 4 - Profit and Loss Projections
11.  Management and Technical Services - Investments Projections
12.  Management and Technical Services - Terms of References
13. Plhasing of the Lending Program
14. Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements



- 4 -
15. Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
Table 1 - Organization Chart
Table 2 - Members of the Board of Directors
Table 3 - Agricultural Department Staffing Positions
Table 4 - Condensed Annual Balance Sheet
Table 5 - Schedule of Installments on Regular Guarantee
Table 6 - Schedule of Payments on CCC and CWB Credit
Table 7 - Condensed Statement of Annual Earnings
Table 8 - Costs and Returns on Average Annual Loan Portfolio
and Investments
Table 9 - Projected Cash Flow, FY1971-72
Table tO- Past Due Loans and Loans in Litigation
Table 11- Annual Outstanding Loan Volume by Sector
Table 12- Financial Data on Private Development Banks
16. Projected Project Cash Flow
17. Financial Rates of Return
18.  Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Summary Economic Rate of Return Calculations
MAP
Project Areas



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the further development of
livestock in the Philippines, for which a Bank loan of US$7.5 million equi-
valent is proposed. The total cost of the Project, with a commitment period
of three years, is estimated at US$15.5 million, of which US$4.8 million,
or 31%, represents foreign exchange requirements. The inclusion of US$2.7
million for local costs would increase the Bank's participation in the
Project from the 31% foreign exchange component to nearly 50% of total Project
cost. This would be adequate to bring about the necessary improvements in
organization, lending criteria and procedures required under the Project.
ii.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the Philippine economy,
employing about 50% of the total labor force and producing about 35% of the
Net Domestic Product. Livestock is an important sub-sector of agriculture
contributing about 15% of agricultural production. Although the Government's
Four-year Development Plan, 1972 to 1975, aims toward achieving self-sufficiency
in rice, the Plan also supports greater diversification of agricultural pro-
duction through increased livestock and feed grain development. The Project
would help Government achieve this objective.
iii.      This would be the sixth Bank loan to the Philippines for agricul-
tural development, but it would be the first loan devoted entirely to
livestock development. The Second Rural Credit Project (Loan 607-PH made
in 1969) initially moved slowly but with general improvement of the economy,
following de facto devaluation of the peso early in 1970, and a reduction
in the amount of contribution by participating rural banks and farmers,
disbursements have increased significantly.
iv.       While large farms would not be excluded, the main aim of the
Project would be to finance:
(a)  development of about 1,450 semi-commercial small to
medium size pig, poultry, and integrated coconut/beef
cattle farms;
(b)  development of about 25 hill beef cattle breeding
ranches that are an important source of feeder cattle
for backyard farmers;
(c)  constructing and equipping three small slaughterhouses;
and
(d)  provision of technical services.



- ii -
The Project would emphasize the provision of technical services to partici-
pating farmers. This would be particularly important since the aim of the
Project would be to finance a relatively large number of small to medium-
size producers who would require intensive supervision and guidance to
successfully carry out their investment programs. Because a less expensive,
better quality pig and poultry ration is an important objective, technical
services would emphasize full use of the wide range of cereal by-products
available locally. Technical services would also include two consultants,
one to advise on a pig breeding improvement scheme, and the other to advise
on utilization of low cost molasses and sugarcane tops in beef cattle
production.
v.        Government, as Borrower, would on-lend on the same terms the Bank
loan to the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), which would execute
all aspects of the Project. DBP, a large Government Bank with wide experience
in agricultural lending, would grant loans directly to beneficiaries and,
in some cases, would on-lend Bank funds to Private Development Banks (PDBs)
which also would grant loans made by them under the Project. On average,
beneficiaries would contribute about 16% of investment requirements, DBP/PDBs
about 36% and the Bank 48%. The interest rate would be 12% per annum on
medium- and long-term loans of 5 to 11 years.
vi.       Turnkey contracts, amounting to about US$600 thousand, 4% of
Project cost, for construction and equipping three slaughterhouses would
be subject to international competitive bidding. Goods for on-farm investments
and incremental working capital inputs amounting to about US$13.9 million,
90% of Project costs, would be acquired through existing commercial channels
because of the diversity, small size of individual purchases, which would
leave the channel and source of supplies to the choice of the individual
farmers. The Philippines has a good network of dealers in agricultural
inputs and competition is keen. The balance of investment costs of US$1
million, 6% of Project cost, constitutes the estimate for technical services.
vii.      The estimated financial rates of return to the producers' incre-
mental investments would range from 19% to 47%. The rate of return to the
Philippine economy is estimated at about 36%. The Project is expected to
provide significant increases in the production of eggs, broilers, pork, and
beef and a small increase in coconut production. New investments for poultry
and pork production constitute about 70% of total Project Cost. About 1,700
new jobs would be created in rural areas, providing work for people who
previously were either unemployed or greatly underemployed, thus benefitting
about 10,000 people. Additionally, some 1,500 subborrowers, with about
8,500 dependents, would benefit directly from the Project.
viii.     The Project is not without constraint.  The attainment of technical
production objectives at the farm level is dependent in particular on the
reliability of high quality feed supplies and the quality and effectiveness
of the technical services expected to guide small Filipino producers in the
adoption of new, commercially-oriented production techniques.



- iii -
ix.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.5 million, for a
term of 14 years including a grace period of six and a half years. Govern-
ment would be the Borrower and would bear the foreign exchange risk.






PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan to help
finance a livestock development project to increase the meat supply for the
domestic market. The proposed loan would be the sixth for agricultural
development in the Philippines 1/, but the first exclusively for developing
the livestock sub-sector. Government would be the Borrower and the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines (DBP) would be executing agency. DBP is a
multipurpose development bank with a direct loan portfolio of about US$400
million. Its agricultural portfolio is only about 25% of the total and
Project lending would be roughly 3% of its total loan portfolio. It has
not been possible to appraise the DBP in all its operations, but the
Agricultural Department constitutes a satisfactory on-lending channel for
purposes of this project.
1.02      Generally, the Bank's experience with other agricultural projects
in the Philippines has been satisfactory. About US$400,000 remains to be
disbursed under Loan 393-PH (Agricultural Education); Loan 434-PH (First
Rural Credit Project) has been fully disbursed. After an initial slow start,
Loan 607-PH (Second Rural Credit Project) is moving ahead. Recently, the
Bank concurred with the Central Bank (Borrower) that an expected 10% contri-
bution from participating rural banks may be contributed by the Central
Bank, or other Government sources, and that the contribution from participating
farmers may be 10% on an average rather than specifically so for each
investment program. Implementation under Loan 637-PH (Upper Pampanga River
Project) has been very satisfactory. Loan 720-PH (Rice Processing and
Storage Facilities Project) is just getting underway. It, too, is adminis-
tered by DBP.
1.03      The Project would include on-farm development of about 400
integrated coconut/beef cattle farms on Mindanao Island, 25 hill beef ranches
on Mindoro and Masbate Islands, 600 pig farms in the Central Luzon,
Southern Tagalog and South Mindanao Regions, 450 poultry farms in the
Central Luzon and Southern Tagalog Regions, and three slaughterhouses on
1/   393-PH, 1964, US$6 million for agricultural education, UPAC (Los Banos).
432-PH, 1965, US$5 million for first rural credit project for small
farmers.
607-PH, 1969, US$12.5 million for second rural credit project for small
farmers.
637-PH, 1970, US$34 million for irrigation project (Pampanga river).
720-PH, 1971, US$14.3 million for rice processing and storage facilities.



Mindanao Island. In addition, the Project would provide for technical
services to all sub-borrowers and for employment of two short-term consultants.
1.04      The Project was prepared with the help of the FAO//IBRD Cooperative
Program, which sent two missions to the Philippines, one in April/May 1969
and the second in October/November 1970. To achieve the greatest impact
on the rural economy, and in agreement with Government, the thrust of the
Project was changed from supporting the further development of large product-
ion enterprises to the development of semi-commercial medium-size to smaller
production enterprises. The bulk of livestock production in the Philippines
still comes from the latter group and backyard producers who characteristically
have their main resources in agriculture whereas the larger producers may
have their major resources in other sectors such as industry and commerce.
Project areas were also modified, commercial poultry hatcheries dropped from
the Project as the present output is sufficient for the demand, and three
small regional slaughterhouses were added.
1.05      This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission, composed
of Messrs. F. Knobel, M. McGarry, M. Walshe, R. Hanan (Bank) and M. McEvoy
(Livestock Consultant), which visited the Philippines in June/July 1971.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of the Philippines, with an area of about 30 million
ha, is situated in the Tropics of East Asia between latitude 40230 and
21'25'N. The archipelago extends over 1,600 km from north to south and
comprises more than 7,000 islands, of which 11 account for about 95% of the
total land area.
Climate
2.02      High temperature, humidity and rainfall characterize the climate.
Mean temperatures range between 210C in January to 19°C in May. Rainfall,
the most important climatic variable, ranges from 1,000 mm in the south to
5,500 mm in the northern highlands of Luzon. Annual rainfall is fairly
uniform with an average variation between years of about 14%. However,
pronounced dry seasons do occur. Climatically, the Philippines has high
potential for crop and forage production. The environment is well suited to
pig and poultry production, and beef cattle also adapt well to it.
Population and Gross National Product
2.03      The population of the Philippines, at just over 37 million, is
increasing at about 3.2% per year. Gross National Product (GNP) in real



- 3 -
terms increased at an average rate of about 6% during the past decade.
Per capita GNP is estimated at about US$165. 1/ The rate of inflation in
1971 was about 17%.
B. The A&ricultural Sector
Contribution to the Economy
2.04      Agriculture employs about half of the total labor force and,
including fishery and forestry, produces about 35% of the Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). It contributes 70% to 80% of the country's export earnings
- almost entirely from forest, coconut products and sugar.  On the other
hand, imports of agricultural origin in 1970 were only 10% of total imports.
The main agricultural imports are cereals, dairy products, meat and fish.
Imports of meat and meat products dropped sharply in value from US$9
million in 1969 to about US$5 million in 1970 due to import credit restrictions
and higher prices paid by importers after the peso was floated in February
1970. Combined meat and fish products account for half of all food imports
in the Philippines. A series of devastating typhoons in 1970 slowed down
agricultural growth from 6.8% in 1969 to 3.1% in 1970, but improved to about
5% in 1971. While the agricultural sector in the past has grown more rapidly
than GDP, largely due to the result of the breakthrough in high yielding
rice varieties, future growth of agriculture (1972 to 1975) is estimated
at 5% annually. 2/ Of the total agricultural contribution of about 35% to
GDP, food crops contributed 10%; livestock and poultry, 6%; commercial
export crops, 6%; forestry, 6%; fisheries, 4%; and miscellaneous, 4%;
(Annex 1)
Livestock
2.05      Beef cattle number more than 2 million head, largely small native
types, with concentrations in Southern and Northern Mindanao Island and
Central Luzon. Most beef cattle are found in ranching areas but the grazing
of beef cattle under coconuts is assuming increasing importance in recent
years, particularly in Mindanao. Carabaos (water buffalo), which number
nearly 5 million head, are found all over the country with the highest
concentrations in the rice producing areas where they are used extensively
as draft animals.
1/   Lower than the estimate of $210 in the World Bank Atlas of 1971 due
largely to devaluation of the peso of about 40% in February 1970.
2/   The corresponding estimate for GDP according to the latest IBRD
Economic Mission (October 1971) is 6.3%.



- 4 -
2.06      Government estimates of the pig population in 1971 are around
12.5 million head, and the number slaughtered is thought to range from 6.3
to 8.8 million annually. Pigs are found throughout the Philippines and
backyard units contribute about 90% of the pig meat production. The
poultry population is estimated at almost 100 million with commercial
production heavily concentrated around Manila. Philippine farmers are
relatively efficient at pig and poultry production. Their greatest problem,
however, is the variable and generally inferior quality, and high prices
of the rations available commercially.
Animal Health
2.07      Animal health problems are not a serious impediment to production.
Although virtually all the common diseases of livestock are present, control
measures, including vaccines and prophylactic measures, are available to
the Filipino producer and are readily used by him.
Coconut
2.08      The coconut industry occupies a leading position in the economy.
It provides a source of livelihood for almost 440,000 families or about 2.6
million people. As of 1970, about 21% or about 1.9 million ha of cultivated
land was planted to coconut trees, and coconut products registered 20% of
total export earnings in 1970. Approximately 90% of the area planted to
coconuts is accounted for by holdings of 25 ha or less. The potential is
great for developing integrated coconut/beef cattle production, with con-
sequent large increases in copra and beef output.
C. Government Policies
2.09      A major objective of Government's recently revised Four-Year
Development Plan, 1972 to 75, is to continue the spread of high-yielding
rice varieties in order to make the Philippines self-sufficient in this
important cereal. Priorities also will be given to (i) expansion of
livestock and poultry as import substitution; (ii) crop diversification to
feed grains, i.e., yellow corn, sorghum, soybeans, to support the production
of livestock and poultry; and (c) the development of fisheries both for
meeting domestic demand and exports.
2.10      In FY 1968-69, rice received 49% of the total new lending to
agriculture; corn, 4%; and livestock and poultry, about 15%. The intention
of the Plan is to increase the amount and the share of agricultural lending
devoted to feed grains and livestock production. The Project would make a
significant impact toward achievement of this goal.



- 5 -
D. Agricultural Services
Marketing
2.11      Marketing of agricultural commodities is almost entirely in the
hands of private individuals. Though the system is characterized by many
middlemen, it still functions relatively efficiently.
2.12      Per capita meat consumption is about 14 kg/annum from the follow-
ing main sources: pig meat, 9 kg; poultry meat, 2 kg; carabeef (carabao
meat), 2 kg; and beef, 1 kg. Egg consumption is estimated at about 2.8 kg/
capita/annum. The level of meat consumption is somewhat above several other
countries with similar per capita GNP. 1/
2.13      Most cattle and hogs are shipped live to the Greater Manila area
since the city of Manila requires that all meat sold there must be slaughtered
there. However, most of the supermarkets are located in the suburbs outside
the city limits and are, therefore, not subject to this regulation. Meat
sold outside of Manila accounts for about 75% of total meat consumed in the
Greater Manila area. Great loss in weight occurs in shipping live animals
the approximate 1,500 km from parts of Mindanao to Manila, and locating
slaughterhouses near the production centers would appear to be the next
logical step. The Government has recently established the General Manila
Terminal Food Market (GMTFM) as a parastatal body to increase competition in
marketing and hopefully to lower marketing margins (Annex 2).
Research, Extension and Education
2.14      Agricultural research, veterinary and extension services are pro-
vided by the Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources (DANR) through
the Bureaus of: Animal Industry (BAI), Plant Industry, and Soils. Exten-
sion is mainly the function of the Agricultural Productivity Commission
(APC) and, to some extent, the National Food and Agricultural Council (NFAC).
The College of Agriculture, University of the Philippines at Los Banos,
conducts research on animal production and limited extension work to encour-
age the adoption of new pasture and animal production techniques at farm
level. The College of Veterinary Medicine, University of the Philippines
at Quezon City, conducts research on animal diseases, provides diagnostic
laboratory services and limited field extension services. BAI is responsible
for the development of the livestock industry and shares with APC responsi-
bility for livestock extension and training. Although the number of person-
nel employed is large and office facilities are well developed, the quality
and effectiveness of the service is weak.
1/  Korea 5.5 kg; Liberia 8.8 kg; Tunisia 12 kg.



- 6 -
2.15      The quality of research work carried out by the Animal Husbandry
Department and the Veterinary College is fair, but there is need for more
clearly defined objectives in animal research to help solve the most impor-
tant problems facing the industry. Greater emphasis for example should be
focused on accumulating input/output data for the great variety of forage
and concentrate feeds available locally when these are used in livestock
production. Information on the most efficient means of developing rangelands
is similarly needed. A proposed UNDP technical assistance project would be
timely to the Project since it would concentrate on developing such inform-
ation.
Agricultural Credit
2.16      The most important sources of institutional credit for agriculture
are financial institutions either fully or partially capitalized by Govern-
ment. These are the DBP, the Philippine National Bank (PNB), and the Rural
Banks. As a group, they account for about 65% of institutional credit
granted annually to the sector, the other 35% coming from the private commer-
cial banks. PNB, with its extensive countrywide system, is the most import-
ant bank, and concentrates on making short-term loans to commercial size
producers. Credit from the private commercial banks, almost entirely for
agro-industry and trade, is generally short-term (Annex 3).
2.17      The small producers are served by the Rural Banks (500); Private
Development Banks (PDBs), which number 29; the Agricultural Credit Adminis-
tration (ACA); and, to some extent, the DBP system. The Central Bank plays an
important role since it rediscounts agricultural paper, with maturities up to
270 days at variable interest rates. For instance, regardless of production
use, the rural banks receive a preferential reciscount rate of 2% and 3%;
all credit used for production of high priority crops (rice and corn) can be
rediscounted at 4%, and commercial paper for loans and advances at 8%. Ex-
cept for ACA, which by law is limited to 8% interest rates to the ultimate
beneficiary, the interest rates in the agricultural sector, at 12-14% per
annum, are generally competitive with rates prevailing elsewhere in the
economy. DBP increased its interest rates in August 1970 from about 9% to
12%.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The objectives of the Project are:
(a) to assist the Philippines to meet, from local resources,
a larger share of the domestic demand for livestock and
poultry products;



(b) to improve the effectiveness of DBP's agricultural
credit services; and
(c) to demonstrate that relatively small producers can pro-
duce livestock products efficiently in the Philippines.
The main components of the Project would be for pig and poultry development,
constituting about 70% of the total. The components are summarized as
follows:
Number of   Project Cost        % Total
Components                 Loans    (US$ Millions)  Project Cost
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle
Fattening                            200          0.3                2
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle
Breeding/Fattening                   200          1.1                7
Hill Beef Cattle Breeding                   25          0.8                5
Pig Breeding/Fattening                     600          5.6               36
Poultry-Broilers                           250          2.1               14
Poultry-Layers                             200          3.1               20
Slaughterhouses                              3          1.5               10
Technical Services                          -           1.0                6
Total              1 478         15.5              100
B.  Detailed Features
Project Areas
3.02      Project areas in which farm and ranch development would be carried
out and the slaughterhouses constructed would be mainly as follows:
(a) Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Farms - South Mindanao Region
covering the coconut belt around the Davao Gulf in the provinces
of Davao City, Davao del Sur, Davao del Norte and Davao Oriental;
and in the North Mindanao Region, Misamls Oriental province.
These regions are the most important coconut producing areas in
the Philippines, and beef breeding/fattening operations, using
cultivated pastures under the trees, have been successfully
operated here by large producers for many years (90% of the
national coconut plantings are in holdings of less than 25 ha -
para 2.08).
(b) Hill Beef Cattle Breeding Ranches - Mindoro Island of Southern
Tagalog Region and Masbate Island of Bicol Region are important
sources of weaners for fattening in backyards by small farmers,
principally in Luzon. Also these islands are free of conflict
with alternative land uses for cropping as was found in parts of



- 8 -
Mindanao and Cagayan Valley Regions where a similar type of
development was proposed.
(c) Pig Breeding/Fattening Farms - Central Luzon and Southern Tagalog
Regions, of which Manila is the hub, covering the provinces of
Cavite, Batangas, Laguna, Rizal, Bulacan, Pampanga, Tarlac,
Pangasinan, and Nueva Ecija; and in South Mindanao Region,
Southern Cotabato province. The area is densely populated,
a traditional rice and corn cropping and pig producing area,
and is close to the main market, Manila. Southern Cotabato
is a major producer of feed grains and also has a good
tradition of pig production.
(d) Poultry-Broiler and Egg Farms - the Project area would be the
same as for pig farms but excluding Southern Cotabato. Here,
too, Manila, or what is commonly referred to as the Greater
Manila Area, being the traditional and most important product-
ion area which also is close to market and sources of inputs,
e.g., concentrate feed.
(e) Slaughterhouses - on Mindanao Island located one each in the
areas of Davao, General Santos and Cagayan de Oro.
(f) Later as the Project progresses, and if it becomes administratively
feasible, consideration may be given to inclusion of other
regions such as Visayas which is becoming increasingly signifi-
cant for pig and feed grains production. Any modification of
Project areas would be subject to review and recommendation of
a supervison mission which would evaluate the technical and
economic feasibility of inclusion under the Project.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that execution of the Project
would be carried out as identified above.
Farm/Ranch Development
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening Farm
3.03      The Project would concentrate on integrated coconut/beef cattle
fattening operations on about 200 farms of less than 10 ha. Breeding would
not be encouraged since the units are too small. Average investment per
farm of 5 ha would average about US$1,300 mainly for drainage, coconut
cultivation and legume establishment, copra drier, and initial feeder steer
purchase. Development would be spread over three years (Annex 4).
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening Farm
3.04      The Project would help to develop about 200 integrated coconut/beef
cattle breeding/fattening operations on farms between 10 and 50 ha. Breeding
would be encouraged so as to enable the scarce feeder cattle to go to the
farms of less than 10 ha (para 3.03). Total investment per farm of 15 ha



- 9 -
would average about US$5,700 mainly for fencing, corrals, water, pasture
establishment and breeding stock purchases. Development would take about
three years (Annex 5).
Hill Beef Cattle Breeding Ranch
3.05      Development of about 25 hill beef cattle breeding ranches would
be financed by the Project. Total investment per ranch, beginning with an
initial breeding herd of 200 cows would average approximately US$31,000
mainly for fencing, water, pasture improvement, corrals, and livestock
purchase. This development would increase the supply of weaners to Southern
Tagalog Region and other parts of Luzon for fattening in backyards by small
farmers where they would supply a much needed source of additional income.
Development would be completed in four years (Annex 6).
Pig Breeding/Fattening Farm
3.06      About 600 pig farms would be developed.  Average investment pey
farm would be about US$9,400 mainly for buildings, breeding stock purchase,
and incremental working capital. The typical borrower would have about 10
sows before development, and would increase these during development to
about 25. It is estimated that 98% of national pig production comes from
units with less than 50 head, so the Project would concentrate on the typical
producer, who also is small-scale. New investments would be made over a
two year period.
Poultry-Broiler Farm
3.07      The Project would finance development of about 250 farms.  Devel-
opment of a farm would take one year. Average investment per farm (to
increase capacity per batch by 4,000 broilers) would be about US$8,300
mainly to finance buildings, equipment, and incremental working capital.
It is expected that sub-borrowers would have some experience with broiler
production before development, and emphasis would be placed on further
developing producers who have from 1,000 to 5,000 bird capacity per batch
(Annex 8).
Poultry-Layer Farm
3.08      About 200 farms would be developed.  As was also true for the pig
and broiler producers, the typical sub-borrower would be a small rice and/or
corn farmer. Average investment per farm (to increase capacity by 4,000
layers) would be about US$15,400 mainly to finance buildings and equipment,
and incremental working capital. Emphasis would be placed on expanding
existing small producers, and development would take one year (Annex 9).
Slaughterhouse Development
3.09      Studies carried out in the Philippines, at Government's request,
demonstrate the financial and economic feasibility of building slaughterhouses



- 10 -
in several cities on Mindanao Island, and transporting the meat by ship to
Manila. The Project includes a component for the construction of three
small slaughterhouses on Mindanao Island with an average investment of about
US$500,000 each. This investment includes about US$275,000 for incremental
working capital; the other US$225,000 would cover fixed investment items,
mainly for site purchase, buildings, refrigeration equipment, slaughterhouse
equipment, vehicles, water system, and a rendering and drying plant. Capa-
city per plant would be about 20 head of cattle and 200 pigs per day, a size
dictated by the availability of animals. It is envisaged that each slaughter-
house would be controlled by a producer association or society and that
DBP or Government would take a minority stock interest.  Animals would be
purchased on a cash basis, slaughtered, chilled, and shipped by boat to
Manila, probably once or twice weekly, and marketed directly to supermarkets,
who are prepared to sign a firm contract with a slaughterhouse for delivery
of all its output of beef and pork. Some by-products would be sold fresh
locally and the rest processed into meat and bone meal (Annex 10). Con-
sultants would prepare detailed engineering and financial studies on each
slaughterhouse and these would be subject to Bank approval. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Technical Services
3.10      The Project would emphasize the provision of technical services
to participating farmers. This is particularly important since the Project
aims at financing a relatively large number of medium-size smaller producers
who would require close supervision and guidance to achieve efficient
production.
3.11      A technical services unit would be staffed in the Livestock and
Poultry Group of the Agricultural Department, DBP. The Group would administer
all of DBP's lending to the livestock sector. A Technical Specialist would
assist the Head of the Group on overall management of the Project, but espe-
cially would assist on processing loan applications and ensuring that appro-
val or rejection is based on sound technical and financial considerations.
A staff of 25 to 30 livestock technicians would be assigned to the Project,
including at least one veterinarian well qualified and experienced in the
control and prevention of diseases in pigs and poultry. Such training as
would be needed would be done largely on-the-job under the supervision of the
Project specialists. A pig and poultry production specialist, based in the
Manila area, would assist the Chiefs of the Pig and Poultry Divisions in
executing the pig and poultry components of the Project. While encouraging
on-farm mixing of feeds, he would pay particular attention to the quality
and cost of rations using domestically produced feeds to the maximum consis-
tent with efficient production. A coconut/beef cattle production specialist,
b:ased in the Davao area, would assist the Chief of the Beef Division in
executing thie integrated coconut/beef cattle and hill beef cattle components
of the Project. The two specialists would cause applied investigational
work to he carried out in their respective fields. Finance is also provided
feto contracting two shlort-term consultants: one to investigate and advise
ou the feasibility of using molasses and sugarcane tops for beef production,
including breeding and fattening, and the second to investigate and advise
on a pig breeding improvement scheme. It may prove possible to fill some



- 11 -
of these posts through bilateral assistance. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that DBP would: (a) as a condition of loan effectiveness,
establish a Livestock and Poultry Group and employ a suitably qualified
and experienced Technical Specialist whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank; (b) employ
within seven months of loan signing, a pig and poultry production specialist,
and a coconut/beef cattle production specialist whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank;
(c) contract within 15 months of loan signing, two consultants, whose qualifi-
cations and experience and conditions of contract would be acceptable to the
Bank; and (d) employ an adequate number of technicians to appraise and
supervise Project investments. The terms of references and qualifications
for the specialists and consultants are given in Annex 12.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$15.5 million
(1 99.3 million), of which US$4.8 million (t 31.0 million), or 31%,
represents foreign exchange requirements. Components of total Project cost
are shown in the following table as to the major fixed investments for farm
development and construction of the slaughterhouses; the cost of technical
services; and as to the major inputs for incremental working capital.



- 12 -
Total Foreign
Total Project Costs              Project Exchange
Components       Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total   Cost    Cost
---(P Millions)---- --(US$ Millions)---
Fixed Investments
Pasture Establish-
ment                  1.9    0.5    2.4   0.3    0.1    0.4        2       20
Fencing                0.8    0.3    1.1   0.1    0.0    0.1        1       30
Water Facilities       0.4    0.1    0.5   0.1    0.0    0.1         1      20
Farm Buildings        19.5    3.4   22.9   3.1    0.5    3.6    23          15
Equipment for Farm
Buildings             5.9    2.9    8.8   0.9    0.4    1.3        9       33
Breeding Stock         9.9    0.3   10.2   1.5    0.1    1.6    10           3
Farm Machinery         0.2    0.4    0.6   0.0    0.1    0.1        1       60
Slaughterhouse
Buildings and
Equipment             2.3    1.5    3.8   0.4    0.2    0.6        4       40
Miscellaneous          3.3    0.4    3.7   0.5    0.1    0.6        4       10
Technical Services    3.2    3.0    6.2   0.5    0.5    1.0         6       48
Sub-total         47.4   12.8   60.2   7.4    2.0    9.4    61          21
Incremental Working
Capital
Concentrate Feed      10.0   15.1   25.1   1.6    2.3    3.9    25          60
Medicines and
Vaccines              0.3    0.4    0.7   0.0    0.1    0.1        1       60
Fertilizer             0.9    1.3    2.2   0.2    0.2    0.4        2       60
Miscellaneous          9.7    1.4   11.1   1.5    0.2    1.7    11          13
Sub-total         20.9   18.2   39.1   3.3    2.8    6.1    39         47
Total Project Cost 68.3   31.0   99.3  10.7    4.8   15.5   100           31
The costs have been estimated at prices current during Project appraisal,
and, for slaughterhouses, a price contingency of 17% (18% for domestically
procured items and 12% for imported items) of base-line costs has been in-
cluded for probable price rises from appraisal time (July 1971) to the
expected average time of disbursements.
D. Financing
3.13      Financing would be shared in about the following amounts and
proportions:



- 13 -
US$ Millions
Beneficiaries   DBP/PDBs        Bank        Total
Components                 Amount   %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %
Farm/Ranch Development            2.0   15       4.6  35      6.4  50    13.0  100
Slaughterhouses                   0.5   32      0.4  25      0.6  43       1.5  100
Technical Services                -       -     0.5  50       0.5  50      1.0  100
Share in Total Project
Cost                       2.5   16      5.5  36      7.5  48    15.5  100
On average, farmers and ranchers would contribute about 15% of investment
requirements, and, in addition, ranchers would contribute some retained
breeding stock that in the absence of the Project would be sold. However,
a wide range of farmer/rancher contributions would occur. For example, the
small and medium sized producer would provide, on average, 10% of invest-
ment cost, whereas the individual "large" producer would be required to
contribute not less than 50% (para 3.26). Of total farm investments it is
estimated that about 85% would be made on small-and medium-sized farms, and
about 15% on "large" farms. Sub-borrowers for slaughterhouses would be
required to contribute at least 30% of the investment financing, with DBP
or some other Government institution taking an additional 25% equity position.
The Bank loan would total US$7.5 million, of which 64%, or US$4.8 million,
would be for foreign exchange requirements. The balance of investment
financing would be supplied by DBP/PDBs. These financing arrangements were
assured during negotiations. The inclusion of US$2.7 million for local costs
would increase the Bank's participation from the 31% foreign exchange compo-
nent to nearly 50% of total Project cost. This would be adequate to bring
about the necessary improvements in organization, and lending criteria and
procedures required under the Project.
3.14      The Bank loan would be to Government for 14 years including
6-1/2 years of grace. This proposed term is based on a commitment period over
three years of sub-loans and repayment terms of up to 11 years. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would relend
the proceeds of the loan to DBP on the same terms (including interest rate
and grace period), and that Government would assume the foreign exchange risk.
This arrangement would be similar to that of the Rice Processing and Storage
Project (Loan 720-PH).
E. Procurement
3.15      The three slaughterhouses, estimated to cost about US$225,000 each,
would be constructed under turnkey contracts. Turnkey contracts would be
used in this case because (i) several types of equipment are involved, all
of which are not made by any single manufacturer and (ii) it is essential
that someone take overall responsibility to achieve compatibility and syn-
chronization of all items of equipment. The contracts would be awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. No customs duties are applicable directly to the turnkey contract
as such. Equipment accounts for approximately 55% of the contract cost and



- 14 -
bids would be expected from both civil works contractors and firms manufac-
turing slaughterhouse equipment. The equipment required for such facilities
is rather diverse, and the bidders would be expected to supply the equipment
from a variety of sources. Import duties on slaughterhouse equipment range
from 10% to 20%, averaging about 11% for the facilities proposed. Under the
Laurel-Langley Treaty with the United States, items imported into the
Philippines from that country are assessed at 90% of the normal duty. The
preferential arrangements under the Treaty will be phased out by December
1973; procurement of the facilities would be spread over several years
beginning late in 1973. Goods for on-farm investments and incremental
working capital inputs would be acquired through existing commercial
channels because of the diversity, small size of individual purchases, and
free choice to be left to the individual farmer. The Philippines has a good
network of dealers in agricultural inputs and competition is keen. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that procurement would be as outlined
here. Because DBP has in the past, at times, insisted that a borrower procure
goods such as fencing and machinery financed by a DBP loan only from another
DBP loan beneficiary who is a supplier of these inputs, assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that sub-borrowers (other than sluaghterhouses)
under the Project would be free to purchase from normal commercial channels
of their choice. This provision would be covered in the sub-loan agreement
between DBP and sub-borrowers (para 3.22).
F. Disbursements
3.16      Disbursements to sub-borrowers (which would be related to the
phasing of their investments) would be over one year for broilers, over two
years for pigs, layers, and slaughterhouses, over three years for integrated
coconut/beef cattle development, and over four years for hill beef cattle
ranch development. Since loan commitments are over three years, loan
disbursement would be over six years (Annex 13). The Bank would reimburse,
against appropriate documents, 60% of medium- and long-term loans granted
by DBP/PDBs to Project beneficiaries; 100% of the salary, international
travel, housing and other allowances of the Technical Specialist, the two
livestock production specialists, the two consultants (para 3.11), and
international training; and 100% c.i.f. for investigational equipment and
materials or 60% of total expenditures if procured in country. The estimated
schedule of quarterly disbursement is detailed in Annex 14.
G. Organization and Management
Development Bank of the Philippines
3.17      The DBP would administer the Project.  DBP's banking system includes
its headquarters at Makati, near Manila, and 26 branch and 29 agency offices
countrywide. The personnel complement of approximately 1,800 is about equally
divided between the head office and country offices. About two-thirds of
DBP's agricultural lending is done by its branch and agency offices, whereas,
most of the industrial lending is from the head office. To date, industry
obtained 60% to 70% of DBP's annual lending, agriculture 20% to 25%, and the



- 15 -
remainder went to miscellaneous programs.  Now, however, the policy is to
concentrate more on agriculture at the expense of industry, particularly
heavy industry.  Annex 15 gives a review of DBP operations.
3.18      Financial Condition.  DBP's assets have more than doubled within
the past four years from US$235 million at the end of FY 1967 to US$515
million at the end of FY 1971.  Liabilities, however, increased at a faster
rate over the same period, from about 70% of assets in 1967 to 85% in 1971.
The more rapid increase in liabilities as compared with assets largely
reflects increased domestic borrowings, issuance of DRP bonds and an increase
from time deposits. Since 1966, DBP has guaranteed foreign loans and suppliers'
credits for many of its clients, particularly in the industrial sector.
Although such guarantees have served to expand the country's foreign loan
resources, the country's financial difficulties in 1969-70 placed a severe
financial strain on DBP to honor its guarantees. Advances peaked at about
US$100 million in FY 1970-71. Future advances, however, should be of a much
lower magnitude since the economy is improving and has adjusted to the de
facto devaluation of the peso early in 1970. Clients bear the foreign
exchange risk and probability of full recovery of advances is high. After
passing a critical period in FY 1970-71, when normal lending operations
virtually ceased, DBP's financial condition is improving. Monthly collections
on direct loans about doubled during the past 12 months over the preceding
year's experience; it will receive substantial repayments of its guaranteed
loan accounts; interest rates were increased in August 1970 from about 9%
to 12%; and it has resumed more of its normal lending activities.
3.19      Operating Results.  On average, over the fiscal years 1967-70, DBP's
net annual income was close to US$4.7 million. However, it declined in FY
1971 to about US$3 million, due mainly to increases in interest rates on funds
borrowed by DBP, which were not compensated for by increases in the interest
rates charged to DBP's loan beneficiaries (para 3.18). Net income, as a
percentage of loans and investments, dropped from 2.3% in FY 1967 to under
1% in FY 1971. Future net earnings should rise to pre-FY 1971 levels upon
resumption of normal lendings at higher interest rates (para 3.18).
3.20      Loan Defaults.  Excluding loans in foreclosure (about 3% of total),
DBP's past due amortizations are around 17% of the total direct loan port-
folios. By sectoral lending, the highest is in the industrial sector, 19%;
followed by real estate, 18%; agriculture, 14% and Government, 6%. DBP's
collections improved in FY 1971 as compared to FY 1970 due to a more forceful
collection program. DBP's write-offs of uncollectable accounts has been
minimal, reaching only a total of about US$80,000 during the last five years.
Measured against the aggregate of loans in foreclosure, past due and loss
experience its reserves of about US$18 million are considered adequate.
3.21      Agricultural Department.  The Agricultural Department is responsible
for the agricultural credit programs of DBP. The Department is headed by a
manager, a long-time employee with extensive administrative experience. The
head office has a technical staff of about 50 agriculturists with degree
training in general agriculture, animal husbandry, veterinary secience, agri-
cultural economics, and agricultural engineering. In addition about 125
agriculturists are attached to branch and agency offices. The Department is



- 16 -
being reorganized to place agricultural credit into principal sub-sector
fields, for example, livestock and poultry, crops, fisheries and agro-
business. To further improve its efficiency, appraisal and supervision
work will be done by the same technicians. There has been a definite
improvement in the quality of the professionals in recent years through
recruitment of more suitably qualified technicians.
H. Lending Policies and Procedures
3.22      DBP would make sub-loans directly to Project participants, on
the basis of investment projects evaluated by Project technicians, and
approved by the Technical Specialist as to technical, financial and
economic feasibility. Each sub-loan for slaughterhouses would be subject
to prior Bank approval. In these reviews, the Bank would place particular
emphasis on management capability, marketing, and control of slaughterhouses.
Supervision of sub-loans would be the responsibility of the technical
services unit (para 3.11). During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that DBP would use a standard sub-loan agreement for investment projects
and that the agreement form would be submitted to the Bank for approval.
3.23      It is expected that DBP would enter into an agreement with
several of the Private Development Banks (PDBs) to participate in the
Project as an on-lending arrangement to participating farmers. PDBs
are partially capitalised (about 50%) by DBP and can rediscount medium-
and long-term loans at 8% per annum. Given the location of many PDBs in
Project areas and familiarity with potential sub-borrowers, it would be
desirable to have their participation, subject to DBP approval. It is
estimated that four to six banks would participate. A subsidiary loan
agreement would be necessary between DBP and participating PDBs. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the agreement between the DBP
and PDBs would be satisfactory to the Bank. DBP would reimburse participat-
ing PDBs 60% of the value of sub-loans at 8% interest. If, however, no
PDBs participate the lending program could still be satisfactorily handled
by the DBP system (See Annex 15 paras 36-38 for details concerning PDBs).
3.24      The head office of DBP, its branch and agency offices and partici-
pating PDB's in Project areas, would receive loan applications. Applicants
would be screened by the Project technical staff (aided by other staff where
necessary) with regard to creditworthiness. Development loans would not
exceed 80% of the market value of the real estate to be mortgaged, including
the values ascribed to the new fixed on-farm investments. This is present
DBP policy. Chattel mortgages could be taken on cattle and machinery but
would not exceed 65% of their market value.
3.25      Repayment terms of sub-loans would be flexible and would be based
on the projected cash flows of the enterprises being financed. Interest and
repayment terms to sub-borrowers on medium- and long-term loans would
generally be in accordance with the following schedule:



- 17 -
Total      Grace
Interest     Term       Period
(%)             (years)-----
Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle  12             7-10       3-4
Hill Beef Cattle Ranches          12           8-11        4-5
Pigs                              12           7-10        2-3
Poultry                           12           5- 8        1-2
Slaughterhouses                   12          10          4
The interest rate of 12% on medium- to long-term loans is in line with
present DBP interest rates and the level of interest rates generally (para
2.17). The blended cost of capital to the DBP for the Project would be about
7% per annum on the basis of a Bank loan at 7.25% and an average cost of
nearly 7% for DBP's own funds. This would give the DBP a spread of 5% per
annum on medium- and long-term loans. Overhead, administrative services,
and Project technical services would leave about 3% for reserves and profit,
which would be appropriate. The financial implications of the Project for
DBP are shown in Annex 16. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
with respect to the foregoing lending terms and conditions (paras 3.22 to
3.25).
3.26      Since it is intended to give preference to smaller producers
on a preferential basis, "large" producers would be required to contribute
not less than 50% of investments from their own resources and pay a one
time service fee of 2% on the amount of the sub-loan and 12% interest on
outstanding loan balances. For purposes of application of this criteria,
the following limits would define "large" producers:
(a)  over 50 ha of coconuts;
(b)  over 50 sows;
(c)  over 60,000 broiler output per year;
(d)  over 10,000 laying hen capacity; and
(e)  for hill beef ranches, loans in excess of US$50,000.
All sub-loans in excess of US$50,000 would be submitted to the Bank for
prior approval. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
DBP would comply with these restrictions. Under provisions of existing
legislation (R.A. 6142), beneficiaries of the Project would be cooperatives,
private corporations or associations. An individual,however, would be
eligible through forming a partnership (association). The legal procedure
would be simple and it is expected that this would not be a deterrent to
Project participation.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.27      DBP's business and financial operations are under audit and inspec-
tion by an internal comptroller division. By charter, DBP is subject to an
independent audit and examination by the Government Auditor General, who
maintains a staff of about 60 certified public accountants and auditors at
DBP. Separate Project accounts would be maintained and audited annually by
the Government Auditor General and such audit would be acceptable to the
Bank. Audited Project accounts, as well as DBP's financial statements,
would be submitted to the Bank within three months of the close of its fiscal



- 18 -
year. Furthermore, DBP would monitor an adequate number of Project sub-loans
to make periodic evaluations of the economic impact of the lending program.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01      A wide range of livestock products, and some copra, would be pro-
duced by the Project. The greatest absolute quantity increases are projected
to occur in eggs, broilers and pigs, with small increases in beef and copra
production. The following table shows, in m tons, 1970 national production,
incremental Project production in year-5 and again at full development or
year-10, and expresses incremental Project production at full development as
a percentage of national production.
Incremental Project Production
1970 National           Full Development  Full Development
Products   Production    Year S         Year 10         as % of 1970
==-------------('000 tons)-------------
Beef              36       0.35           1.39                4
Pork             374       7.74           7.74                2
Poultry           88       4.55           4.55                5
Eggs             104       9.34           9.34                9
Copra         1,400        0.76           2.46              0.2
B. Markets and Marketing
4.02      The incremental Project production of meat should be readily ab-
sorbed by the expanding Philippine domestic market at current price levels.
The Philippine population is presently growing at about 3.2% per annum and
per capita income by about 2.5% per annum. Assuming an income elasticity of
demand for meat and eggs slightly greater than unity, and a continuation of
the present trends in population and per capita income growth, this would
result, at constant prices, in about a 6% annual increase in the quantity
of eggs and meat demanded. Supply, on the other hand, is expected to grow
at about 5% yearly. According to available statistics, domestic meat pro-
duction over the past decade has increased at an annual rate of approximately
5% per annum while egg production has declined, but over the past years
egg production is again increasing. Imports of meat and meat products in
1969 were estimated at about US$9 million up from US$6.8 million in 1965
which reflects the faster growth of demand as against supply (para 2.04).
Due to devaluation of the peso in early 1970, imports of meat and meat
products for that year declined to about US$5 million. Nevertheless,
present trends indicate an increasing meat deficit in the Philippines over
the coming years, and the Project will have a modest effect on meeting the
increased demand and, therefore, decreasing future imports of meat.



- 19 -
4.03      The southern Luzon region, which includes the Greater Manila area,
accounts for about 40% of total meat consumption in the Philippines. The
pig and poultry Project areas are centered here, and, given the fairly good
roads in this part of the Philippines, transportation to market would present
few problems. The pig and poultry products would be handled by normal mar-
keting channels which are satisfactory for marketing Project output.  The
increased beef supply resulting from the Project in the Mindanao Regions would
similarly be marketed through normal commercial channels with the majority of
it expected to reach the Manila market (para 2.13). Most cattle are shipped
live from Mindanao to Manila with substantial loss in weight. The Project,
by supporting three small slaughterhouses in Mindanao with control in the
hands of the producers, aims at changing the marketing system through time so
that carcass beef is shipped to Manila rather than live cattle. This is a
long-term goal of Government's marketing policy and the Project would merely
initiate the change. Producer profit margins are adequate under the present
marketing system to successfully carry out the Project, but by changing the
system from shipping live cattle to shipping carcasses it is hoped to raise
producer prices (by decreasing marketing costs) and thereby beef supply,,
Feeder steers from Mindoro and Masbate Islands would continue to be handled
by the present system which is quite satisfactory. Incremental Project
production of copra would be relatively very small and would be satisfactorily
handled by existing marketing channels.
4.04       Since imports by the Philippines traditionally have constituted
less than 1% of the international trade in beef, veal and pork, the
production of meat generated by the Project would not have a significant
effect on prices and trade in these commodities. The incremental production
of copra from the Project would be absorbed into the world fats and oils
market without affecting world price levels.
C. Producer Benefits
4.05      benefits to producers participating in the Project would be con-
siderable and the two complementary inputs supplied by the Project, namely
credit and improved technology, would be essential to achieve these results.
A summary of producer benefits, derived from representative production models,
is given in the following table:



- 20 -
Coconut/
Coconut/      Beef       Hill
Beef      Cattle       Beef       Pig
Investment   Cattle    Breeding/   Cattle   Breeding/  Poultry/  Poultry/ Slaughter-
Model     Fattening  Fattening  Ranching  Fattening  Broilers  Layers   houses
Investment
Cost (US$)      1,300      5,700     31,000      9,400       8,300   15,400    518,000
Net Income/
At Present
(US$)         161      1,496       2,895      1,600       1,695    3,775        -
At Full De-
velopment/2      956      3,517      14,706     4,183       3,390   11,328    116,094
Increment         795     2,021       11,811     2,583       1,695    7,553         -
Rate of Return
on Incremental
Investment         36%        19%         21%        29%        42%       47%         23%
Debt Service/    548       1,414       7,578     2,359       1,814    5,766       57,344
Increment after
Debt Service      247        607      4,233        224         119    1,767        5,875
/1   Sales minus operating expenses including imputed value of family labor.
1_   Full development varies from year 2 to year 10.
_T   Excluding short-term financing; interest and principal on medium- and
long-term loans per annum.
4.06      The financial rates of return would be sufficiently high to make
the proposed investments attractive (Annex 17). It is worth noting that
poultry, with the highest rates of return and risk are also the products
where the greatest relative increases in production are expected to occur
under the Project. In calculating these returns, current prices for both
inputs and outputs were assumed to continue at their present levels. The
time required to reach full development ranges from two to three years for
poultry, slaughterhouses, and pigs; to nine years for beef cattle ranches
and the integrated coconut/beef cattle farms.
4.07      Total incremental Project production would be approximately US$17
million per annum at full development. Incremental tax returns to all levels
of Government would be increased by approximately US$0.5 million annually.
This estimate is based on current levels of all taxes, including income
taxes, levied on agricultural and agro-industrial producers. Nevertheless,
because marginal tax rates are low, most of the incremental net income gen-
erated by the Project is expected to be retained by sub-borrowers. It is
expected that some of the incremental income would be used to increase
consumption of basic items like improved clothing, housing and food. The
remainder is expected to be invested in expanding these relatively small
operations by self-financed growth.



- 21 -
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The economic rate of return is estimated at approximately 36%
after adjusting producer benefits to reflect the real cost of labor to the
economy and the transfer aspects of taxes (Annex 18). Should actual incre-
mental production be valued at 10% less, due either to a drop in all output
prices or a short-fall in physical production, and concurrently, should
feed grain prices drop by 10% from current levels, the economic rate of
return would be about 30%. Should investment costs be 10% higher than proj-
ected, the economic rate of return would be about 33%.
5.02      The Project involves both additional foreign exchange earnings from
expanded exports (copra) and foreign exchange savings from the substitution
of domestic production for imports. At a 10% discount rate, which is a
reasonable rate for the Philippines, the net foreign exchange benefits over
the life of the Project would be about US$56 million.
5.03      Rural employment, underemployment and a lack of faith in the
fairness of the economic system, are very prevalent in the rural areas in
the Philippines. The Project would create about 1,700 new jobs in rural
areas, providing work for people who previously were either unemployed or
greatly underemployed, thus benefitting about 10,000 people. Additionally,
some 1,500 sub-borrowers, with about 8,500 dependents, would benefit directly
from the Project. Average investment per new job created would be approxi-
mately US$7,000. By channeling credit to promising small- and medium-size
producers, coupled with intensive technical services, and thereby demonstrat-
ing the ability of this class of farmers to efficiently produce agricultural
commodities the Project could lead to a fundamental change in the thinking
of some Government officials who today seem to think that "bigness" and eco-
nomic efficiency are synonymous, and that small producers are generally in-
capable of efficient production. But it is this class of small- to medium-
size producers who hold the key to rapid change in Philippine agriculture
because they own most of the coconut trees, cattle, poultry and especially
the pigs. Therefore, apart altogether from the social advantages, redirecting
credit toward the small- to medium-size producers, is sound economically.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01       During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(1)  That Government would relend the proceeds of the loan to DBP
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and would
assume the foreign exchange risk (para 3.14),
(2)  Thiat DBP would:



- 22 -
(a) Appoint as Head of the Livestock and Poultry Group In
the Agricultural Department a qualified and experienced
officer after consultation with the Bank; appoint within
seven months of the signing of the Loan Agreement a
qualified and experienged pig and poultry production
specialist and a qualified and experienced coconut/beef
production specialist, which appointments would be
approved by the Bank; appoint within 15 months of the
signing of the Loan Agreement a qualified and experienced
consultant on pig breeding, and a qualified and experienced
consultant on the use of sugarcane by-products for livestock
production, which appointments would be approved by the
Bank; employ an adequate number of livestock technicians
to appraise and supervise Investment Projects (para 3.11);
(b) Provide from its own resources, as well as from participating
PDB's, funds for on-farm and slaughterhouse development
including working capital; finance local costs of technical
and consultant services (para 3.13);
(c) Apply international competitive bidding procedures for the
procurement and installation of equipment and the civil works
required therefor as one contract for each slaughterhouse
(para 3.15).
(i) submit to the Bank for its prior approval sub-loans
for each slaughterhouse development and sub-loans
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent (paras 3.22 and 3.26); and
(ii) extend medium- and long-term sub-loans for execution
of Investment Projects recommended by the Technical
Specialist, from 5 to 11 years including grace periods
of 1 to 5 years at 12% interest on outstanding loan
balances excepting large producers who would pay an
additional one time service fee of 2% on the total
amount of sub-loan granted (paras 3.25 and 3.26).
6.02      As a condition of effectiveness, DBP would establish the
Livestock and Poultry Group and would appoint the Technical Specialist
(para 3.11).
6.03      The Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$7.5 million for 14
years including a grace period of six and half years.
March 3, 1972



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture in the Economy
A. General
1.        The Republic of the Philippines is situated in the tropics between
latitudes 4023' and 21025' N. The archipelago extends over a distance of
1,600 km from north to south and comprises more than 7,100 islands. Eleven
islands account for 96% of the total land area.
Climate
2.        The Philippines enjoys a tropical maritime climate, characterized
by high temperatures, humidity and rainfall. Mean annual temperatures,
range between 21°C (70°F) in the coolest month (January) to 29C (85°F) in
the hottest month (May). Rainfall, the most important climatic variable,
ranges from 966 mm (38 in) in the south to 5,530 mm (218 in) in the highlands
of Luzon. Rainfall is uniform from year to year, with an average variation
between years of 14%. Typhoons occur most frequently in the northern part of
the country. The climate can be classified into four main categories, based
on rainfall distribution throughout the year. The distribution of these
categories is shown on the map, and the corresponding average monthly
precipitation is given on the Chart. Humidity is high throughout the year.
Regional differences in the occurrence of seasonal rainfall and typhoons have
a considerable bearing on the seasonality of production and types of crops
that can be grown in different parts. Climatically, the Philippines has a
high potential for crop and forage production.
3.        The environment is well suited to pig and poultry raising.
Ruminants, particularly Bos Indicus type, adapt well and there are no
major climatic restrictions on the development of beef cattle farming
systems.
Soils and Vegetation
4.        The Philippines is rich in soil resources.  Soils are mostly
free draining, with medium to low fertility levels. In general, there is
a marked response to both phosphorous and nitrogen applications but little
response to potash. Ph is low on the shale and sandstone derived soils
(range, 4.8 to 5.6) and high on the limestone and volcanic tuff (range, 6.2
to 6.7).
5.        The main variations in vegetation are due to the combined effects
of altitude, rainfall and the biotic factor. The original forest situated



ANNEX 1
Page 2
from sea level to 700 m altitude is formed by numerous species of large
trees with high timber value. At about 700 m, the forest becomes open
without much undercover vegetation. After the primary forest is cut,
shifting cultivation is practiced on the uplands, and burning and
cropping lead to a final reasonably stable grassland. In isolated
areas, the legumes Centrosema and Pueraria occur naturally.
Land Use
6.        The Philippines has approximately 30 million ha of land, the use
of which is summarized in the following tabulation:
Million ha
Productive forest                             14.1
Unproductive forest                            1.8
Cultivated and plantations                     9.8
Open land                                      2.6
Managed pasture                                0.8
Marsh and small water                          0.2
Urban and others                               0.7
Total:             30.0
7.        This classification does not represent optimum use of land
for agriculture but is rather, administrative, reflecting the Government
bureau under which land is administered and controlled. This is particularly
true of forest, open land and managed pasture categories (almost entirely
state owned), where sufficient reconnaissance information is not available
for accurate classification. In many areas, the land use pattern is
changing due to population pressure, with land classified as forest, open
land and managed pasture being forceably occupied by rapidly expanding
land-hungry people seeking living space. The development of ranching for
large areas is not only illogical but improbable when considered in this
context. Mindoro Island, with low population pressure, is an exception,
however, and offers considerable scope for extensive beef ranching on under-
utilized grassland.
Food and Commercial Crops
8.        Almost 10 million ha classified as cultivated and plantations is
growing a wide range of food and commercial crops (Table 1). The food
crops are rice (3.1 million ha); corn (2.4 m ha); roots, fruits and other
crops (0.9 m ha); and commercial crops are coconuts (1.9 m ha); sugarcane
(0.37 m ha); abaca, tobacco, and rubber and others (0.29 m ha).
Economic Importance
9.        Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy in terms
of employment and export earnings. In 1969, aagriculture, forestry and
fishing provided work for about 52% of the total labor force. Over the



ANNEX 1
Page 3
period 1968-70, agriculture contributed about 36% of GNP. Food crops
contributed 10%; livestock and poultry, 6%; commercial export crops, 6%;
fisheries, 4%; and miscellaneous, 4%.
10.       Out of total exports, amounting to US$1,043 million in 1970,
agricultural products contributed about 80%. Main export items include
forest, coconut and sugar products, contributing 24%, 22% and 18%, respectively,
of export value. The projected growth for the whole economy between 1972 and
1975 is, according to the latest Economic Mission estimates (October, 1971),
6.3% per annum. The corresponding estimate for the agricultural sector is
5%.
11.       In 1970, total imports amounted to US$1,000 million.  Imported
food products for human consumption accounted for US$96 million (9%)
approximately, made up of cereals and cereal products, US$33 million; dairy
products and eggs, US$32 million approximately; fish and fish products,
US$17 million; meat and meat products, US$5 million; and fruit and vegetables,
US$4 million. Animal feeds (US$8 million) accounted for about 1% of the
total imports.
B. Livestock
Pig Production
12.       The national pig herd in 1971 has been estimated at 12,500,000
head, and estimates of the slaughtering figure for 1969 range from 6.35 to
8.8 million. Government estimates that 335,000 m tons of pork were produced
in 1968 and forecasts a production of 423,000 and 498,000 m tons for 1971
and 1973, respectively.
13.       It is estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that
approximately 98% of the pigs are produced from herds of less than 50 head.
The remainder are on large farms, recently developed and varying enormously
in production efficiency. In general, breeding and fattening operations
are combined, but there is some feeding of purchased weaners.
14.       The raising of pigs is a well developed traditional occupation
among Filipino small farmers ane villagers. Although individual enterprises
are small, there is considerable experience in pig handling and management.
Many of the small- to medium-sized producers are efficient, with good
housing, management and hygiene. In the judgment of the mission, a large
proportion of the small producers have the potential to become viable
small-scale commercial producers if credit and technical assistance is
provided. The emergence of this type of producer is desirable and can
provide guidelines for future structural development of the pig industry.
The attitude of some Government officials and also within DBP that emphasizes
the development of large units (a minimum of 100 sows) cannot be justified
as supporting the best pattern for development.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
15.       The year round hot humid climate reduces housing requirements
to a minimum, permitting simple open-type shelters to be used as protection
from sun and rain and dividing pigs into manageable groups for feeding and
husbandry. Excessive heat can reduce feed intake and growth but this can
be avoided by using an inexpensive water sprinkling device in the yard,
thus allowing the pig a "shower" when required. On the better managed
farms, a 'sow wallow' is provided.
16.       Although all the common diseases that affect pigs are present,
they can be prevented and controlled by vaccination, hygiene and appropriate
veterinary medication. The required vaccines and veterinary medicines are
readily available in the Philippines, although their supply, together with
an effective veterinary service, can be improved for the small farmer.
17.       All the major breeds are represented and a small number of boars
are imported annually from New Zealand, Australia and the USA.
18.       Feed accounts for about 80% to 90% of pig production costs in
the Philippines and, to improve efficiency, attention must be focussed
on this. The feed cost of producing a kg of pig meat is determined by
the purchase price of feed and the conversion efficiency, and considerable
improvement in both these areas could be achieved by purchasing raw
materials and mixing on the farm.
19.       A feature of Philippine agriculture is the large quantities of
by-products available at low cost for animal feeding, which is a strong
incentive to their overuse in commercial purchased feeds. Such by-products
include rice and corn offals, copra meal and molasses. The formulation,
however, of balanced high energy rations necessary for intensive pig and
poultry production using these ingredients is difficult.
20.       The quality of pig rations, both in terms of protein and energy,
can be improved considerably. The wide range of by-products available,
including molasses, affords an opportunity to produce low cost balanced
rations if attention is given to incorporating the correct proportions
of high energy and protein feeds (e.g., corn and soya bean meal). Although
adequate feed evaluation information is not available to enable full use
to be made of the varied domestic raw materials in pig rations, USAID has
accumulated evidence, from on-farm feeding experience, that savings of
about 20% in the cost of pig rations are possible with home mixing when
expert nutrition advice is provided.
21.       Feed conversion efficiency is influenced, not only by feed quality,
but also by the genetic capability of the pig to convert feed to meat.
Great genetic variation exists between pigs in this important trait and
there is worldwide evidence that considerable improvement can be achieved
by using performance-tested boars. Rate of progress in feed conversion
efficiency by performance testing depends on selection intensity. With
a selection intensity of 1 in 10, an improvement of 0.05 can be expected
per round of testing. A small improvement in feed conversion efficiency
from 4 to 3.9 kg feed/kg liveweight gain increases profit per pig by 20%
in the Philippines.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
22.       At present there is a tendency, particularly on larger farms,
to allow too much floor space per pig. On-farm appraisal showed allowances
ranging from 1 to 3 m2 per pig. Considerable savings in housing
costs are possible by adopting the lower figure without any reduction in
animal performance.
Poultry
23.       There were an estimated 95 million birds in the Philippines in
1970, and the projected Government target for 1974 is 120 million. Poultry
slaughtered for meat in 1968 totaled 74 million, with a projected target for
1974 of 101 million. Surveys show that 90% of the poultry are on farms with
less than 500 birds. The poultry industry is therefore characterized by a
large number of small producers and a small number of large commercial units.
It is estimated that nearly 3 million householders keep poultry, of which
1.2 million are non-farm units.
24.       In rural areas, the traditional raising of native birds is
widely practiced. A few birds are kept to supply the household with meat
and eggs and any surplus production is sold. Output of meat and eggs is
low from these small birds but, since they are scavengers, production costs
are negligible.
25.       Commercial poultry farms, with flocks ranging from a few hundred
to many thousand birds, are found throughout the Philippines, generally
using intensive confinement methods of management. White leghorns in
cage units are used for egg production. Hybrids and, in some cases,
leghorns are used for meat production. Recently, a small number of large
integrated poultry firms have developed, with units ranging from 30,000
to 100,000 layers or broilers. On the commercial farms, modern methods of
production are used and management standards are satisfactory.
26.       Breeds used on commercial farms are derived from imported grand-
parent and parent stock. Franchise agreements are held with most of the
major poultry breeding establishments in the USA. About half a million
day-old chicks are imported annually and consist of white leghorns for
egg production and meat-type hybrids for broiler production.
27.       Although modern breeds are used on all commercial farms, the
traditional small producer still uses native low-producing birds. It is
estimated that about 75% of the layers are pure-bred imported breeds,
whereas only 25% of the poultry meat supply is produced by commercial
broilers.
28.       All the common diseases affecting poultry are present.  Mortality
from Newcastle disease is high despite preventive vaccination of an
estimated 30 million birds annually. Since prevention and control measures,
including vaccination and medication, are available for all diseases and
parasites, they present no major obstacle to expansion of poultry.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
29.       As in the case of pigs, the cost and quality of feed is of prime
importance for egg and broiler production. The discussion of feed quality,
cost and home mixing in relation to pigs (paras 19 and 20) is equally
relevant to poultry. The genetic component of feed conversion efficiency
is taken care of by importation of specialized foundation stock and, on
appraisal, the existing hatchery and multiplication facilities within the
Philippines were considered adequate to meet existing and foreseeable
demands. The ratio of feed cost per kg to price received per kg of broiler
meat and eggs is favorable to the producer and allows a high level of
profitability.
30.       Intensive pig and poultry operations can be successful only if the
principles and techniques on which intensification is based are well
understood and implemented. Without an efficient extension service, back-
yard producers cannot make the transition to small commercial enterprises.
Carabao and Beef Cattle
31.       Carabaos, estimated at 4.7 million in 1970, are located throughout
the country, with the highest concentration in Luzon. They are primarily
used for draught in rice paddies, the majority of small farmers owning one,
which is fed surplus green feed from headlands and rice straw. Carabao meat
commands a lower price than beef.
32.       Cattle population was estimated at 2.1 million in 1970.  Prior to
World War II, 1.4 million head were estimated but this had fallen to 0.7
million by 1950. Government statistics, showing an annual increase of 5%
to 6% from 1954 to 1960 and 4% to 5% from 1961 to 1967, appear extremely
high in view of the low weaning rate (50% approximately).
33.       For many years, native cattle have been crossed with Indian breeds,
particularly Nellore. In recent years, Brahman, Santa gertrudis and
Charol'is have been imported. Improved cattle perform well (growth rate,
600 to 700 grams/day) with good feeding and management. Brahman bulls of
reasonable quality are plentiful.
34.       All the common diseases of cattle are present but the disease
situation is not critical since adequate prevention and control measures are
in operation. An outbreak of foot and mouth that occurred in 1955 was
controlled by isolation and slaughter.
35.       Three systems of beef production are practiced -- cattle ranching
on natural grassland; breeding and/or fattening on improved pasture under
coconuts; and small backyard breeding and/or fattening enterprises.
36.       Cattle Ranching on Natural Grassland.  This involves breeding
herds, selling finished and/or store cattle from natural pasture. The
grasslands result from logging, often followed by shifting cultivation. A
cover of indigenous grasses is established after one or two years, charac-
terized by a low carrying capacity (one cow equivalent/3 ha). Ranches,
varying in size from 3 to several thousand ha, are located on hill and



ANNEX 1
Page 7
rolling land (3.4 million ha), classified as open land or managed pasture.
This grazing land is held on long-term Government lease and the rancher,
who may be a farmer or an investor from the commercial or professional
sectors, pays small rent, approximately P1/ha/year. The rancher usually
lives in a nearby town and the level of ranch supervision and management
varies greatly. Hill ranches produce most of the cattle but accurate
statistics are not available. This type of fanming is widespread but occurs
mainly in the highlands of Mindanao, Mindoro, kiasbate and Northern Luzon.
37.       Animals are sold at 3-1/2 to 4 years at 350 kg liveweight, and a
few ranches have small feedlots to finish animals quickly, using napier
grass, corn, rice bran and molasses. Many ranches also sell feeder cattle
(150 kg approximately) for backyard fattening on small farms. On the
average ranch, production could be increased two- to three-fold by
applying simple methods, including improving pastures and paying more
attention to stock management.
38.       There is evidence from research and farm practice that high
producing pastures (20 to 30 m tons dry matter/ha; stocking rate, two cow
equivalent/hectare), can be developed using para or guinea grass and a
legume (Centro or Stylo) after cultivation. There is also limited
evidence that natural grassland can be improved by oversowing with Centro
and Stylo after burning and fertilizer application in spring, where contour
does not permit cultivation.
39.       A serious constraint limiting the development of natural grasslands
is the widespread land dispute between the rancher and the small farmer for
possession. The magnitude of this problem is illustrated by the reduction
in cattle population from some 300,000 in the 1930's to 70,000 at present
in Bukidnon province. Although ranchers hold long-term leases on pasture
lands, which, in theory, are protected by law, the provincial and national
Governments are reluctant to use force to inforce it. In the past, land
suited to crop production was used for natural pasture, but the population
pressure may ensure that all land suitable for cultivation will produce
crops. Even land with low cropping potential is being cultivated at
present in many areas. A further constraint is the limited collateral
value of long-term leases.
40.       Beef Cattle and Coconuts.  The Philippines is the world's largest
copra producer. Approximately 1.9 million ha in coconut produce 1.5
million tons of copra annually. Some 540,000 tons of copra and 330,000
tons of coconut oil are exported, accounting for about 48% of the world
market. Exports of copra have been declining, however, as a result of a
shift towards increased local Drocessing and exports of coconut oil.
41.       Coconut production is carried out mainly on small farms.  About 41%,
47% and 11% of total area are in categories 0-5, 5-25, and 25 to 200 ha,
respectively. Mindanao Island contributes 69% to total exports although
accounting for only 21% of the trees planted. Mindanao is well suited to
coconut production, with loam coastal soils, high water table and evenly
distributed rainfall. The average yield is 1 m ton of copra/ha, which could



ANNEX 1
Page 8
easily be doubled if appropriate fertilizers were applied annually. Yields
of 4.5 tons of copra/ha are not uncommon on well managed farms.
42.       In the Davao region (Mindanao), high producing pastures under
coconuts (para grass and Centrocema) have been successfully established
on large plantations. Intensive beef production has been practiced for
several years and experience to date clearly demonstrates the vast potential.
Improved pasture under coconuts can maintain high carrying capacity (two
cow equivalents/ha) and high liveweight gains (600 to 700 grams/day). Yield
of copra can be doubled in approximately eight to nine years on farms
developing improved pasture. This increase can be obtained without pasture
improvement, however, if annual fertilizer dressing are applied. Young
plantations do not produce a crop for about seven years, but pasture can
be grown during this period and utilized by feeding cut grass to avoid
damaging coconut palms.
43.       Backyard Cattle Production.  Backyard breeding and/or fattening
a few cattle and/or carabaos is practised mainly in Central Luzon region
although it is common on small farms throughout the Philippines. Animals
are fed green forage, comprising weeds and grasses from headlands and from
under coconuts. Forage is supplemented with rice and corn bran (1-2
kg/head/day). Backyard fattening is becoming increasingly popular.
Typically, one to five feeder cattle are purchased and sold at premium
prices to supply the Manila market after a period of good feeding (1-1-1/2
years). The system is efficient, utilizing local feeds and surplus family
labor, and income is distributed to small farmers. Supply of feeder cattle
limits the expansion of this enterprise, the main source being Mindoro
Island. Young animals can be slaughtered due to good feeding and give
excellent meat.
C. Feed Grains
44.       Except for a small number of commercial farms, grain farming in
the Philippines is a small-scale operation, based on 2 million family
holdings that produce rice and corn for human and animal consumption.
Usually a large part of each holding is either rice or corn or both,
depending on the area, the season and the soil moisture status. Rice mono-
culture is practiced in many areas and corn monoculture is found in
Mindanao and in Cebu on high ground and in Cajegen valley. Simple tradi-
tional practices are generally used, and the quantity of fertilizers used
on rice and corn crops is low. Although these crops occupied 60% of the
total cultivated area in 1967, they used only about 21% of the total
fertilizer supply.
45.       Outstanding progress in rice production has been made in recent
years, and the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) made a
significant contribution. IRRI's comprehensive program on the rice plant
and its management, together with its training program for extension
workers, has resulted in a new technology package that is being disseminated



ANNEX 1
Page 9
rapidly to the rice farming community. The acceptance and widespread
adoption of the package by small farmers is of major significance, not
only in increasing rice, its staple food crop, but also in charting the
developmertt program required for other crops, particularly feed grains.
46.       Government's Four-Year Development Plan (1972-75) nrojects yellow
corn to increase by 8%/annum, and self-sufficiency in soybeans by 19/4. Al-
though these targets appear optimistic, experience with rice suggests that
they are achievable. The principal elements in the official Government feed
grains expansion strategy are the production and certification of improved
seed, research, training and improved credit facilities. IRRI is also under-
taking work on feed grains.
47.       Increasing emphasis to production of feed grains and soybeans
should enable the pig and poultry industries to expand and help narrow the
calorie/protein nutrition gap, as well as provide opportunities for Import
substitution.
48.       Approximately 2.2 million ha of corn was planted in 1969,
compared with 1.9 million in 1965. The main producing areas are Mindanao
(provinces of Davao, Cotabato and Bukidnon), Cagagan Valley Region and
Southern Tagalog Region. About 80% of the corn produced is white and the
yield per ha is extremely low (670 kg). The introduction of Opaque 2 corn
and Cassava is being investigated.
49.       Corn is imported to make up the deficit for animal feeding and to
help stabilize prices in periods of scarce supply. For example, 30,000
tons of yellow corn were imported in June 1969 from Thailand after a long
drought. Corn supplies are erratic over the year and there are large
fluctuations in price. The price paid by one feed mill in 1969 doubled
from P 0.20/kg at harvest time to P 0.40 a few months later. The price
received by the corn producer could be improved considerably by adopting
a more efficient system of corn marketing. At present, corn is purchased
by small wholesalers who provide credit to small farmers for their house-
hold needs and are, therefore, in a strong position to dictate price.
50.       Sorghum is at present of minor importance, with 2,000 ha planted
in 1969. Soybeans are a new crop and there is need for more information
on varieties adapted to the environment and on control of fungal diseases.
Although production at present is insignificant, it is expected that
diffIculties will be overcome and requirements will be home-produced by
1974.
51.       Molasses production amounted to 505,000 tons in 1969 and is
available in the main sugarcane producing area, Negros Occidental, for animal
fee(l at USM10 per m ton or less. There is considerable interest in exploring
the possibility of utilizing surplus molasses for beef production.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
D. Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
52.       Until the turn of this century, land tenure in the Philippines
was essentially feudal in character. The landlord provided many services
for tenants and, given the subsistence economy, the system worked reasonably
well. With the evolution of a market economy, however, problems of tenure
and social injustice gave rise to unrest among tenants. In 1948, the Huk
farmer organization (PKM) presented to the Government a program to replace
tenancy by leasehold and for expropriation of large landed estates for
sale to the tenants. In addition, it requested that rural cooperatives and
credit facilities be provided. Not until 1955, though, was action taken, when
the Land Reform Act was passed. Under it, large private agricultural lands
(haciendas) were to be acquired and divided for distribution to the landless,
and agricultural cooperatives were to be established. The Act proved largely
ineffective, however, because of inadequate funding and poor and, sometimes,
corrupt administration.
53.       The most recent and comprehensive attempt to reform the agrarian
structure occurred in 1963 when the Agricultural Land Reform Code was
passed. The principal objective of the legislation was to redistribute
land ownership in a second stage. A further objective was the diversion
of landlord capital in agriculture to industrial development. The Code
created several new agencies, including the Land Authority, in charge of land
acquisitions; the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA), to provide
credit and to finance cooperatives; and the Agricultural Productivity
Commission (APC), to improve farm productivity through extension activities.
The Code has its greatest relevance in the intensive rice and share cropping
areas of Central Luzon, and the main thrust of the tenure reform program
has been in this area.
54.       Land reform areas had been proclaimed in 20 provinces by
May 1971. According to the Act, share-tenancy ceases automatically once
an area is officially proclaimed as a land reform area. However, after
almost eight years, only six of the 20 proclaimed provinces have been
fully converted to leasehold. Some 16%, or almost 50,000 share-tenants, have
made leasehold agreements, but the majority are oral and probably would not
satisfy the criteria specified in the Code. Actually, those share-tenants
(approximately 4x) who have made registered agreements have achieved little
independence since they are forced to rely heavily on their former landlords
for short-term credit and other needs because of the lack of adequate
alternative institutions and facilities. The conversion of leasehold land
to full ownership has been negligible.
55.       It is generally agreed that, unless significant changes are made
in the program, it will not succeed. Corrective action is required in
several facets affecting implementation of the program. For example, coope-
ration between the several land reform agencies should be improved. Currently,
each retains independence and control over its respective resources and
administers other programs in addition to land refonm. Furthermore, the
process of securing title is inefficient and unnecessarily time consuming,
and there is a shortage of legal and technical personnel to effect conversions
and transfers. As has been the case previously, insufficient funds have been
made available to support the program and there is inadequate supervised
farm credit and marketing arrangements.
February 29, 1972



tS 20-                                                                1Z50
-20- _'
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0 0                                           CLIMATE TYPES
R             r r i         p       3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
f77TI st. Type: Two pronounced seasons; dry from
L..zZI ;November to April; wet rest of the year
2od. Type: No dry season with pronounced
maximun rainfall from November to January
'O5° . I 5 3rd. Type: Seasons not very pronounced; relatively
>osCoc  dry from January to May; wet rest of the year
WT~.4th. Type: Rainfall sore or less evenly
/,    , '°' -dist ributed throughout the year.
0         50         100   1 5O          M00
MILES
-~~~ ~0                     100          000         300
-5                                           77V 'c"7)                                                                           KILOMETERS                              15°
Peo Prncs
C6
|  !'                    ~~~~~S u / u   S e a oL
>                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ztmboo                   (           ,......D    3    <      W
Celebes   Sea
OCTOBER 1971                                                                                                                                                      IBRD-3636






PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONTHLY PRECIPITATION ACCORDING TO TYPE OF CLIMATE
FIRST TYPE                                                SECOND TYPE
Inches                                                    Inches
25                                             m.m.       25                                              m.m.
600                                                       600
20                                             500        20                                              500
15                                             400        25                                              400
77        ~300                                                        300
10                                                        10
200                                                       200
15                                            4oo         5                                            loo
0            0                                                         6160
Inches  ~       THIRD TYPE                           InhsFOURTH TYPE
m.M.                                                     M.M.
25                                             600        25                                              600
20                                             500        20                                              500
400         5                                             400
0-0  c 200    300                                                       300
00 ooc co0    200                              X\\\\\\                <200
00  00000000 o- 0 000 0000 00  000c0 000 
0  ~    ~      0000000         000000)oo   0          o~"                                              0
< LL <~ZD   Ln  QwL
IBRD - 6160






ANNEX 1
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Land Utilization
Area in Hectares
('000 hectares)
Rice /1                                                   3,113
Corn                                                      2,420
Citrus                                                       21
Other fruits and nuts                                       380
Root crops                                                  257
Vegetables                                                   51
Beans and peas                                               50
Coffee and Cacao                                             62
Peanuts                                                      37
Others                                                       24
Coconuts                                                  1 ,884
Sugarcane                                                   366
Abaca                                                       173
Tobacco                                                      22
Others                                                        8
Total Area Cultivated                          8,955
Not Cultivated                                   848
Total Agricultural Land                   9,803
/1   Trrigated - 1,345,700 hectares.
November 5, 1971






ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Marketing and Prices
Introduction
1.        The marketing of agricultural products in the Philippines is mainly
in the hands of the private sector. In the case of crops, particularly corn
and palay, Government has given limited support to the formation of Farmer
Cooperative Marketing Associations (FaCoMas) - primarily for landless
farmers - and to their financing and supervision agency, the Agricultural
Credit Administration (ACA). Some 150 FaCoMas now have a combined active
membership of more than 75,000 farmers and a volume of business exceeding
P 34 million annually, principally rice. Sugar, tobacco, and coconut
cooperatives have been rather more successful, ensuring orderly marketing
and securing reasonable prices. Also, there are about 20 viable livestock
producers and marketing cooperatives serving approximately 1,600 members;
many are engaged in pig and poultry production and marketing. Additionally,
a national grain marketing cooperative (GRAMACOP), a federation of 60 rice
FaCoMas, is emerging as a viable institution.
2.        Marketing of livestock and livestock products through formalized
structures, such as livestock cooperatives (para 1), is limited. Most
producers sell to stock traders or middlemen who purchase at the farmgate
on a per head basis and sell either to wholesalers or direct to butchers.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the quality of stock and prices
received by farmers are irregular and often unrelated. Prices do depend,
however, on such factors as distances from ports or other shipping points,
the number of middlemen involved, and the availability of contracted outlets
and storage facilities in the consuming areas.
3.        Conmercial poultry production tends towards vertical integration,
where the hatchery, growing units, and processing plant all exist on the
same farm or under one management. The number of such units in the
Plhilippines is limited, however. Smaller independent broiler and egg
producers may sell direct to the consumer but sell principally to wholesalers.
4.        Mlore than 60% of all meat production in the Philippines is
represented by pig meat, while poultry meat makes up 16%; carabao (carabeef),
16%; and beef, 7%. The demand for pork and poultry meats has gone up
rapidly in the past few years, but beef and carabeef consumption has shown
little increase. These trends, however, probably reflect the traditional



ANNEX 2
Page 2
preferences of the large, rapidly growing low/medium income strata of Lhe
population. Manila is by far the largest market for beef and pork, most of
the supplies coming from the outlying areas and islands.  Total] dlemnand for
beef in the Greater Manila area in 1969 was estimated to be in excess of-
6,000 m tons.  Thiis area is also the principal market for eg,, and broiler
production.
Cattle
5.        Transport.  Under the city of Manila Animal lHealtlh Law, slauglhtered
animals coming from outside cannot be sold in the city unless they lhave been
kept for at least 20 days in cold storage and a reinspection tax has been
paid. 1/ Since the main cattle producing areas are on the islands off
Luzon, particularly Mindanao (Table 1), and the shipment of carcasses to the
city is restricted, animals must be transported live by ship, truck or
rail over large distances for eventual slaughter in the municipal slaughter-
house.  Stock are shipped from ports located as far as 1,500 km away in South
Mindanao. The use made of air transport has been minimal and is confined to
special cuts for selected outlets.
6.        Shipments to Manila are made over regular inter-island lines,
and the poor facilities, the indifferent care and attention given to feeding
and watering the stock, the lack of holding pens at points of embarkation,
the delays, and the long distances involved often cause the animals to
arrive at the port of destination in unsatisfactory condition, with losses
running high from shrinkage. Some animals do not survive the trip at all.
In addition, there is a variety of legal and other fees that must be paid
to local authorities at points in transit.
7.        Backyard cattle fattening operations are the exception in the
generally unsatisfactory situation. Such cattle command generally higher
prices and are traded in two main livestock markets in Luzon - Lemery
(Batangas) and Urdaneta (Pangasinan). The volume of weekly transactions
may approach 400 to 500 head. Animals for these markets come from
Northern Luzon and the islands of Masbate and Mindoro, which are situated
in proximity to Southern Luzon. Following trading, cattle are transported
to Manila by truck or rail.
8.        According to a survey conducted in 1970 by the U.P. College of
Agriculture, total costs of transporting live cattle to Manila from
Mindanao and Visayas Regions are P 110 and P 82 (US$17 and $13) per hiead,
respectively (Table 2). For an animal weighing about 300 kg, the equivalent
costs per kg are P 0.36 and P 0.27. A considerable proportion of the
shipping cost may be attributed to shrinkage, or weight loss, during
transit. This loss is largely from the contents of the alimentary canal
31nd mavy amount to 7% of total liveweight; of course, the loss is not fully
rollcted In the dressed weight, but it may be expected that the carcass
itsell would lose around 4 kg in transit.
1/   This requirement does not extend to the Greater ianila Area.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        Prices.  Information on prices is difficult to obtain and that
which is available is often inaccurate, incomplete and conflicting,
being released by a variety of independent agencies. As mentioned (para 2),
the quality of cattle often has little bearing on the price a farmer
receives. This is especially true for range cattle from the islands.
Examples of farmgate prices per kg for two- to three-year fat steers in
different provinces are: Batangas, P 1.9 to P 2.2 (US$0.30 to $0.34);
Masbate, P 1.8 to P 2.0 (US$0.28 to $0.31); Cagayan de Oro, P 1,3 to P 1.5
(US$0.20 to $0.23); and Davao, P 1.9 to P 2.0 (US$0.30 to $0.31).
10.       Farmgate prices for beef cattle do not appear to have increased
substantially after the floating rate was established early 1970. This
might be due to the lifting of a former carabao slaughter ban and the
resulting increase in the supply of carabeef, with a downwards pressure on
overall "beef" prices (carabao are sold ex-farm at about P 1.00 per kg
liveweight). Even so, cattle prices are expected to increase in the near
future following the general increase in farmgate prices, which has already
affected other livestock products such as poultry and pigs. It is important
that meat grading and quality control be enforced at producer, wholesaler
and retailer levels and that price information be widely disseminated to
producers.
11.       At present, beef retails at P 6 to P 7 (US$0.94 to $1.09) per kg
and is sold largely in supermarkets catering to higher income groups and
to foreigners. (See Table 3 for retail prices of various meats in Manila.)
Retail prices for imported frozen beef have increased after the floating
rate, from P 12 to P 16 per kg to between P 17 and P 26 (US$2.66 and
$4.06) per kg according to cuts, while local frozen beef sells at P 7 to
P 8 (US$1.09 to $1.25) per kg. No frozen beef is sold in the rural areas.
At retail, beef is usually sold mixed with carabeef and the consumer is
often unaware of the difference. Furthermore, a cost differential is
seldom applied to various cuts, and quality standards are generally not
enforced.
Pigs
12.       The distribution of pig production is reasonably even throughout
the main islands, with the exception of Ilocos and Southern and Western
Mindanao (Table 1). The Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates that
about 98% of pigs produced in the country are from herds of less than 50
head. The bulk of pig meat output comes from backyard producers who
fatten purchased weaners or who breed weaners, some of which they sell and
some of which they fatten. The demand for pork has been increasing rapidly
in recent years and Government expects pork production to increase from
335,000 m tons in 1968 to 530,000 m tons by 1974 - almost 60% (para 4).
Southern and Western Mindanao will be well placed to expand pig production
significantly when Government's maize and sorghum programs are implemented.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
13.       Transport.  In 1969/70, about 1 million pigs were slaughtered in
Manila and some 450,000 of these were transported to the city by rail
or ship. The disadvantages of shipping live cattle over long distances
(para 6) are equally applicable to the shipping of live pigs, and again
shrinkage may cause considerable losses.
14.       Shipping costs for live pigs from the islands to Manila are given
in Table 4. They range from P 24 per head from Cebu/Bacolod to P 48.6
(US$7.59) per head from Davao. In dressed weight equivalent, they amount
to between P 0.5 and P 1.1 (US$0.07 and $0.17) per kg.
15.       Prices.  Since 1968, average liveweight prices at the farmgate
have risen considerably and, in December 1970, producers in the vicinity
of Manila were receiving between P 3.5 to P 4.0 per kg. Large-scale pig
producing units generally have accurate up-to-date price information and
seldom sell through middlemen, which gives them a distinct advantage over
the small producer. Furthermore, butchers prefer to deal where large
numbers of pigs are available, weight is more uniform and quality is
more predictable. Because pork consumption fluctuates according to the
time of the year, reaching its peak during national or religious holidays,
shortages may develop, resulting in sudden increases in retail prices.
Average annual retail prices for pork per kg in Manila over the last
several years are given in Table 3. For 1969/70, the average price was
around P 4.55 (US$0.70) per kg. Imports of pork into the Philippines
are negligible.
Poultry
16.       It has been estimated that there are presently almost 100 million
poultry birds in the Philippines, and the projected target under the
Government's Four-Year Development Plan is for over 120 million birds by
1974. While commercial poultry is heavily concentrated around Manila,
other important producing regions are Central Luzon, Southern Tagalog,
Western Visayas, and Southern and Western Mindanao. Feed is shipped to
the producing farms, which are generally located adjacent to the consuming
areas. Actual production of poultry meat (dressed weight) and eggs in
1968 was 88,000 and 95,000 m tons, respectively. For 1974, the correspond-
ing figures are expected to be 121,000 and 137,000 m tons, or increases
of 37% and 44%.
17.       Egg Marketing.  Eggs from smaller commercial farms are usually
sold to a dealer or wholesaler, who then channels to the retailer, but
some eggs are sold directly to the retailer or consumer. Feed dealers
capture a significant proportion of the market by advancing credit on
feed and then adjusting with egg sales, which usually brings the egg
producer a lower price. Large farms either sell all their eggs to a dealer
or have a direct arrangement with the retail outlets, depending mainly on
the distance of the farm to the consuming center.
18.       The transportation of eggs (and poultry) is no real problem.  The
cost of transporting eggs from Batangas to Manila, a distance of just over
100 km, is 2 centavos per egg, or about 8% of the retail price.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
19.       Poultry Marketing.  In the more rural areas, poultry sales
consist mainly of live native birds at the public market, but the trend
in urban areas is towards dressed poultry. Smaller independent farmers
may sell their broilers direct to the consumer or through the wholesaler,
or have an arrangement with retail outlets. Each year, there has been
a significant increase in the number of broilers grown under contract to
integrated or semi-integrated firms. These firms have processing plants
that use either manual labor (which is cheap and plentiful) or modern
technical equipment, which includes facilities for cryovac plastic packaging
and freezing.
20.       Prices.  Egg consumption is highest during the cooler months
of November to February. Retail prices are highest at this time and demand
often remains unfulfilled. At the end of 1970, when feed prices were
abnormally high, due largely to a feed grain shortage, farmgate prices were
P 0.22 (US$0.03) per egg. Broiler producers normally market their birds
at about eight weeks of age and at a liveweight of 1.3 kg.  In December
1970, they received around P 3.50 (US$0.50) per kg liveweight, while egg
producers received P 2.50 (US$0.39) per kg for 18-month old layers. These
heavier birds are often preferred by larger families.
21.       At the same time, the retail price of eggs was P 3.00 (US$0.46)
per dozen, or P0.25 each, and broilers were retailing at P 5.50 (US$0.85)
per kg. It may be expected that the recent increase in demand for poultry
meat will continue, particularly with the rapidly growing popularity of
convenient ready-cooked, take-home chicken and of restaurants specializing
in low cost chicken meals.
Slaughtering Facilities
22.       All provincial capitals and municipalities in the Philippines have
slaughterhouses, although the great majority is still at a primitive level.
The largest slaughterhouse in Manila (Manila Abattoir) is at present killing
an average of 130 head of carabaos and 80 cattle, as well as about 2,000
pigs per day. It is reported to be working at almost full capacity. This
is not true for all slaughterhouses, however, which, in general, are working
at only a fraction of their capacity.
23.       Additional slaughter facilities are necessary in some of the outer
islands to permit shipment of carcasses to Manila instead of live cattle.
Costs of shrinkage, shipping, feed and attention enroute, and transport to
and from the docks could thus be largely reduced or eliminated. A recent
study has estimated savings of up to P 0.64 per kg of pork (dressed weight)
through the marketing of dressed carcasses rather than live animals (Table 5).
This means savings of up to 59% in shipping costs per kg dressed weight.
The study shows that, in the case of beef, savings may be up to P 0.26, or
36% of shipping costs per kg dressed weight (Table 6). Also, carcasses
would weigh more upon arrival in Manila (para 8), resulting in additional
revenue. It is reasonable to assume that a proportion of these savings
and revenue gains would be passed on to producers in the form of higher
prices for their stock.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Conclusions
24.       The livestock production program has been given top priority in
Government's Four-Year Agricultural Development Plan and is broadly designed
to help improve protein nutrition and, at the same time, to replace the
greater part of imports of meat and meat products by 1975. While this
dual objective is optimistic, Government and the private sector are taking
action to streamline the marketing of poultry and livestock products. This
action may be classified into three principal areas: improved marketing
intelligence; removal of legal and illegal restraints in trading; and
improving the inefficient and inadequate marketing organizations and
facilities.
25.       There is some evidence that regulations forcing the slaughter of
cattle in the city of Manila will be changed. It should be noted, however,
that the regulation does not affect meat for sale in the Greater Manila
area where at least 35 supermarkets are already operating and, as of June
1971, were selling 43 tons and 20 tons per week of beef and pork, respec-
tively. Supermarkets and other large retail stores have the advantage of
cold storage facilities and evidence suggests they could sell considerably
more good quality fresh beef and pork if it were available on an assured
regular basis. Restaurants, cafeterias and hospitals constitute further
outlets for increased supplies of fresh (chilled) beef and pork.
26.       In summary, the marketing of poultry meat and eggs by large
integrated production units tends to be modern, efficient and satisfactory.
The same may be said for large pig producing units in those areas near
Manila. Smaller farmers in both cases are being forced to adopt improved
standards and techniques of production whenever they come into direct
competition with the larger operators because public demand for better
quality products at reasonable prices is increasing. Also, they are joining
marketing cooperatives (para 1). Where pork and beef are supplied from
the outlying islands, marketing is more problematic, particularly where
animals must be shipped live to Manila for slaughter rather than being
slaughtered and processed near the sources of supply. The present
marketing system leads to irregular and uncertain prices to producers and
it is important the Government seriously attempt to resolve the various
anomalies if it hopes to satisfy the objectives of its agricultural develop-
ment program.
March 3, 1972



ANNEX 2
Tab le 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Population by Kind and by Region
As of January 1, 1969
REGION              Carabao       Cattle      Horse       Hog         Goat
Philippines          4,368,700    1,628,900   295,300   6,349,700  698,300
Ilocos                 130,400       73,200      9,500     108,500   33,600
Cagayan Valley         422,700      104,500    19,400      623,100   14,300
Central Luzon          523,700      210,100    41,400      724,500  161,900
Southern Tagalog       364,400      208,600    62,000      775,600   57,600
Bicol                  501,700      149,800    33,400      700,100   38,300
Eastern Visayas        579,400      120,400    29,800   1,074,300   37,900
Western Visayas        623,200      149,200    31,900      734,300  118,900
Northern and
Eastern Mindanao    307,000       176,400    20,900   1,064,700   42,800
Southern and
Western Mindanao    916,200       436,700    47,000      544,600  193,000
Source:  Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Bureau of Agricultural
Economics.
December 6, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Costs of Transport of Live Cattle to
Manila from Mindanao and Visayas Region
(Pesos per head)
Mindanao          V Visayas Regio /
Transport to dock            10.09                10.00O
Loading                       3.39                 0.52
Ship Transport              39.71                 21.48
Feed en route                3.23                  1.74
Conveyance                    3.94                 2.22
Unloading                    0.83                  1.26
Delivery                     4.14                  2.52
Fees, permits                 7.15                 4.26
Shrinkage                   37.19                 38.26
Total Cost            109.67 (US$17.13)    82.26 (US$12.85)
Shipping Cost per kg - Manila
Liveweight                   0.36                  0.34
Dressed weight               0.72                  0.67
/1   Live animals of 327 kg ex-farm and 304 kg in Manila
/2   Live animals of 263 kg ex-farm and 244 kg in Manila
October 6, 1971



ANNEX 2
Tabl 3 
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Annual Retail Prices for Livestock Products
Per Kg in Manila 1/
Leghorn &
Year      Beef /1  Pork  /2  Chicken  /3  Corned Beef /4  Natives    Ducks
1960      3.24      2.26         2,75            1.04          1.46       1.93
1961      3.30      2.35         2.79            1.20          1.49       1.82
1962      3.40      1.76         3.06            1.44          1.50       2.12
1963      4.41      3.17         3.50            1.49          1.67       2.20
1964      4.41      3.73         3.69            1.61          1.75       2.42
1965      4.58      3.76         3.79            1.87          1.84       2.61
1966      4.85      4.20         4.18            1.92          1.94       2.91
1967      4.96      4.27         4.37            1.96          1.94       2.91
1968      5.18      4.40         4.76            2.23          1.91       2.97
1969      5.18      4.41         4.79            2.30          1.86       2.93
Jan/Sept.
1970      5.59      4.74         5.12            2.86          2.26       3.32
/1   Average first and second class.
/2   Pure meat and meat with bones.
/3   Per head.
/4   Imported - per 12 oz. can (average Libby's and Hereford).
/5   Per kg.
1/   Source:  Central Bank.
October 6, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ShippinR Costs for HoR8 from Outlying Islands to Manila
------------------Mindanao-----------------
Cagayan               General    Cebu -        Iloilo -
Cotabato /1  de Oro /2  Davao /3  Santos /4  Bacalod /5  Masbate  /2
--------------------------P per hog-----------------------------
Transport
to Highway             3.54        2.00
to Corral
or Plant               6.13        0.85                                0.57
to Dock    1.38        0.42        0.76       1.10       1.34          0.91
Tong         0.08                    0.16       0.17                     0.02
Loading       1.14       1.88        0.42       0.98        0.50         0.64
Ship Trans-
port      10.58        6.14       10.74      10.58       5.14          4.44
Feed
Enroute    1.81        1.11        2.22       6.25        1.27         0.17
Convoy       0.53        0.94        1.19       1.34       0.72          0.54
Unloading    0.50        0.66        0.29       0.40       0.50          0.50
Delivery     0.50        0.70        1.07       1.48       0.67          0.85
Fees,
Permits    0.70        1.16        0.69       0.29       0.29          1.40
Shrinkage- 11.82        10.98       28.24      14.56       13.61        10.53
Total  29.04       33.66       48.63      37.15      24.04         20.57
---------------------------P/kg - Manila---------------------------
Liveweight   0.44        0.49        0.76       0.43       0.32          0.39
Dressed
weight     0.63        0.70        1.09       0.62       0.46          0.55
/1   Live hog:  73 kg at farm, 66 kg in Manila.  Dressed weight:  46.2 kg.
/2   Live hog:  75 kg at farm, 69 kg in Manila.  Dressed weight:  44.3 kg.
/3   Live hog:  80 kg at farm, 64 kg in Manila.  Dressed weight:  44.8 kg.
/4   Live hog:  91 kg at farm, 86 kg in Manila.  Dressed weight:  60.2 kg.
/5   Live hog:  79 kg at farm, 74 kg in Manila.  Dressed weight:  51.8 kg.
76   Live hog:  58 kg at farm, 53 kg in Manila.  Dressed weight:  37.1 kg.
T7   Probably overestimated.
Source:  Alunan, J.A. and Darrah, L.B., "Some Legal and Economic Aspects
of Livestock Marketing"; Staff Paper Series (Survey of 18 Hog
Shippers), Department of Agricultural Economics, U.P.C.A. October
1970.
October 6, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Costs in Shipping Live Hogs and
Savings Through Shipping Carcasses
Peso Cost per Kg                               Increased
Dressed Weight             Savings            Weight of
Live                      Pesos/                Carcasses
Location            hogs       Carcasses      I                         Kg
Davao                1.09        0.45          0.64        59          7.7
General Santos      0.62         0.36          0.26        42          1.8
Cotabato            0.63         0.36          0.27        43          2.8
Cagayan de Oro      0.70         0.45          0.25        36          2.1
Cebu - Bacolod      0.46         0.31          0.15        33          1.4
Iloilo - Masbate    0.55         0.30          0.25        45          1.6
Source:  Alunan, J. A., Collado, G.M., and Darrah, L. B., "Feasibility of a
Modern Livestock Processing Plant in General Santos City," Staff
Papers Series, No. 109, Department of Agricultural Economics, U.P.C.A.
August, 1970.
October 6, 1971



ANNEX 2
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
14AVESTOCRVJ,opK p trtquv
Summary of Costs in Shipping Live Cattle and
Savings_Through Shipping Carcasses
Peso Cost per kg                            Increased
Dressed Weight            Savings        Weight
Live                     Pesos/      Per    Carcasses
Location                  cattle    carcasses        KX                  (g)
Mindanao:
with Weight Data      0.72         0.46        0.26         36       4.3
Visayas:
with Weight Data      0.67         0.41        0.26         39       4.0
Source: Alunan, J. A., Collado, G. M., and Darrah, L. B., "Feasibility of a
Modern Livestock Processing Plant in General Santos City," Staff
Papers Series, No. 1 9, Department of Agricultural Economics,
U. P. C. A. August, 1970.
October 6, 1971



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
1.        Credit for the agricultural sector is provided by a diversity of
institutional entities, most important among these being Government and
semi-Government capitalized institutions, namely; Philippines National
Bank (PNB), Rural Banks, and the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP)
and associated Private Development Banks (PDBs). In aggregate, these banks
account for 65% of average annual rural credits granted. The other 35% is
provided by private commercial banks (Table 1).
2.        Agriculture, which produces about 35% of the GNP, receives 20 co
25% of the total credit made available to the private sector. Agricultural
credit has been increasing at about the same rate as that for industry,
which receives around 30% of the total.
3.        PNB is the largest commercial bank in the Philippines with an
extensive countrywide network. It is the most important source of production
credit, tending to service the commercial size farms and plantations
for sugarcane and coconuts. It is also important in financing palay
(paddy rice) and corn through credit lines extended to NFAC and DBP for
ultimate distribution to the producer.
4.        Most of the credit granted by the commercial private (40
chartered) banks is to agro-industry and commercial trade and, is essentially
short-term. Through continuous extensions and renewals, borrowers are
enabled to utilize the credits for capital investments as well as for working
capital.
5.        The broad field of small agricultural production and commodity
credits is covered by a system of rural banks, private development banks,
and, in a small way, the Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA).
6.        The Rural Banking system is well known to IBRD, being the inter-
mediary lending channel of two loans: Loan 432-PH, US$5 million in 1965,
and Loan 607-PlI, US$12.5 million in 1969. Except for the medium- to long-
term financing under these two projects, the Rural Banks' loan portfolio is
principally short-term production credit. The average size of loans today is
about P 13,000 (US$1,900). Eligible borrowers may not own or cultivate
more than 50 ha, or have more than P 50,000 capital investment in a rural
industry. The usual size of farming operations financed is 5 to 10 ha.
Funds are available under the Second Rural Credit Project (Loan 607-PH) to
finance development of poultry and pig farms. Until recently, the Project
as a whole moved slowly due to a combination of factors. Contributing



ANNEX 3
Page 2
factors, have been the application, early in 1970, of a floating exchange
rate that temporarily reduced the profit incentive to the producer; thle
occurrence of abnormal typhoons that caused serious property damage as
well as dislocation of feed grain supplies; and the financial inability of
the banks and potential sub-borrowers to respectively contr bute 10% of
Project costs. The latter requirements were recently modlified to reduce the
contributions by the bonus and farmers.
7.        Of increasing importance as a source of credit to the medium-size
agricultural producer is the private development banking system. The
primary objective of these banks is to extend medium- and lonLg-term credit
for the development of agriculture and small industry, and, by Charter, DBP
has a mandate to provide capital and technical assistance to them. See
Annex 17, paras 36 to 38 for further discussion of the private development
banking system.
8.        Operating under the Land Reform Code (1963) as an independent
Government institution, ACA has the primary responsibility o' financing the
landless farmer. It finances production and marketing cooperatives (FACO0MAS)
but, where no usable cooperative exists, it makes direct loans to farmers in
declared Land Reform Districts in accordance with national policy to increase
the production of food grains (rice and corn). Credits were made available
to about 56,000 farmers in FY 1970-71, but this covered only about 10% of
the country's tenant farmers; average size of loan was around P 800
(US$125). Since the mid-1950's, USAID has given continuous support to rural
credit and cooperatives for the small producers through extensive financial,
commodity and technical assistance programs. Currently, it has granted a
credit line on soft terms to ACA of P 40 million (the peso funds are generated
from US Public Law 480 commodity import sales). Funds are being utilized to
support a Wholesale Loan Program in 15 FACOMAS for short-term production
purposes and to assist a national grains marketing cooperative (GRAMACOP),
an affiliation of 60 FACOMAS with about 65,000 active farmer members. In
summary, ACA is probably reaching only about 15% of the credit needs of
the unpropertied farmers. Therefore, they seek credit from various private
sources such as neighborhood merchants, rice-millers, landlords and relatives,
usually paying several times the conventional rates for credit.
9.        Generally, interest rates for lending, rediscounting and deposits,
as well as reserve requirements, are regulated by the Monetary Board. Commer-
cial private banks charge 12 to 14%, and, when discounted in advance together
with other charges, the real cost is several points higher. DBP, PDB's and
the Rural Banks charge 12% per annum, plus an additional 2 to 5% penalty on
past due balances. Working capital loans are 12%, usually discounted in
advance making the effective rate about 14%. ACA charges 8% interest (fixed
by law) on its loans. The Private Development Corporation of the Philippines,
to which three Bank loans have been made, charges 11%, plus 1.75% commitment
fee per annum on undisbursed funds from foreign loan sources. Local currency
loan bears 12% interest rates. Its loans are mainly industrial.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
10.       The Central Bank provides an important amount of revolving credit
to banks through rediscounts of loans for the production of importation of
inputs for, and distribution of basic agricultural products. It may, rediscount
80% of the face value of the credit paper not exceeding 270 days maturity
of the following variable interest rates:
Basic rate on commercial papers,
loans and advances                      -8%
Corn and rice production,
importation and distribution            -4%
Export transactions                       -5.75%
Rural Banks in operation:
Less than two years                     -2%
Over two years                          -3%
11.       Interest rates paid for deposits range from 6 to 8% per annum,
depending on the time period.
March 3, 1972






PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Loans Granted and Outstanding to Agriculture
0                                           by Financial Institutions, 1965-70
o                                                       (P million)
*1
la                                                                           Develop-      Philippine         Other
H      A.  Granted by                            1/        2'     Rural        ment         National       Commercial
Year                Total      ACLF-     ACA-       Banks      Banks           Bank            Banks
H 
1965                1,1430       _         10        216          62            619              523
1966                1,616        -         16        247          91            666              596
1967                2,o65       17         32        313 168                    816              735
1968                2,217       15          30       363        159             858              792
1969                 2,261       8          24       408        115             903              803
1970                1,798        6          45       497        100             553              597
B. Outstanding at
Eind of Period
1965                1,595        -          37       167         293            570               458
1966                a,681        -          88       199         317            630               448
1967                1,933       n.a.        97       259         375            752               450
1968                2,318       15        107        303         430            858              605
1969                 2,502      17        107        326         475             923              655
1970                 2,588      18        119        385         490             900              690
1/  Agriculture Guaranty Loan Fund                                                                                        p 
2/  '-gricultural Credit Administration
Source:  IBRD Lconomic Report £AP-21, Statistical Appendix, Table 7.3                                                     H
and mission






ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVEIMPMEN!T PROJ=T
Model - Integrated  joconut/Beef Cattle Fattening - 5 ha
Herd Projection
Before        -------&id of Year-----
Development      1     2     3      4     5-20
Herd Composition
Feeder Cattle 1 - 2 yre ..O           -            -     3      7     8      8
Purchases
Feeder Cattle 1 - 2 yrs               -            -     3      7     8       8
Nobrtality
Feeder 3attle 1 - 2 yrs .,.0...       -            -     -      -     -       -
Sales
Feeder Cattle 1 - 2 yrs                         -  -     -      3     7      8
Teclinical Coefficients
Purchase Wdeight - kg/head .oo.o      -            -   150   150   150    150
Selling Weight - kg/head0.0...        -            -   300   300   300    300
Daily Weight Gain -grams/head..              -         400   400   400    400
Animal units/hao.......... o *...     -            -   .6    .14   1.6    1.6
October 5, 1971



PHILIPPINES
CD
o                                               ITVBSTOOK DEVEIPNENT PROJECT
CD
H                                 j'bMdel - Integrated Coconut/Beef Cattle Fattening - 5 ha
H                                                   Investment Projection
~-O
H                                                             (p)
INVESTMNT                                  ---m3ar 1----   ---Year 2----  --- Year 3----   ---Year 4
Unit Niber  Total  Nmaber  Total  Number  Total  Number  Total   Total   Total
Fixed                      Units  Cost  Units   Cost   Units   Coat   Units   Cost   Units   Cost  Units-  Cost
Coconut Cultivation and
Pasture Bstablishment   ha    256       5   1,280       -               -                       -         5   1,280
Drainage  1/               n       1  1,000   1,000       500    500      500    500      -       -     2,000   2,000
Copra Drier                no    775    -        -          1    775      -      -                -         1     775
Fencing                    m    1r.06    -       -        -      -      1,100  1,166       -      -    1,100   1,166
Lfscellaneous 10%                                228             127             167             _                522
Sub-total                                     15 L02                         1.833              _5743
Working Capital
Feeder Steers  2/          no    240    -        _          3    720        4    960       1     240        8   1,920
Animl Health           per head 2.60    -        -          3      8        4     10      1        3        8      21
Fertiliser                 kg   0.50  1,000      500        -      -      -       -        -      -     11900     500
Niscelaneson  10%                                 50              73               97             24               244
Sub-total                                      550             801           1.067             267            2,685
Total Invetu'nt                           3Q058           2,203           2,0               267            81428      |
1/ It is assumed that, on average, each farm would drain 2 ha.
2/ Feeder steers of 150 kg liveweight at P1.60/kg.



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Integrated Coconut/Cattle Fattening - 5 ha
Sales and Operating Expense Pro lection
C!)
Before            ------------------------------------------------------------Year------             ------------------------------------
SALES                                           Development            1           2            3           4            5           6            7            8           9            10            11-20
Copra     ../                                    3,375           3,375        4,050       4,500        4,950        5,400       5,850       6,300        6,750        7,200         7,200          7,200
Catt le-7: .....................................   -                -           -         1,485        3,465        3,960       3,960        3,960       3,960        3,960         3,960          3,960
Total Sales                            3,375            3,375        4,050        5,985       8,415        9,360       9,810       10,260      10,710       11,160        11,160         11,160
OPERATING EXPENSES
Labor-
Owner - Copra ....................,.         1,425            1,425        1,425       1,425        1,425        1,425       1,425        1,425       1,425        1,425         1,425          1,425
Employees - Copra ................             712              712          712          712         712          712         712          712          712         712           712            712
sub-total                              2,137            2,137        2,137        2,137       2,137        2,137       2,137        2,137        2,137       2,137         2,137          2,137
Animal Health-/ .......................S -                          -                          8           18          21           21          21           21           21            21             21
Cultivation5 .......... ................ .                          -           -            -           -            -           -            -            -            -            500            -
Fertilizer6/ ..........................                             -      -    5"           500         500          500         500          500          500         500           500            500
Purchases - Feeder Cattle .............            -                -           -            720       i,680        1,920       1,920        1,920        1,920       1,920         1,920          1,920
Sub-total                              2,137             2,137       2,637        3,3<5       4,335        4,578       4,578        4,578        4,578       4,578         5,078          4,578
Miscellaneous 10%                                  213              213                      336   4~33               457          457         457          457          457           507            457
Total operating Expenses                2,350            2,350       7,30<        3,701       4,758        5,Q35       5,035        5,035        5,035        5,035        5,585          5,035
1/ Copra selling price PO.90/kg.
2/  cattle butying price is P240.00/head (150 kg liveweight at P1.60/kg) and selling price is P495.00/head (300 kg at P1.65/kg).
3/  Owner works 300 days/year at P4.75/day (minimum wage) and employees 150 days at P4.75/day (minimum wage).
4/ Animal health at P2.60/animal/year.
5/ Subsoiling and discing at P100.00/ha.
6/ P0.50/kg.



5,                                                                                                                            PHILIPPPIES
'1                                                                                                                  ITVE9TOCK DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
H                                                                                                       Model - Integrated Coconut/Cattle Fattening - 5 hs
F..                                                                                       F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inancial Projections
(,e'00)
Before-                                           ------- -- Year.------------------Year-
D-eve1open-t                          2             3            4                                                                   9 6            08  _  i      11-20
CASH IFIOW:
1.    nual Sale . ...................................... .            3.38                3.38          4.05         5.99          8.42          9.36          9.81       10.26         10.71         11.16          ii.16           11.16
2. Producers Contribution               . . .-                                             -             -             -            -             -
3. Long-ters Lon   _              .        .        .3.06                                               2.20         2.90          0.27           -             -           -             -             -
4.  Short-tern Financial Rsource-:  9/
a.  Last Year'e Cash Balance            .         .-                                 -            -             -            1.12         2.50          1.47        2.34          2.09          2.09           2,60            2.09
b.  Shert-term  Loans.                          .0.12                               0.12         0.37          0.89          0.73           -            o.62         -             - _                         - 1
Total E-ipeoted Cash Inflow.                               3.0                 6.56          6.62          9.78         io.54        al.86         11.90       12.60     i2.80             13.25          13.76           13.25
CASH OUTFLOW:
1.  Inveatmeats:
a.  Prodocer's Contribution ........-...-.-.-.-.-...
b. Long-tern Loan                  .           .-                                   3.06         2.20          2.90          0.27
2.  Operating Costa .     '.. '.. '.  -'.'.''--.  ''.. .. '''''       2.35                2.35          2.90          3.70         4.77          5.o4          5.04        5.04          5.04          5.04           5.59            5.04
3. Debt Service:
a.  Of Short-tern Loans  2         0      .0.14 .                               1     l      0    .i4    0      .42          1.01         o.83            -         0.71                          -                      -
b.  Of Long-tern Loon   3          .       .-                                        -           U.32          0.63          0.98          3.51          3.51        3.51           -             -              -               -
4.  Availeble for Cash Withdroalo   / ...................               0 1    ,         . 1.01         1.01          1.01         1.01          1.01          1.01        1.05          1.50          2.30           2,00            2.00
fotal ESpeoted Caeh Outflo .3.50                                               6.&6          6.62          8.66          8.o4        10.39          9.56       10.51          6.54          7.04           7.59            7.04
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR END:                                                -                   -            -             1.12          2.50         L.47          2.34         .09          6.26          6.21           6.17            6.21
CUMULATII  INCREMENTAL HERID VALUE:                                      _                    _           0.72          1.68          1.9e         1.92          1.92        1.92         1.52           1.92           1.92            1.92
Short-tern financial res -urce  for coconuta are assu- ed to ecual at least 5% of coco-ut                                                                                                                                                                 24,
operating  cts, and foe cattle 100% of cattle opccatin0 costs.
9   At 14% p.a.
9' At 12% p.a. on the o-tatding balance.  Total tern of seven years includiag four yearn
of grace.
/  Represente the beet estimate Of likely cash vithdrawals in living ond other -openoco.  Would be at about sane level as before Development,
rising after long-ter loan ia repaid.



ANNE 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Integrated Coconut/Cattle Breeding/Fattening - 15 ha
Herd Projection
Before        -------------End of Year-----------------
Development    1       2      3     h      5      6       7-20
Herd Composition
Bulls .....*e.q.*...*-...                 -          1      1      1     1      1      1         1
Breeding Cows plus Replacements..         -         10    14    15    15    15    15            15
Calves Weaneda n....o.ooe......o-         -          -      7    11    12    12    12           12
Heifers 1-2 yrs (Surplus) .... ..         -                        -     3      2      3         3
Steers 1-2 yrs                            -          -      -      h     5      6      6         6
Total Animals                  _         11    22    31    36    36    37            37
1/                 -=                           = =
Total Animal Units-            -         11    15    20      2L    2k    25          25
Purchases
Bulls.. * .........-                       1     -      -      1      -     -         -
Mated Heifers ......-                               10      5      -      -     -      -         -
Total Purchases                -         11      5      -     1      -      -         -
=   5   =  =  = 2     
Mortalitv
Bulls-@@-Xo**-.e ............... - _       
Breeding Cows plus Replacements           -          -      1      1      -     1      1         1
Heifers 1-2 yrs.o-    -  -  -  - 1.  -    -
Steers 1-2 vrs. ..                        -          -      -      -     1      -      -         -
Total Mortality                -          -      1     1      1      2      1         1
Sales
Cull Bulls ........... o . ..             -          -      -      -     1      -      -         -
Cull Cowsoo..... oo .....   ..-...-                  -      -      1     2      2      2         2
Heifers 2-3 yrs (Surplus).          -                       - -    --  -        3      2         3
Steers 2-3 yrs ...........o...            -          -      -      -     4      5      6         6
Total Sales                    -          -      -     1      7    10    10          11
-- ~        =  =      =     =       =     2=
Technical Coefficients
Calves Weaned - %-- . ......-                        -    70    80    80    80    80            80
Mortality Adult - %                       -           -     3      3      3     6      3         3
Cow Culling Rate -%.                      -          -   -   7  13  13  13   13
Carrying Capacity AUa        ha           -         .7   1.0   1.3   1.6   1.6   I.7           1.7
Total Carrying Capacity - AU              -         11    15    20      24    24    25          25
1/  An animal unit is any animal over 1 year old.
October 6, 1971



PHILIPPINES
(D
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Integrated Coconut/Cattle Breeding/Fattening - 15 ha
0                                                                         Investment Projection
H                                                                                   (P)
INVESTMENT ITEMS
-------Year 1 -----       -------Year 2  --          ______Year 3  .-- _
Number        Total        Number         Total       Number         Total        Total        Total
Fixed:                     Unit       Unit Cost        Units          Cost        Units          Cost         Units          Cost        Units        Cost
New Fences                 m           1.06          1,950          2,067         600           636           -             _          2,550        2,703
Calf Barn and Corral      no           1,000           -             -              1         1,000           -            -           1,000        1,000
Water Facilities          no           1,400             1          1,400          -            -             -            -           1,400        1,400
Pasture Establishment    ha              388            15          5,820          -            -                                         15        5,820
Rebuild Copra Drier                    1,000           .             _             -            -               1         1,000            1        1,000
Mated Heifers             no             600            10          6,ooo            5        3,000           -             -             15        9,QQO
Bulls                     no           1,200             1          1,200          -            -             -            -               1        1,200
Miscellaneous - 10%                                                 1.649                       464                          100                    2,213
18,136                     5,100                       1,100                    24,336
Working Capital:
Fertilizer                kg             0.50        6,ooo          3,000       6,ooo         3,000         6,ooo          3,000      18,000        9,000
Labor                  man/yr                            1            360            1          420             1            480            3       1,260
Animal Health             AU              9.40          11            103           15          141            19            178           45         422
Concentrate Feed          AU             3.00           11             33           15           45            19             57           45         135
Miscellaneous - 10%                                                   35                        361                          371                    1,082
Sub-total                                                      3,846                     3,967                                                11,899
Total Investment                                                   21,982                      ,07                           18636,235



IPHILIPPINfS
LEVESTOCK DEVELOP' ENT PROJECT
(D
H                                                                               Model * Iotagratog Cowanut/Cattle Breading/Fattening - 15 ha
Sales and Operat-   ,xpenses Projection
Before                -------------------------------------Y-------------------     Year --------------------------------------------
SALES                                                 Devalopnt                   1            2            3           4             5            6            7            8            9            10             11-20
Copr -. .13,500                                                            13,500       14,175       14,850       16,200       17,550       18,900        20,250       21,600       22,950       24,300          24,308
Cattle_'
Cull Bulls ............,.,.,.                      -                      -            -            -           1,000         -            -            -            -             -            - _
Cull COws ........,.-.-                                                                -             600        1,200        1,200        1,200        1,200        1,200        1,200         1,200          1,200
Surplus Heifers ................ I                                                       ......-                 -           2,100        1,400        2,100        2,100        2.100        2,100           2,100
Steers (2-3 years) ...................-                                                - -                      2,800        3,500        4,200        4,200        4,200        4,200        4,200           4,200
Sub-total                                                                      -             600        5,000        6,800        6,800        7,500        7,500        7,500        7,500           7,500
Total Sales                              13,500                 13,500       14,175       15,450       21,200       24,350       25,700       27,750       29,100       30,450       31,800          31,800
OPERATING EXPENSES
Copra
Labor-
Owner .................                           1,425                  1,425        1,425        1,425        1,425        1,425        1,425         1,425        1,425        1,425        1,425           1,425
Employees ................... 2,137                                     2,137        2,137        2,137        2,137        2,137        2,362        2,362         2,362        2,362        2,362           2,362
Fertilizer- .       ...     . ....... ,                                        -            -             - _        u)0         3, 75        3,375        3,750        3,750        3,750        3,750           3,750
Cultivatio:   . ........    ...............                                                                                                                             _      ...  -
24k-crotl                                 *,'5                   ,,S'         3<           5 ,556       2,5o3        6,C'37       7,162        7,537        7,537         77,537       9,037          7,537
Cat tle
Labor          .514i                                                                                                               600          600          600           600          60o          600             600
Anime Tr althn/  ..............,  ........                                                                            225          225          235          235           235          235          235            235
Conacentrate Feeds .........................                                                                           72           72            75           75           75           75           75              75
,ub-i,ot.a I                                                                    -             -             -37        89(           910          910          910          910          910             91O
Miscellaneous 107,                                       356                   356          356          356          739           783          807          844          844          844          994             844
Total Operating Expenses                  3918                   3,918        3,918        3,915        8,138        8,617        8,879        9,291         9,291        9,291       10,941           9,291
1/  Copra sold at P0.90/kg
2/  Cull bulls sold at Pl,000.00/head; Cull cows at F600.00/head and surplus heifers and steers (2-3 years) at P700.00/head.
3/  Owner works 300 days at P4.75/day (minimum wage); 3 employees for 150 days each at P4.75/day (minimum wage); and cattle require an additional part-time employee at F50.00/month.
4/  Fertilizer costs P0.50/kg.
5/  SubsoiIsin, ard discing at P100,'ha.
6/  Includes dipping, medicirnes, drenchirn' aril rlinerai 2'.4:'   .4C'-  /sr
( X
;.W b



PHILlPiPSIK2
LIVESTOCK DEVELOP3ENT PROJFCr1
el                                                                  .v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odel - Inltegrated Cooonut/Cattle Breeding/Fnttentng - 15 ha
SS                                                                                  F;r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lanocial Projootior.
(pIs 000 )
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
H4                                                                         BeforeY ---------------------------------------------------------------  year ----------------------------------____________________________
Developme-t            1             2              3             4           5             6            7             8            9             10            11-20
CASH TNFLOW:
1.  A-oal Sales..                             .                   13.50              13.50        14.i8          15.45         21.20        24.35         25,70        27.75        29.10         30.45        31.80            31.80
2.  Prdocere' Contribution             .          .                  -                2.20         0.90           0.52                        -             -            -            -             -             -
3. Lorg-term    an .......             .............                 -               19.78         8.16           4.67           -            -             -            -            -             -             -
4.  Short-t-r  Fin.enielRso1      es
a.  Last Year' Cash Ballare                                  0,20              0.20          0.20           0.20          1.20         1.28          1.31        1.33         1.33          1.33          1.50             1.33
b. Sh-rt-tera L..-                                                               -            -              -             -            -             -            -            -             -             -La
5. Other Besooreess
a.  Lsat Yeara Caah Baela.        .                           -                1.38          4.o6           5.43          6.61         4.54          5.19        6.94        10.35
b. Short-te-m La .-                                                              -             -.........-......
Total Rxspected Canh Inoflo.                            13.70             37.06         27.50          26.27         29.01       30.17         32.20        36.02        40.78         31.78         33.30           33.13
CASH OUTFLOW:
1.  In-eata-te:
a.  Pro ucer' Co       nrtiboti..                             -                0.20          0.90           0.52           -            -              -           -                  -             -               -
b. Lang-term La..                                             -               19.78          8.16           4.67           -            -              -           -            -             -             -
2. Operating Casts Excluive of Loan Interest                       3.92              3.92          3.92          3.92          8.14         8.62          8.88         9.29         9.29          9.29         13.94            9.29
3. Debt Servie e_.                                                                     -            2.37           3.35         9.0          9.25          9.05         9.05         9.05           -             -       9
4. Available for Cash W6thirawals                                   6.                6.oD         5.00           6.SSo         6.oo         6.20          6.oo         6.oo         6.oo          7.00          7.00            8.00
Total Expected Cesh 0otf1Ow .............4..92                            31.90         21.35          18.46         23.19       23.67         23.93        24.34        24.34         16.29         17.94            17.29
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR END:                                             3.78              5.16          6.it           7.81          5.82        6.50          8.17 ti.68               16.44         15.49         i.36            15.84
CUMULAVIVE INCRE3Ek 5AL HERD VALUE:                                    -                7.20         11.00          15.2         18.2         18.2          18.9         18.9         18.9          18.9          18.9            18.s
i/  A nual ahort-tre.  oredit requirements for  -ocomots are aesomed to equa1   atf oper-ting  -oets (exclosive of loam interest), and ior onttle 100% of operating  -osts (exolusive of lean interest).
2/ Eight year loan incloding three fears of gra-e at t2t iatereot p.a.
j/   epreaento. the beat eatiate of likhely  .s.h w t Idraoal  for living and other e-pen-os. Would be about same level as before developnent, rising after long-team loan i  repaid.



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOB{ENT PROJECT
(4-
Ni                                                   Model - Hill Beef Cattle Ranch - 600 ha
Herd Projection
'0
------------------------_------------End of Ranch Year-------------------------------
Before
Development           1        2         3         4          5         6         7         8-20
Herd Composition
Bulls .............................           6               6        11        14        17        20        24        24         24
Breeding Cows and Replacements ....        200              200       230       280       350       375       400       400        400
Calves Weaned ........ ............        100              100       100       126       168       228       281       300        300
Total Animals                            306              306       341       420       535       623       705       724        724
1/                                G                                                                ___ ==4
Total AU-                                206              206       241       294       367       395       42h       424        424
Purchases
Bulls .............................-                                    5         3         3         6          8        4           5
Heifers 1-2 yrs ...................-                                   16        41        57        18                  -
Total Purchases                                            -         21        44        60        24         8         4          5
Mortality
Bulls .............................                                              -         -         -           1       -            1
Breeding Cows and Replacements                8               8         8        10        12        11        12        12         12
Calves Weaned            ...........                                             -         -          -         -         -          -
Total Mortality                             8               8         8        10        12        11        13        12         13
=               =         =          -          .        a         5        .           -_  
Sales
Cull Bulls ........................          -               -         -         -          -          3         3         4          4
Cull Cows .......--.-.-..........            30              30        20        23        28         53        57        60         60
Veaners .....,.62 ............                               62        58        58         73       97       134       209         228
Total Sales                                92              92        78        81       101       153       194       273        292
=                a       .           a      ,           -       ,           -     .
Technical Coefficients
P      Plre~ lknrd -  ....................                   5c        50        55        60        65        75        75         7
Fortalit   Adult % ................          4                4        4          4         4         3         3         3          3
Cull Rate Breeders % .............         15               15        10        10        10        15         15        15         15
Cull Rate Heifer % ...............          15              15        15        15        15        15         15        15         15
AU/ha ..                                   .34             .34    .40    .49    .61    .66    .71    .71                           .71
Total Carrving Capacity - AU's             206             206       241       294       367       395        424       424        424
1/  Animal unit is any animal over one year old.
DI



0
PHILIPPINES
C-'                                                                                LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMlNlT PROJECT
Model - Hill Beef Cattle Ranch - 600 ha
Investment Projection
(p)
INVESU4ENT ITEMS                                                     ------Year 1----- -        -----Year P -----        ------Year 3 -----      ------Year  ----_-
Number       Total       Number        Total       Number       Total      Number       Total       Total       Total
Fixed:                                  Unit       Unit Cost       Units         Cost        Units        Cost         Units       Cost        Units        Cost        Units       Cost
New Fences                            m             1.25         3,500         4,375       1,750        2,186        1,750       2,188         -            -         7,000       8,751
Repair Old Fences                     m             0.30         2,500           750       5,000        1,500        2,500         750         -            -        10,000       3,0DO
Coral and Calf Barn                  no            4,500             1         4,500         -            -            -           -           -            -             1       4,500
Sprayer/Motor 3]                     no            2,000             1         2,000         -            -                        -           -            -             1       2,000
Water Facilities                     no            5,000             1/4       1,250           1/4       1,250           1/2     2,500         -            -             1       5,000
Saddles                              Iln             300             1           300           2          600                      -           -            -             3         9DO
Truck - 1 Ton                        no           10,000             1        10,000         -            -      -                 -           -            -             1      10,000
Rsployees Housing  2                 no            1,500             1         1,500         -             -             1       1,500         -            -             2       3,000
Employees Housing  ]                  no           2,000           -             -             1        2,000          -           -           -            -             1       2,000
Fertilizer Spreaders                  no             200             2           4oo           1          200                                  -            -             3         600
Pasture Over-Seeded with
Legume Seed                      ha            77.00           100         7,700                      -                                    -            -           100       7,700
Improved Pasture Grass/Legume        ha           223.00           _             -            75       16,725           75      16,725         -            -           150      33,450
Heifers                              no              600           -             -            16        9,600           41      24,600        57         34,200         114      68,400
Bulls                                 no           1,500           -             -             5        7,500            3       4,500         3          4,500          U1      16,500
Horses                                no             300             2           600           4        1,200          --                      -            -             6       1,800
Miscellaneous                                                                  3,337                    4.276                    5.276                    3,870                  16,759
Sub-total                                                            36,712                    47,039                   58.039                   42,5y0                 184,360
Working Capital:
Fertilizer                            kg             .50         5,Doo         2,500       7,500         3,750       7,500        3,750        -             -       20,000      10,000
Labor                              man/yr          1,800           --                        -             -             1       1,800         -            -             1       1,800
Animal Health                        AU             4.10           -             -           _             143         -            360        -             -                       503
Concentrate Feeds .,                 AU             3.00           -             -           -             105         -           264         -             -          -            369
Miscellaneous                                                                    250                       400                      618                      -                     1.268
Sub-total                                                              2.750                    4,398                    6,792                      _13940
Total Investment                                                      39.462                   51,437                   64.831                   42.570                 198,300
For tick control. .oI
3] Cowboy's house.
3] Head cowboy's house.
D fips, vaccine, drenches and minerals.
| Feed given to cows when in nursery.



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0
Model - Hill Beef Cattle Ranch - 600h.
Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
(p)
<       CATEGORY                                   Before                                        _________________----Year------------------------
1/           ~Development                          1             2              3              4              5              6              7              8-20
Cattle Sales-
Cull Bullsu.                                         -                 -              -                     -           3,000           3,000         4,000           4,000
Cull Cows .16,800                                           16,800         11,200         12,88^        15,680         29,680         31,920         33,600          33,600
Weaners. .                            17,856                17,856         16,704         17,226         22,338        30,555         43,416         69,597          77,976
Total Sales                      34,656               34,656         27,904         30,106         38,018         63,235         78,336        107,197         115,576
OPERATING EXPENSES
Labor2/                                  13,200               13,200         13,200         13,200         15,000         15,000         15,000         15,000          15,000
3!
Animal Health:-'
Dipping, Vaccines, Drenching
Mineral Licks4and Medicines---          845                  845            845            845          1,504          1,619          1,738          1,738           1,738
Concentrate Feeds .618                                            618           618            618          1,101          1,185          1,272          1,272           1,272
Fertiizert/                                 -                     -              -             -            1,000          1,000          1,200          1,500           1,500
Sub-total                        14,663               14,663         14,663         14,663         18,605         18,804         19,210         19,510          19,510
Miscellaneous 107.                        1,466                 1,466          1,466         1,466          1,861          1,880          1,921          1,951           1,951
Total Operating Expenses         16,129                16,129        16,129         16,129         20,466         20,684         21,131         21,461          21,461
1/ Cull bulls sell at P1,000/head; Cull cows at P560/head; Weaners at P1.80/kg.
2/  one head cowboy at P3,600/year; Two cowboys at P1,800/year; Owner P6,000/year.  Year 4, additional cowboy at F1,800/year.
3/  Animal health at P4.10/A U /year,
4! Concentrate feeds at P3.00/A U /year.
5/  Fertilizer costs P0.50/kg.                                                                                                                                                           Io
w~ O)



P-ILIPPIhES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5                                                                                               Model - Hiill Reef Cattle Ranch - 600 ha
Finanicial Projection
Before                                      -Year-----------Year_-- - -- -- -- -- -- -
Developmsent           1             2            3             4                          6             78                         910-20
CASH INFLOW:
1.  Annual Sales ............................               34.66              34.66        27.90         3C.10        38.02         63.24       78.34         107.20        115.38       US.>8         115.73
2.  Pr,oducerls Costribuison..........-                                         i. 914       5-i4          6.46         4.25           -            --                   -                    -             -
3.  Long-term  Loan .............. 51 ........                         i        5.5         46.30         52.35        38-                                               -                    -
4.  S]hrt_teem Pinancial Resources:J
a.  Last Year's Cash Balance ......                     .68              9.62          9.66         9.68          9.79         5.91        i.61.8128                                   .8i.8
b.  Short-term Loans ...............                                                    -            -            2.49         6.60
5.  Other Resources:
a.  Last year's Cast Balan%ce ......                                     7.39        13.58          7.4i-- -                                  -                        12.58         39.36-
o.  Other Short_t.err Loans .      ............                                                           
Total Expected Cash Inflow ......                44.34             91.19        102.60       112.02         92.87         75.63       91.02         120.08       141.04        167.82        128.46
CASH OUTFLOW:
1. Investments:
a.  Producer's Contribution .... .......                -                3.94         5.14          6.48          4.25          -            -              -                          _             _
b.  Lonlg-Cera Loan .-......................................4 35.52 146                             8.3          3 53           -            -                                         -
2. Operating Costs:
a.  Operating Costs Exclusive of
Loan interest ..................                                  16.13         16.13        16. 13        20.47     2 0.G8          21.13          21.46         2i.46        21.46    21 .46
s. Loan Interest:
i.  On Short-tern  Loans  2/   .......                                                                                    0 .35       0.92                                        -
ii.  On Long-term  Loan    2/                                         -           4.6          3.82        16.E2        1.42        20.12          17.46         1L.64          5.82          -
3   Debt Service:
a.  Of Short-tern  Loas .....       ..........                                                                                 2.49         6.60                                       -
a.  Of Long-t;ens l,oan   4/ -............                ,-                            -            -             -          10.83        22.17         48.50         48.5o         48.49
L.  Available Cash Withdrawals  2/  .7.20                                       7.20         7.20          3.20         7.20          7.20         7.20           7.20         7.20          8.0o         10.00
Total Expected Cash Outflow .......              23.33             62.79         79.03         97.98        87.o6         62.97       75.14          94.62         88.80         83.77         31.46
SURPLUS CASH AT TEAS EID:                                      21,01             28.)tC       23.57         l4.o4          5.81        12.68        12.88          25.46         52.24        64.05         97.00
CUMUIATI7E INCRMLEIS2Al HERD 2VALUE:                                               -           23.00        65.10        124.80       163.80       201.35         205.oo       208.00        200.OO        208.00
I/ Annual s ort -e,ns fiba-cial requirerents ars, as-2ed   eti        t a  60,, of opcrat ng cost- (exclusive of Loan .rtunc, -                                                                                              a
3/  At bY   p.a. 14 i the  -t9tai.g bal-9e.
TotaL tterm  of nire yetrs  incluoing four years of sracc.                                 b, abotlc  t, f         !rArinal  i    --5        i,l y-a_, arc! 17t In yea- 7            3   I me instances it mat  be
sppropr iate  o arrant I a-term laant up to             L !ea. s d'%d capi talip e intores. the first tbso years.  It is expected, thouD, that on average the terms would be 1i  years with grate            s of 4 to 5 years.
rj  Sepreonntnshe bes-t it-nate if liktl, sa-,. wi-bdracas fir lfvi   arS lt,er expenrses.  Wouli retyets at ahio-tesu   devciopreet level, rlsing after lung-term loan is repaid.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Pig Breeding/Fattening - 25 Sows
Herd Projection
Before                  --End of Year-
Development     1           2         3-20
HERD COMPOSITION
Sows and Replacements .12                                   30         30          30
Boars  . .1   2   2   2
Pigs - 0-6 weeks .21    51    52    52
Pigs - 6-12 weeks.                              18     44    45    45
Pigs - 12-34 weeks .52                                     86    129    129
Total Pigs                               1_0         213         258        258
TOTAL BIRTHS                                     200        320         500         500
PURCHASES
Gilts...................................        -          18          -           -
Boars..             .1   1   1
Total Purchases                           -           19           1          1
MORTALITY
Breeding Females-......................-                     1          1           1
Boars .... .                                                              
Pigs - 0-6 weeks ...... ..................      40         64         100         100
Pigs - 6-12 weeks-.---------------------         8         13          20          20
Pigs - 12-34 weeks.5                                        7          11         11
Total Mortality                           53          84         132        132
SALES
Culled Sows ........... ..................       4          4          10         10
Culled Boars .-    -    1    1
Finished Pigs.                                 143    142    313    358
Total Sales                              1)47        146        32 4        369
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Conception Rate - (%) .80                                  80          80         80
Number Born/Farrowing ...................      10          10          10         10
Number of Farrowings/Fertile Sow/Year           2           2           2          2
Average Number of Farrowings/Female in
Breeding Herd .1.67    1.67    1.67    1.67
Sow Culling Rate/Year - (%)..                  40.t        40o         4o         ho
Boar Culling Rate/Year - (%)..40 .40 440                                          ho
Mortality - (%)
Breeding Females ......................       2           2          2           2
Boars .................................       1           1           1          1
Pigs - 0-6 weeks ..---                                  ------                 -- 20  20  20  20
Pigs - 6-12 weeks.                            5           5          5           5
Pigs - 12-34 weeks .3                                     3          3           3
October 6, 1971



PHILIPPIDES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Pig Breeding/Fattening - 25 Sows
Investment Projection
H
H                                                                                            -------- Year 1 --------   ------- fear 2 --
Unit       Unit Cost      No. of    Total Cost    No. of    Total Cost          Total    Total Cost
INVESTENTS                                                                  (P)         Units          (p)        Units           (p)          Units        (P)
Fixed
Farrowing Pen ...................................          92           800           4           3,200          -             -             4        3,200
Drysow  Pen   ................ .........................   52           g0            2          1,800          -              _             2        1,800
Boar Pen ..                    ...      . .......          9            700           1            700           -             _             1          700
Weaning Pen ...........               ...........          8m2          600           4          2,400           -                           4        2,400
Fattening Pen ..                             ......       19m2          900           4          3,600           -                           4        3,600
Feed Store ......................................         37m          1,600          1          1,600           -             .             1        1,600
Workman's House ........... ......................        no.         2,000           1          2,000           -             -             1        2,000
Gilts ...    ....................................         no.           500          18          9,000           -             _            18        9,000
Boar ...       ..................................         no.         1,000           1          1,000           -             -             1        1,000
Small Equipment, Tools and Miscellaneous j ......                       -             -          3,000           -                                    3,000
Sub-Total                                                                             28,300                     _                         28,300
Working Capital
Feed .............................................        kg              o.60    27,360        16,416       21,670        13,002       49,030       29,418
Medicines and Vaccines ..........................      per sow           50.00         15          750           -             -            15          750
Labor           ......................                 man yr.        2,000            0.5       1,000             0.5      1,O OO 1                  2,000
Sub-Total                                                                              18,166                    14,002                    32,168
Total Investment                                                            46,466                     14,002                    60,468
Technical Coefficients
Feed consumption/sow or boar/annum - 1,000 kg
Feed consumption/weaner (0-6 weeks) - 6 kg
Feed consumption/grower (6-12 weeks) - 50 kg
Feed consumption/finisher (12-34 weeks) - 140 kg
Feed consumption/finished pig - 273 kg
Feed conversion efficiency - 3.79 kg feed/kg liveweight (8-80 kg)
Labor Productivity - 2 men/25 sows.
j Water pump, water hose, weighing scales and tools.
ro -.4



PHILIPPINES
0
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
C
0                                     Model - Pig Breeding/Fattening - 25 Sows
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
Before          ------------------ Year ----
Development                1              2              3-20
SALES
Finished Pigs   ..                     44,616                44,304          97,656         111,696
Cull Boars              .                -                     -                250              250
Cull Sows                 .   .                               1,1000          2,500           2,550
Total Sales                       45,616                45,304        loo,4o6          114,496
OPERATING EXPENSES
Feed  .............                    31,878                31,878          64,199           79,478
Labor...2000                                                  2,000           3,000            4,000
Veterinary and Medicines                  ) 500                 500           1,250            1,250
Miscellaneous ................            500                   500           1,000            1,000
Maintenance .............0......                      7         500           1,000            1,000
Boar  g  .....................           -                     -              1,000            1,000
Total Operating Expenses          35,378                35,378          71, 449         87,728
/ Pigs sold at 80 kg liveweight, selling price P3.90/kg.
2 Cull sows and boars sold at P250/head.
/ P50/sow.
I Price of boar - P1,000
(D >



Oj                                                                                          PHILIPPINES
CD
ITVESTOCK DEVELCPMENT PROJECT
Model - Pig Breeding/Fattening  -  25 Sows
Financial Projections
H                                                                                           (p '000)
Before         ---------------------------------------- Year ---------------------------___- ______-_
Development            1           2           3           4           5           6           7          8-20
CASH INFLOW:
1.  Annual Sales    ,      ...................                 45.62           45.30      100.41      114.50      114.50      114.50   1i4.5o         114.50       114.5o
2.  Producer's Contribution  ......................              -              4.65        1.40         -           _                        _           _           _
3.  Long-tern L oan     ...............................          -             41,8p       12.60         -           -           -           -            -
4. Short-term Financing Resources: /
a. Last Year's Cash Balance .....      ............      1.76             1.76        1.44      17.27        16.27       17.70       19.13       20.56        4.38
b. Short-term Loan ....                                    -               -          2.13         -           -           -           -           -
Total Expected Cash Inflow          47.38           93.53      117.98      131.77      130.77      132.20      132.63      135.06      118.88
CASH OUTFLOW:
1. Investments:
a.  Producer's Contribution .                              -              4.65        1.4o         -           -           -           -           _            _
b   Long-term Loan .......     ...................-                      41.82       12.60         -                                   -_-                      -
2.  Operating Costs: ........      ......................      35.38           35.38       71.45       87.73       87.73       87.73       87.73        87.73       87.73
3. Debt Service:
a. Of Short- term Loarn 2  ..........2I-........                                       -          2.43         -           -           -           -           -
b. of Long-term Loan  3                                                    -          5.02       15.10       15. 1515.10             15.10       15.10          -
4.  Available Cash Withdrawals  4  .............              10.24            10.24       10.24       10.24       10.24       10.24       10.24        11.00       12.00
Total Expected Cash Outflow          45.62           92.09      100.71      115.50      113.07      113.07      113.07      113.83        99.73
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR END:                                         1.76             1.44      17.27       16.27       17.70        19.13       20.56       21.23       19.15
CUMULATIVE INCREMENTATL 1TER1) VALUE:                              -             24.54       33.17        33.17       33.17       33.17       33.17       33.17       33.17
/ Annual short-term capital requirements are assumed to equal 5% of operating costs (exclusive of loan interest).
/ At 14% p.a.
3/ Total term of seven years including two years of' grace, 12% interest p.a.
j  Represents the best estimate of likely ca.h withdrawals for living and other expenses.  WouLd remain at aboout
before developmeret, level rising after long-term  loan is repaid.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Broiler Production - 8,000 Broiler Capacity
Flock Projection
Before                  Year-------
Development         1             2-10
FLOCK COMPOSITION
Broilers (0-8 Weeks) .4,100                           8,200          8,200
PURCHASES
Day-old Chicks .21,000                               38,000         42,000
MORTALITY
Broilers (0-8 Weeks) .1,000                           1,900          2,000
SALES
Broilers .20,000                                     36,100    40,000
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Age at Purchase - Days                    1                1              1
Age at Sale - Weeks                       8                8              8
Batches per Year - Number                 5                5              5
Mortality - .                             5                5              5
Average Liveweight/Broiler at
8 Weeks - kg .1.3                                       1.3            1.3
Average Feed Consumption/Broiler -
kg .3.6   3.6   3.6
November 5, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Broiler Production - 8,000 Broiler Capacity
Investment Projection
---- Year 1 --------
Unit   Unit Cost      No. of    Total Cost
(R)        Units          (R)
INVESTMENTS
Fixed
Broiler House ............     374m2   25,000         1         25,000
Equipment ....... ,....000                            -          8,000
Workman's House ............-            2,000        1          2,000
Small Equipment, Tools
and Miscellaneous .........             2,000        -          2,000
Sub-total                                                  37,000
Working Capital
Chicks ..............         chick      1.25     5,250          5,250
Feed ........................   kg       o.65    14,400          9,360
Medicines and Vaccines ..... per bird    0.10      4,000           400
Brooding Cost .............. per bird    0.10     4,000            400
Electricity and Water ....... per bird    0.30    4,000            120
L.abor ............m.......... man yr.   2,000        0.2          400
Miscellaneous ..............              100                      100
Sub-total                                                  16,030
Total Investment                                      53,030
November 5, 1971



ANNEX 8
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Broiler Production - 8,000 Broiler Capacity
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
(R)
Before     -------- Year -
Development       1             2-10
SALES
Broilers  /...................           91,000        164,255       182,000
OPERATING EXPENSES
Chicks 2 .26,250    42,250    52,500
Feed 3                                   46,800         75,114        93,600
Medicines and Vaccines  /.                2,000          3,210          4,000
Brooding Cost 2/ ................         2,000          3,210         4,000
Electricity and Water ~/ .,,,,.             600            963         1,200
Labor 7/ .......................          2,000          3,600         4,000
Miscellaneous ..................            500            900         1,000
Total Operating Expenses          80,150       129,247        160,300
/ Selling price/kg liveweight - P3.50.
/ Cost/chick - PI.25.
)/ Price of feed/kg - P0.65
Cost of medicine and vaccines/broiler - R0.10.
2/ Brooding cost/broiler - P0.10.
Electricity and water/broiler - P0.03.
7/ Labor - 1 man/4,000 broiler capacity costing P2,000 p.a.
November 5, 1971



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Broiler Production - 8,000 Broiler Capacity
Ho                                                                                          Financial Projections
(P '000)
Before        --------------_--------------------------- Year ------------------
Development           1           2           3           4           5            6           7           8          9-10
CASH INFLOW:
1.  Annual Sales          ..91.00                                            164.26      182.00      182.00      182.00      182.00    182.00         182.00      182.00       182.00
2.  Producer's Contribution         .        ...........        -              5.30          -           -           -           -          -             -           -
3. Long-term Loan           .           .                                     47.73               -            -           -          -   _-                          - 
4.  Short-term Financing Resources:  ]J
a. Last Year's Cash Balance .4.01                                       4001       30.62        27.07       26.31       25.55      24.79        24.03        23.27        8.02
b. Short-term Loan .-                                                    2.45         -           -           -           -  _   _                                -
Total Expected Cash Inflow        95.01          223.7(5      212.62      209.07      208.31      207.55    206.79         206.03      205.27      190.02
CASH OUTFLOW:
1. Investments:
a. Producer's Contribution  .....       ............     -              5.30          -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -
b. Long-tenm  Loan ........     ...................      -             47.73          -           -           -            -          -            -           -
2.  Operating Costs; .........      .....................    80.15           129.25      160.30      160.30      160.30       160.30    160.30        160.30       160.30      160.30
3. Debt Service:
a. Of' Short-term Loan                                                    -7 ...................?.79          -           -           -
b. Of Long-term Loan         .       ...........         -                -         11.61       ii.6i       11.61       11.61      11.61         11.61         -            -
4.  Available for Cash Withdrawals  j/         .     .       10.85            10.85       10.85        10.85       10.85       10.85      10.85        12.00        13.00       13.00
Total Expected Cash Outflow        91.00          191.13       185-55      182.76      182.76      182.76    182.76         183.91      173.30      173.30
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR END:                                        4.oi          30.62         27.07       26.31       25.55       24.79      24.03         22.12       31.97       16.72
CUMULATIVE INCREMENTAL FLOCK VAILE:                               -             92.66       92.66        92.66       92.66       92.66      92.66         92.66       92.66       92.66
Annual working capital resources are assumed t,o equal at least '% of operating costs (exclusive of loan interest).
At 14% p.a. plus repayment of loan granted precee ing year.
3I Loan tenm of seven years including one year of grace, 12% interest p.a.
ji Represents the best estimate of likely cash withdrawals for living and other expenses. Would approximate before
development level, rising after long-term loan is repaid.
t D



PHILIPPINES
2,-                                              LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Egg Production - 6,000 Hen Capacity
Flock Projection
Before         --------------------  Year ---------------__
Development                1                2            3 - 10
AVERAGE YEARLY FLOCK COMPOSITION
Chicks and Growers .1,063                                                   2,125             3,187.5        3,188
Layers                                      . ..............................  1,80a 1,800     4,450.0        5,400
Total Birds                                 2,863                3,925             7,637.5        8,588
PURCHASES                                                2,250                4,500             6,750          6,750
MORTALITY
Chicks and Growers .250                                                       500               750            750
Layers .................................                 400                  400             1,000          1,200
Total Mortality                                650                  900             1,750         1,950
SALES
Culled Birds ..........................                1,600                1,600             1,600          4,800
Eggs.394,200                                                              394,200           974,550  1,182,600
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Age at Purchase - days                                      1                    1                 1              1
Age at Sale - years   ,     ,    ,    ,                     1.5                  1.5               1.5            1.5
Average Percentage of Hens Laying/day                      60                  60                 60             60
Feed Consumption:
Chick 0-6 weeks - kg/head                                1.1                  1.1                1.1           1.1
Grower 6-26 weeks - kg/head                                         7                  7                7
Layer - kg/year         .......40                                            40                40
Mortality:                                                                                                                x
Chicks and Growers  - 7   .....,,,,                      11                  11                 11            11
Layers -   .       ..                                    20                   20                20             20



PHILI?PINES
B                                                                                 LIVESTOCKI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Egg Production - 6,000 hen Capacity
Investment Projection
------- Year 1 -------        ------- Year 2 -------
unit.         Init CORt      No. of        Ton.al CoRt      No. of      Total Cost         Total       Total Cogt
INVESTMTS                                                                              (P)         Units             (u) units                     (i)           Units            (P)
Fixed
Laying House, Cages and Equipment ....         ............     180m-                            -             35,000           --
Grower House and Equipment ..        . .       .                130m2              -             -             15,000           -
Brooder House and Equipment ......................               60m2              -             -             10,000           -
Workoano'E House ..................,          .       ..         -                 -             -              2,000           -
SEall Equipment, Tools ario Miscellaneous .........              -                 -             -              2,000           -
Sub-total                                                                                               _4,,O00                                                       64,ooo
Workin  Capital
Chick Purche ...............                                    chick              1,25       2,250             2,812        2,250          2,812          4,5oo            5,624
Chick Feed ..........      .............................          kg               0.75       2,412             1,809        2,412          1,809              -             3,618
Grower Feed .............                                         kg               0.75    14,595              10,946       14,595         10,946              -           21,892
Medicines and Vaccines ......................,.                per bird            0.10       2,250               225         2,250            225             -               450
Brooding Cost ...........                                      per bird            0.01       2,250               225        2,250             225              _             450
Electricity and Water .....................,.,.                per bird            0.01       2,250               225        2,250             225             -              450
Labor /  ...........m............................              man  yr.          2,000         0.5              1,000        2,000          1,000              -            2,000
Suab-total                                                                                               17,242                      17,242                           34,484
Total Investment                                                                                   81,242                       17,242                          98,484
/   Small water pump, hoses, weighing scales and tools.
@/  One man per 4,000 hens costing P 2,000 p.a.
I> '



PHILIPPINES
0
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPENT PROJECT
5
et                                     Model - Egg Production - 6,000 Hen Capacity
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
(p)
Before          --          ------- Year --------------------
Development              1               2             3 - 10
SALES
Eggs ...90..............                          go,666               90,666        224,146         271,998
Hens ..............................               6,ooo                 6,000 6,ooo 1000
Total Sales                             96,666              96,666         230,146         289,998
OPERATING EXPENSES
Chick purchase .2,13                                                    2,813          5,626           8,438
Feed ....       ..................                66,747               66,747        161,296         200,242
Medicines and Vaccines                               585                  585           1,340          1,755
Brooding Cost .225                                                        225             450            675
Electricity and lWater                               630                  630          1,333           1,890
Labor ....,.                                       1,000                1,000          2,000           3,000
Miscellaneous .500                                                        500           1,500          1,500
Total Operating Expenses                72,500               72,500        173,545         217,500
PRODUCTION COEFFICIENTS
Price per egg - P 0.23
Hen weight - 1.5 kg
Hen price - P 2.5/kg
Feed consumed:                                                                                                   H
Chick (O - 6 weeks) - 1.1 kg/bird
Grower (6 - 24 weeks) - 7 kg/bird
Layer (6 - 18 months) - 40 kg/bird/year                                                                        L \D



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Egg Production - 6,000 Hen Capacity
Financial Projections
(R '000)
Before           ------------------------------- Year ------------------------------------------
Development                1                2                3                4                5               6-lo
CASH INFLOW:
1.  Annual Sales ...................................           96.66                 96.66           230.15          290.00           290.00           290.00           290.00
P.  Producer's Contribution ........................             -                    8.12             1.72              -                -                -                -
3.  Long-term Loan .................................             -                   73.12            15.52              -                -                -                -
4.  Short-term Financing Resources:  1/
a. Last Year's Cash Balance .....       .............    3.62                   3.62            3.62            32.34            38.03            49.49            10.87
b. Short-term Loan ........      ...................       -                     -              5.05                                                -                -
Total Expected Cash Inflow        100.28                181.52           256.06           322.34           328.03           339.49           300.87
CASH OUTFLOW:
1.  Investments:
a. Producer's Corntribution .                                                   8.12             1.72
b. Long-term Loan .-                                                           73.12            15.52             -                -                -                -
2.  Operating Costs: ...............................  1 D.50                         72.52           173.55           217.50           217.50           217.50          217.50
3. Debt Service:
a. Of Short-tern Loan       .       .................                            -               -               5.75              -                -                -
b. Of Long-term Joarl  . ...................                                     -               8.77           36.90            36.90            36.90              -
4.  Available for Cash Withdrawals;    i           ........    24.ti6                24.16            24.16            24.16            24.16            26.oo            27.00
Total Expected Cash Outflow        96.66                1774. 9()        223.72           284.31           278.56           28o.4o           244.5o
SURPLUS CASH AT YEAR El D:                                         3.62                  3.62           32.3)4           38.03            49.49            59.09           56.37
CUMILATIVE INCREMENTAL FLO(ACK VALUE:                                                    8.50           43.90            63.oo            63.00            63.oo            63.00
I   Arnnual short-term capital requirements are assumed to cqual at least  f% of operating costs (exclusive of loan irnterest).
g/At. 14% p.a. pines repa,yrreot of loanl granlted preceeding year.                                                                                                                      > 
Total tent of five years including two years of grace, 12% interest y.a.                                                                                                              CD
R Jepresents the best estirnate of likely cash withdrawals for living and other expenses would remain al. about before development
level, risin.g after long-term loan is repaid.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Slaughterhouse Daily Capacity 20 Head of Cattle and 200 Head of Pigs
Investment Projection
Year
-2----       --2------
Costqper?  No. of             No. of              Total      Total
INVESTMENT ITEMS                               Unit       Unit      Units     Cost    Units      Cost     Units       Cost
Fixed:
land ......................                 ha       10.00         2        20      -          -        2         20
Building: Killing Floor, Chilling
Rooms, Cutting Room, Rendering
Room, Utility Room and                     2
Administrative Room ...... .........      m         0.77       660       508      -          -      660        508
Refrigeration Equipment ...... .......      no      192.00         1       192      -          -        1        192
Slaughterhouse Equipment:
Hog Scalder .......... .............      no        5.00         1         5      -          -        1          5
Hog Dehairer ......... .............      no        8.00         1         8      -          -        1          8
Band Saw .......                   .      no       18.00         1        18      -          -        1         18
Other .............................                                       18                                    18
Rendering, Drying and Grinding
Plant ... .       . .............         no      266.00         1       266      -          -        1        266
Truck - 5 Ton ..........                    no       75.00         1        75      -          -        1         75
Jeep ................................       no       16.90         2        32      -          -        2         32
Water Systems Pressure Pumps,
Storage Tanks and Piping 1   .......      no   4 0.00           1         40      -          -        1         40
Electrical Fittings                  .                                      15                                    15
Holding Pens                                                                10                                    10
Cryovac Machine ..........................  no       16.00         1        16      -          -        1         16
Sub-total ....................                                       1,223                                 1,223
Contingencies:
Physical - 5% .....................                                       61      -          -                  61
Price - 13.0%  2/ ..................                                     159      -          -                 159
Total Fixed Investments                                              1,413                                 1,43
Working Capital:
Labor                                                                      -        -         151                151
Utilities ....... ...................                                           -               34                34
Cryovac Bags                                                               -        -         319                319
Containers  ........ ..........      .                                          -             160                160
Freight ........ , ........       ....                                         -              798                798
Vehicles . ...............,.-   -                                                              15                 15
Maintenance ........-   -                                                                      10                 10
Bags, strings, etc. for by-products_ -                                              _          12                 12
Sub-total                                                1.499                                             1,499
Contingencies:
Physical - 5%      ....................                                           -          75                 75
Price - 20%  2/ .                                                        -   -              300                300
Total Working Capital                                                 -                                    1,8741
Total Investments ...................                                    11443 1,874 3,317
1/  Includes sinking of a bore-hole approximately 50 m deep.
2/ Average fixed investment is expected to occur about 2.5 years and average working capital investment about 3.5 years
after appraisal. local costs, that account for 59% of fixed investment and 86% of working capital costs, are
projected to increase by 6% per annum; and foreign exchange costs, that account for 41% of fixed investment costs
and 1b% of working capital, are projected to increase by 4% per annum, which results in an average price contingency
of 13% for fixed investment and 20% for working capital.
November 5, 1971



PHILIPPINES
uIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model - Slaughterhouse Daily Capacity 20 Heads of Cattle and 200 Heads of Pigs
Sales and Operating Expa nses Projection
U)                                                       (P mi lions)
-----------------------Year  ----------------
Catory                                    1          2           3           4-20
SALES
Beef Sales/                                         -         4.202       5.645        5.645
Pork Sales-                                         -        15.771      21,185       21.185
By-Product Sales-/                                   -          o.600     0.600         o.600
Total Sales                                       -        20.573     27.430        27.430
OPERATING EXPENSES
Cattle Purchases-                                   -         4.320      4.320         4.320
Pig PurchasesY/                                     -        18.720     18.720        18.720
Labor                                               -          -         0.151         0.151
Utilities6/                                          -         -          0.034        0.034
Cryovac Bags                                        -          -          0.319        0.319
Containers-/                                         -         -          0.160        0.160
Freight./                                            -         -          0.798        0.798
Vehicles                                            -          -         0.015         0.015
Maintenance9/                      10/               -         -          0.010        0.010
Bags, String, etc. for By-Products--                 -         -          0.012         0.012
Total Expenses                                    -        23.040     24.539        24.539
Miscellaneous 5%                                     -        1.152       1.227         1.227
Total i1penses                                    -        24.192     25.766        25.766
1/  Average selling price R7.7r0/kg, dressing weight 50%, downgrading 1%, chillshrinkage 2%, boning 30%.
2/  Average selling price P6.50/kg, dressing weight 70%, downgrading 1%, chillshrinkage 2%.
3/  Meat and bone meal sold at P2.00/kg wholesale.  Hides also included here.                                          lt
:/  Average liveweight 360 kg at P2.00/kg purchase price.                                                            FE
7/  Average liveweight 80 kg at P3.90/kg purchase price.                                                              CD
6/  Electricity and boiler fuel.                                                                                     9 H
7/ Cardboard containers approximately 60 cm x 50 cm x 15 cm holding 25 kg beef in cryovac bags.
e/ Sea freight PO.20/kg Mindanao to Manila.
/  G3neral maintenance of buildings, equipment and surroundings.
10/ Second hand bags for meat and bone meal. One second hand bag costs P1.00.



PHILIPPTNES
LIVESTOCK DEVE10PMENT PROJECT
a                                                                                          Model - Slnughterhouse Daily Cap.aity 20 Head of Cattle and 200 Head of Pigs
Financiasl  Projections
-                                                                                                                            (P Million)
t-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --------- -------- --------- --------- -------- --------- ---------_______---------- --------- -----_-_-_------- --------- -------- --------- --------- --------
1           2             3           4            5            6            7            8            2           10           11            12           13          14-20
CASH TNFLOW:
1.  Annual Sales                                                          -          20.573       27.430       27.430      27.430       27.430       27.430       27.430       27.430        27.430       27.430       27.430       27.430       27.430
2.  invesseOts:  j
a.   Producers' Contribution                                      0.407        0.777                             -            -            -                  -            -            -                   -                   -            -
b.   Goveranent Equity Contribution                                0.340       0.370
c.   Long-tens Loan                                               o,680        0.743
3.  Short-term Financial Re-sorces:  2/
a.   Last Year's Cash 3nJ.nce                                      -            -           2.347        0.728        2.959        0.943        3.403        1.295        4.107        1.606         3.000        3.000        3.000        3.000
b.   Short-tens Loans                                               _          6.o48         4.095        5.714       3.483        5.499        2.952        5.147        2.337         4.836        4_464        4.ih0        3.442        3.442
Total Enpested Cash Inflow                                   i.4hi       28.711       33.872       33.872       33.872       33.872       33.872       33.872       33.872       33.872       34.894        34.470       33.872       33.872
CASH OUTFLSW:
1.  S-vestments:
a.   Producers' Contribution                                      0.407        D.777          -            -           -            -            -             -            -            -            -            -            -
b.   Government Equity Contribution                                0.340        0.370
c.   Long-tens Loan                                               o.680        o.743
o Operating Costs Fxclusive of Lo.n Irt-rest                              -          24.1'2       25.766       25.766       25.766       25.766       25.(66       23.766       25.766       25.766       25.766       25.766       25.766       25.766
3. Debt Sereise
a.   Shurt-tenm  ion   3                                            -            -           6.895        4.668       6.513        3.970         b.Z69        3.365        5.868        2.664        5.513        5.089        4.606        3.924
i.   Long-tens Loan    _                                            -           D.doo        0.171        0.171       0.346        0.346         2.346        0.346        o.346        0.346         -            -            -            -
4.  Dividends:  !,/
a.   Preferred S-are                                                __                      0.1 o 6       0.093       o.80o        0.067        0.054        0.o4o         0.027        0.014                -            -                  -
b.   Coensn Shares                                                  -            -           O,ii3        0.127        0.136        0.i45        0.154        0.162        0.171        1.988        0.284        0,284        0.169         0.851
5.  Retirement of Preferred SThares    /                                  -            -           o.jH         o.o88        o.o88        0.088        0.088        o.o88        o.o88        0.094         -             -94                       -
6.  Corporation Incoe TIx  7                                                                                                                                   -                                            .331         0.331        0.331        0.331
Total Eiectsd Casih C5tfl1                                    1.427       26.164       33.144       30.913       32.329       30.382       32.57'       29.767       32.266       29.782        31.854       31.470       30,872       30.872
SUPPLUS CASH AT Y1AR Elf                                                    _           2.347        0.728        2.959        0.943        3.490        i.295        4.1i5        1.606         3.000        3.000        3.000        3.000        3,00
j    It is e-pected that prod-:er-, ohs  ould 1r-ably he b n-bers of -n association or -coop-rt1ce, would contriblte 30 to 35% of the total inventment tor
coosn shares; (1o-rnment equity co:rtribution of '0 tc %5% for preferred ohs-es would bi  -ontrsibted by the 5E3  or the Greater Manila Tenihnal Food
MPoket ( HoMFM); and 40 to 45% Of in,e-ter-t would toss Iran a long-te-n loon.
2,   Annual short-tent requirenentc ore n-su-ed to eqal 23% of .nnuol  pnrntinn  toos1  enclosive of boss interest)
3    At I4  pe  aun.
A 8! 12% per onrion on the outstandirl,,h borul .  Toots  Inns of 1  yToots, including four ye-rs of groas.
P/ preferred shares would be preferred as so an-osl dividevds of i152  -on-susulatic, noe-psrti-npstiag.  It, is espe-ted that the first di-idend
- would be drolared sn the thind yea,r std that net profits  -oj lollo  dsclnrslh ot of 10-12,% dividend on cummon  hares (at par raIse) in yearn
threc thro-glI 12, end1 flctuat.irid therenfri- dpenpil,g on pr-fitsbility  and  onort-te-s credit req-ureentn.
53   It is e-pected tOot flee surplu  (after psynent of dividends) would bo suffcient to retire prefnrred sintro s  t per value frot. year tOee thrcsgi
10, and 1b.ht scomort sihres would be issued equ-ssi-t to rhe preferred snores entired.
J    The corporstiori woold probably be ta-e-e-pl under tie Burenu of Industry (BOI) rles for tire first 17 jsrn of its operations; thereafter th?e
tax  uo-ld be 25% on tie f1r3t F 103,702 net  -rofits sod 350 os et p-rofihr  in  -oce- of th,t.



PHIILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEELVFLOERT  PROJECT
Model - Slaughterhouse taily Capacity 20 Head of Cattle and 200 head of Pigs
-D
Profit and Loss Projections
(P Millions)
1         2         3         4          5         6          7         8         j          10        11         12        13      14-19       20
Income
Sales                           _     so.573    27.430    27.430    27.430    27.430    27.430    27.430    27.430    27.430    27.430    27.430         27.430   27.430    27.430
Expenses
Operating                             24.192    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    25.766    19.325
Interest:
Short-term                         -        o.841     o.0.4      0.802     0.491      0.749     0.423     0.717      0.346     o.560      o.560     o.560      o.56o     0.560
Long-term                  -      o.086     0.181     0.181      0.175     0.152      0.127     0.098     o.o65      0.030      -          -         -          -         -
Depreciation                    -      0.130     0.130     0.130      0.130     0.130      0.130     0.130     0.130      0.130     0.130      0.130     0.130      0.130     0.130
Total Expenses             -     24.408    26.924    26.651    26.873    26.539    26.772    26.417    26.678    26.272    26.456    26.456    26.456    26.456    20.015
Operating Income                  -     (3.835)    o.5o6      0.779     0.557     0.891      o.658     1.013      0.752     1.158     0.974      0.974     0.974      0.974     7.415
Provision for Incoc Tax                  -                              -          _                              -         -        0.331      0.331     0.331      0.331     2.585
Adjustment to Profit              -     (3.835)    0.506      0.779     0.557      0.891     0.658     1.013      0.752     1.158     0.643      o.643     o.643      o.643      4.830
and (Loss) 2/
3/  Expenses reduced by P.6.441 (miUlion) which constitutes the cost of the f'irst batch of livestock purchased
in the first quarter of year-2 (start-up year).  Sinace turnover would be every 90 days, there would be
only three units sold in year-S''.
/   Prof'itability of operations over 20 year period would be about 19%.



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Management and Technical Services
Investments Projections
Project Year
Number       1         2        3        4         5        6       Total     Cost
(--------------------- (P '000) ------------------------) (US$ '000)
CATEGORY
Project Vehicles:
Jeeps      ............              10          80       80        -         -        -         -        160      25.2
Motor Cycles ........... 1/...       20          20       20        -                  - -       -         40       6.3
Investigational Equipment
and Grants  .................         -         32        63       32         -        -         -        127      20.0
Salaries:            2/
Project Specialists .........  11 man/years  750         750      750       500        -         -      2,750    433.1
Consultants 3/ ...... ........     9 months    254         -       127        -        -         -        381      60.0
Local Staff4/ ...........4...  111  man/years 207        400      400       400      177        59      1,643    258.7
Subsistance and Miscellaneous .         -         34        60       60        60       26        10        250      39.4
Gas, Oil and Repairs      .........                30       60       60        60       20         7         237     37.3
Contingency - about 10% .......-                  141      143       143      102       47        33        609      95.9
Total                                1,548    1,576    1,572    1,122        270       109      6,197    975.9
__:--_    =:       ==:::   Z:r==    3=mx:    :=:_:    m:::  -:2-=    =---
1/ Laboratory and other investigational equipment, e.g. scales, fertilizer and seed for field trials, feed mixer,
equipment, feeds and livestock for feeding investigations. Small grants to encourage relevant applied work.
2/ Technical Director 4 years; Pasture - Animal Production Specialist 4 years; Applied Pig and/or Poultry
Nutritionist 3 years.
3/ Consultant to define a program for utilizing molasses and sugar care tops.  Visit Philippines for two periods
of three months in Project years 1 and 3.  Consultant on pig breeding to define a program for pig
improvement; - one three month visit.                                                                                    §
4/ Year 1 - 14 men; Year (2-4) - 27 men; Year 5 - 12 men; Year 6 - 4 men  P14,800 per man.
H






ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Management and Technical Services -- Terms of References
and Qualifications
1.        Technical Specialist - would act as a Technical Specialist within
the Livestock and Poultry Group of the Agricultural Department, Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and assist the Head of the Group in carrying
out the Project. Including, but not limiting the generality thereof, he
would have the following minimum specific duties, responsibilities and powers,
which he might delegate in part to assigned technical staff:
(a) advising administrative officials (Manager, Agricultural
Department and Head, Livestock and Poultry Group) on major
policies and procedural matters in respect to the Livestock
Development Project;
(b) assisting in the execution of the Project in accordance with
policies and procedures agreed to with the administrative
officials (Section (a));
(c) recommending to the Head of the Livestock and Poultry Group
the employment of livestock technicians needed to carry
out the Lending Program of the Project;
(d) coordinating the work of the production specialists (para 2
and 3);
(e) in consultation with the Head of the Livestock and Poultry
Group prescribing the duties and responsibilities of the
livestock technicians and supervising their training in the
technical and economic aspects of livestock production and
the preparation of farm/ranch investment projects;
(f) recommending farm/ranch investment projects to the Head of
the Livestock and Poultry Group;
(g) assist in establishing a farm accounting system for sub-loan
beneficiaries with particular attention to maintaining an
adequate sample of farm/ranch records as needed for Project
evaluation;
(h) giving assistance and cooperation to any short-term technical
consultants that may be employed in connection with Project
activities; and



ANNEX 12
Page  2
(i) giving assistance to the Manager of the Agriculture Department
toward modernizing and streamlining its agricultural credit
activities.
Qualifications
The Technical Specialist shall have the following qualifications:
(a) a university degree in agriculture or allied sciences such
as Animal Husbandry or Agricultural Economics;
(b) a broad professional experience of about 10 years in the use
of credit for farm development with ability and experience
to prepare and appraise technically sound and financially
viable investment plans for farm development which would
satisfy the normal lending criteria of financial institutions;
(c) several years administrative experience in the application of
agricultural credit systems; being well grounded on the
principles of credit, its use, and with the capability to
analyze financial accounts and projections;
(d) the ability to prepare and carry out training programs for
livestock and poultry technicians; and
(e) the ability to work both with high level administration
officials and with the small to medium size agricultural
producers.
Preference would be given to candidates who have had experience in an environ-
ment similar to that of the Philippines.
2.        Pig and Poultry Production Specialist - would assist the Chiefs
of the Pig and Poultry Divisions in executing the Project. Including, but not
limiting the generality thereof, he would have the following duties and
responsibilities:
(a) to recommend major policy and procedural matters with
respect to the pig and poultry components of the Project;
(b) to assist in the execution of the pig and poultry components;
(c) to recommend the employment, and assist in the selection of
livestock technicians needed to carry out the pig and poultry
components;
(d) to prescribe the duties and responsibilities of the livestock
technicians in consultation with the Head of the Livestock
and Poultry Group, the Technical Specialist and the Chiefs
of the Pig and Poultry Divisions;



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(e) to assist in the training of livestock technicians in technical
and economic aspects of pig and/or poultry production, and in
the techniques of preparing farm investment projects;
(f) to recommend farm investment projects to the Chiefs of the
Pig and Poultry Divisions;
(g) to provide, inter alia, guidance on design and specifications
of pig and poultry buildings and equipment used therein;
advising farmers on pig and poultry production and management
techniques, including feed formulation and home mixing, use
of antibiotics, vaccines and veterinary medicines, mating,
castration, hygiene, feeding methods and scale of feeding
for different categories of stock, housing plans and specifi-
cations for expansion;
(h) to provide such supervision and technical assistance as
needed to ensure successful completion of pig and poultry
investment projects;
(i) to assist in establishing a farm accounting system, for
subloan beneficiaries with particular attention to the
maintenance of adequate farm records for Project evaluation;
and
(j) to initiate trials to establish the most economic feeding
regimen for pigs and poultry while using domestically produced
feeds to a maximum. These trials would include:
(i) evaluation of feeding values of low energy cereal
by-products when used in conjunction with corn, opaque
2 corn, and cassava meal;
(ii) evaluation of feeding values of different sources of
protein, including copra, soybean and fish meal; and
(iii) liaison and coordination of extension work with appro-
priate colleges, universities and Government agencies.
3.        Coconut/Beef Production Specialist - would assist the Chief of
the Beef Cattle Division in executing the Project. Including, but not limiting
the generality thereof, he would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) to recommend major policy and procedural matters with respect
to coconut/beef, cattle and hill/beef cattle components of the
Project;
(b) to assist in the execution of the hill/beef and beef/coconut
components;
(c) to recommend the employment, and assist in the selection of
livestock technicians needed to carry out the hill/beef and
beef/coconut components;



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(d) to prescribe the duties and responsibilities of the livestock
technicians in consultation with the Head of the Livestock
and Poultry Group, the Technical Specialist and the Chief of
the Beef Cattle Division;
(e) to assist in the training of livestock technicians in technical
and economic aspects of beef/coconut production, and in the
techniques of preparing farm investment projects;
(f) to recommend farm investment projects to the Chief of the
Beef Cattle Division.
(g) to provide guidance on pasture improvement and stock manage-
ment techniques to beef cattle ranchers;
(h) to provide such supervision and technical assistance as
needed to ensure successful completion of each investment
Project and Loan;
(i) to assist in establishing an accounting system, for subloan
beneficiaries with particular attention to the maintenance of
adequate records for Project evaluation;
(j) to determine those grasses and legumes most suitable to
Philippine conditions, including sawing and cultivation
techniques, seeding rates and response to fertilizers;
(k) to investigate methods of developing natural grasslands in-
cluding oversowing of legumes and response to fertilizers
and lime;
(1) to formulate and supervise a scheme for plant and seed
multiplication; and
(m) to cooperate on grassland research with the proposed UNDP
Research Unit, University of the Philippines, Los Banos,
and other Government agencies.
4.        Consultant on Use of Molasses - in cooperation with the General
Manager and Chief, Livestock and Poultry Group, Agricultural Department
(DBP), and the Technical Specialist, Livestock Development Project, the
Consultant would be responsible for:
(a) advising and recommending the feasibility of utilizing
molasses and sugar cane tops for cattle production based
on present information; advising and recommending on an
investigational and applied research program that would
be needed to investigate the economic feasibility of a
breeding/fattening feedlot system of production based on
molasses, sugar cane tops or an alternative source of
forage;



ANNEX 12
Page 5
(b)  reviewing the work done by Victorias Milling Company (Negros
Occidental) on the use of molasses and sugar cane tops under
feedlot conditions; making his report and recommendations
available for the Company, as well as interested parties and
Government authorities; and
(c)  the Consultant would prepare a report(s) covering the
following items in depth:
(i)  expected quantities of molasses available in the
Philippines over the next 5, 10 and 20 year periods
and the anticipated price per m ton for animal feeding
in the Philippines and worldwide prices;
(ii) the forage value of sugar cane tops and comparison
with other sources of forage, e.g. para grass;
(iii) mechanics and feasibility of cutting, collecting and
transporting sugar cane tops to a feedlot taking into
account distance, present and future cost of labor;
(iv) evaluation of protein feeds needed for feedlot using
molasses to ensure optimum production in economic
terms;
(v)  detailed information on animal performance expected
including quantities of different feeds needed per kg
of carcass beef produced;
(vi) detailed cost estimates including housing and fixed
equipment, feed, labor, machinery and other charges
and an estimated rate of return on investment; and
(vii) suggestion for extending a pilot scheme in the Philippines
if feasible.
5.         ConSultant on Pig Breeding - in cooperation with the General
Manager and Chief, Livestock and Poultry Group, Agricultural Department, DBP,
and the Technical Specialist, Livestock Development Project, the Consultant
would be responsible for:
(a)  advising the Philippine Pig Producers Association and other
similar associations, and appropriate Government institutions
on a suitable genetic improvement scheme for pigs;
(b)  suggesting how a pilot scheme might be expanded into a
national scheme for pig improvement;



ANNEX 12
Page 6
(c) examining alternative approaches feasible under Philippine
conditions and analyzing the costs/beneifts which may be
expected from each;
(d)  the consultant should prepare a report(s) that would include
detailed information on the following:
(i) evaluation of contribution from importation of tested
stock and guidelines on importation policy;
(ii) evaluation of "on the farm" testing and its suitability
for Philippine conditions;
(iii) role of progeny and performance testing;
(iv) physical facilities and personnel required for different
schemes;
(v) examine how benefits from improvement scheme can be
incorporated into the national pig herd;
(vi) rate of progress in such economically important traits
as feed conversion efficiency and carcass quality; and
(vii)  budget and method of funding of schemes suggested.
March 3, 1972



PHIL PPlNES
TLTVESTOCK DEVELOPMINT PROJECT
Phasing of the Lending Prograr
'0  Phasing of l inoectoon and Pro)osed Financing                           N-nber and Phasing of Lon Co-itmento
--- ------------------ -__  __  _-----____Years --------_-----_-_------ -------   --- ----        ---- -   -  -- ------------_- ----- -- --Years_ - ------------------------__----
2           3           4           5           6           Total                     1           2           3            4           5           6            Total
Investmsent
Integrated Coconut Beef/Patt-enig (5 ha) .......          .      .....               oJ.55         ,.427       o.376       0.034        i.686                     25         5°          125          -           -            -            200
ontegrated Cononut/Beef Brseding/Fattening (15 ha) ..           .549      1.30+       3.331       1.393        u.648        -           7.247                     25          5°         125          -           -            _            200
lill BReef Cattle RE.hhes .0.197                                           D.652   l .233          1.316       1.074       o.426        4.955                      5          10          10                         _ -       -              25
Pig Far .'.......................              ,              '.647      135. 17     15.117        3.500        -           _          36.281                    100         250         250          -           -            -             600
Poultry Fams  -   ilers ........................,,.?,652                  5.3;3       5.3°3         -           -                      13,58                      50         0)          100          -            -           -             250
Poultry Farns - Eggs ..................o,,,0,, 4.062                      6.955        7.33-v   1.293           -           -          19.696                     50          75          75          -            - _                       200
Slaughtlerhouses   ................i,.,,,.,.,.,,,. , 1.443                3.31-       3.317        1.574        -           -           9,951                      1           1           1          -                                        3
SRb-total. . . .                   ........        .       ..67      30.776      35>.253       9.863       2.058       o.46(0   9 3.01'1                     256         536         686          -            -                        1478
Technni-l en  Adioistrstie S-erioes ...                       1.548       1.576       1.572        1.122       1.270       0.105        6.197
To,tn1 Investment ...................,.15.17'. 3?.354  31.£24                                  1O.985   2     .3h8       0.5639      '9.274
Proposed Financing of Oolvesomncn
IBED .                                                        7.486  15.945  18.o30  5.361  i.164  0.284  43. 740
BP/PIDBs .5.410   II.1,2   13.2.,    3.69.1   0.926   0.221   34.934
Pr-donrs ..78   5.14    5.14957   1.734   0.258   o.o64   15.4o0
Total loveot-ent Fin.ancin.                              l5.174  3> .354            37.924  1G&.9 5          2.368       o.56     9  99,274



ANNEX 14
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Shedule of Quarterly Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                       Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                             of End of Quarter
(US$'000)
1972/73
December 31, 1972                               200
March 31, 1973                                  500
June 30, 1973                                   900
1973/7h
September 30, 1973                            1,300
December 31, 1973                             1,800
March 31, 1974                                2,900
June 30, 1974                                 3,000
1974/75
September 30, 1974                            3,600
December 31, 1974                            41,300
March 31, 1975                                5,000
June 30, 1975                                 5,600
1975/76
September 30, 1975                            6,100
December 31, 1975                             6,500
March 31, 1976                                6,700
June 30, 1976                                 6,900
1976/77
September 30, 1976                           7,000
December 31, 1976                             7,100
March 31, 1977                                7,200
June 30, 1977                                 7,300
1977/78
September 30, 1977                            7,4OO
December 31, 1977                             7,500
March 3, 1972



ANNEX 15
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVES TOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
The Development Bank of the Philippines
Introduction
1.        The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), a wholly owned
Government institution, provides credit facilities for the development and
expansion of agriculture and industry and for broadening and diversifying
the national economy. In recent years, it has become one of the most im-
portant finance institutions channeling public funds into key sectors of the
economy.
Historical
2.        Established under Republic Act No. 2081 1/, June 14, 1958, DBP was
the successor of the Rehabilitation Finance Corporation (RFC), established
in 1946 to provide credit facilities for the reconstruction of World War II
damaged properties. RFC succeeded the Agricultural and Industrial Bank,
which was created in 1935 out of the National Loan Investment Board. At each
of the changes, the newly formed institution took over the assets and liabil-
ities of its predecessor.
Powers
3.        DBP may finance:
(a) agricultural, industrial utility enterprises through loans
and equity investments;
(b) self-liquidating or income-producing projects of provin-
cial or municipal authorities;
(c) purchasing, production and marketing activities of cooper-
atives; and
(d) acquisition of shares in corporations by employees of such
corporations.
4.        DBP may grant short-, medium- and long-term loans; purchase re-
deemable preferred shares or obligations of agricultural and industrial
corporations; underwrite or do business in securities of firms eligible for
financing; extend guarantees; rediscount medium- and long-term loans of the
1/   Amended by R.A. 3147, June 17, 1961 and P.A. 3517, June 19, 1963.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Philippine National Bank (Government-owned commercial bank) and the private
development banks; and subscribe to the capital of private development banks
(see paras 35 to 37).
5.        Subject to the approval of the President of the Republic, DBP may
issue bonds, debentures, securities, collateral and other obligations that
are fully guaranteed by Government. It may guarantee acceptance credit,
loans and other obligations, local and foreign, but the aggregate of DBP's
direct obligations may not exceed 10 times its capital and surplus.
Organization and Administration
6.        At the apex of DBP's management structure is the Board of Gover-
nors, which consists of eight members appointed by the President of the
Republic, with the consent of a Parliamentary Commission of Appointments,
for terms of seven years. However, a change in administration will normally
cause the entire Board to resign so that the incoming President can make any
new appointments as desired. The Chairman serves as the top Executive
Officer of the Bank and is also a member of the Monetary Board and sits in
cabinet meetings. The Secretary of Justice is the ex-officio legal advisor
to the Bank and the Auditor General is ex-officio auditor, each appointing
his representative in the bank.  The line of command extends from the Chairman
to the individual departments, with four full-time Governors carrying super-
visory responsibility over groups of departments assigned to them. The
bank's organization chart is shown in Table 1 and the composition of the
Board at time of appraisal, July 1971, in Table 2.
7.        DBP maintains a large head office at Makati, Rizal province,
10 miles south of Manila proper. It has a countrywide network of 26 branch
offices and 29 agency offices. Personnel, numbering approximately 1,800,
is about equally divided between the head office and branches and agencies.
Nearly 40% are classified as professional and supervisory, the others being
clerical and service. About 175 are agriculturists.
8.        Operational duties are allocated by function among several loan
departments dealing with industry, agriculture, Government, real estate and
banking and other investments. Other departments, including legal, credit,
accounting, treasury and administration, provide supporting services. An
independent auditor, appointed by the Government, with his staff serves
the head office and branches.
9.        Most loan departments rely on assistance from the Credit Department
in conducting credit investigations of loan applicants. The work is fairly
well done but, in most cases, more attention needs to be given to the financial
and economic aspects of projects as well as to technical factors. An excep-
tion is the Investment Banking Department, which bases its recommendations
on proposed loans on a complete and comprehensive study of the project 1/. A
1/ An economic research unit was established recently to assist all
departments with economic studies on loan and investment projects
when called upon.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
special section within the Department administers the Rice Processing and
Storage Project (Loan 720-PH).
10.       Each loan department monitors the disbursement of the loans it
recommends, while collections are handled by the Collection Department. Ac-
counts are maintained in the Accounting Department 1/.
11.       Executive responsibilities are now concentrated heavily in the
Chairman. For example, all loan applications in excess of P 5,000 are
subject to Board approval. Even though this approval may be only proforma,
the workload per meeting to process hundreds of loans is unnecessarily
burdensome. DBP is studying means of streamlining this procedure.
Agricultural Department
12.       The Agricultural Department would have a key role in the Project
as it would be responsible for its management and execution. The present
manager, a long-time employee of the DBP system, is favorably regarded
in Philippine financial circles and is considered an able administrator.
His head office staff of 95 persons (Table 3) includes about 50 agricultur-
ists with degree training in general agriculture, animal husbandry, veteri-
narian science, agricultural economics and agricultural engineering. In ad-
dition, there are about 125 agriculturists attached to branch and agency
offices. The quality of professional staff has improved within recent years
by elimination of politically inspired appointees. DBP's salary scale and
benefits are attractive since it is competitive with the private sector and
generally exceeds levels of remuneration paid by other Government institu-
tions. Recruitment of staff has, therefore, been no problem.
13.       To improve the quality and efficiency of its performance, the
Agricultural Department is being reorganized, the main involving the
realignment of its appraisal and supervisory work into sub-sectors, i.e.,
livestock and poultry, crops, fisheries, agricultural engineering and
agro-business. Each would be staffed with technicians, particularly qualified
to work in the applicable field of lending, which should produce a cadre of
skilled professionals. On a functional realignment, the technicians would
do both appraisal and supervisory work (an integration of functions was
recommended by the Mission and accepted by DBP). The Mission emphasized,
however, that the Department should avoid becoming over-organized and over-
staffed, e.g., loan analysts and researchers. Operations and policies would
be manualized which would reduce what has been at times a burdensome and
confusing flow of instructions and memoranda.
14.       To up-grade its performance capabilities, DBP conducts numerous
training programs. In 1971 it conducted a three-week seminar on project
evaluation and feasibility studies for key personnel involved in evaluating
and servicing project financing proposals. Persons attending held advanced
degrees in such fields as economics, engineering, business administration,
1/   The branch offices carry the accounts and handle the disbursements and
collections of accounts originated in the branches.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
finance and marketing. This type of program, as well as many others, will
be intensified and a training center is under construction.
15.       To execute the on-lending program of the Project, a Livestock and
Poultry Group with sub-sector divisions for beef cattle, pigs and poulty would
be established in the Agricultural Department. Project technical services
would be established within the framework of the Group, and would be prima-
rily responsible for developing the Investment Projects and supervising
sub-loans granted for execution of the Project. Technical expertise would
include a technical specialist, a pig and poultry production specialist, a
beef cattle production specialist, and a professional staff of about 23
livestock technicians. If possible, personnel would be selected from DBP's
existing complement and seconded to the Project on a full time basis. Some,
however, would probably be recruited.
16.       It would be desirable for several reasons to have the on-lending
program of the Project carried out by a unit within the Agricultural Depart-
ment. The Project would have a demonstrative and concurrent beneficial
effect on non-Project lending operations, as well as illustrate how important
sound project plans, backed up by good technical services, are to a successful
credit program. To assist DBP in this direction, the Technical Specialist
should have broad experience in the extension and management of a modern
rural credit system.
Financial Position (Table 4)
17.       Assets.  Assets owned by DBP reached P 3.3 billion (US$515 million)
on June 30, 1971, an increase of about 2-1/4 times over the amount held
on June 30, 1967. Net loans outstanding increased to about 2-1/3 times
during the same period and represent about 75% of total assets. Bonds and
securities account for about 10% and cash, trust funds and miscellaneous
for about 15% of total.
18.       Liabilities.  Liabilities were P 2.8 billion (US$440 million) on
June 30, 1971, having increased about 2-1/2 times during the last five
years. The increase was due principally to greater domestic borrowings,
rising from P 510 million (US$80 million) to P 1.3 billion (US$200 million);
time deposits in FY 1970-71 increased substantially in the amount of P 230
million (US$35 million), largely from the Bureau of Treasury. Foreign loans
also went up during the past fiscal year, from P 175 million (US$27 million)
to P 330 million (US$52 million), principally from an increase in credit
lines with the U.S. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) and the Canadian
Wheat Board (CWB). Compared with five years earlier, DBP's external debt
increased only about 15%.
19.       Net Worth.  Net worth has increased only by about P 75 million
(US$12 million) since June 30, 1967, mainly because of higher reserves for
contingencies (bad debts) and surpluses. It now stands at P 500 million
(US$80 million), nearly 20% of total debt (F 2.8 billion). The ratio
of net worth to liability has been steadily increasing -- five years ago



ANNEX 15
Page 5
it stood at 1:2.5 -- and now is 1:5.5. Although this is within the Bank's
Charter limit 1/, if, though, its contingent liability of P 2.4 billion
(US$375 million) on guarantees (para 20) is included as part of its full
debt obligatior., it has slightly exceeded the ceiling by about 5% (liabilities
of P 2.8 billion, plus P 2.4 billion guarantee, equals P 5.2 billion, against
10 times net worth of P 500, equals P 5 billion).
20.       Guarantees.  The policy of guaranteeing loans and suppliers'
credits incurred by DBP clients, introduced in 1966, has been a major
instrument in DBP's credit operations. It has been made use of increasingly
in supporting imports of machinery and raw materials financed by foreign
loans. Through these operations, the Bank acts as a channel for foreign
financing of imports of capital goods and essential raw materials that were
traditionally paid for in cash and, therefore, unduly strained the country's
international reserves. No doubt, these guarantees have fulfilled an
important function in expanding the country's foreign loan resources and
strengthening its international credit standing. However, the country's
financial difficulties in 1969-70 placed a heavy strain on DBP's budgetary
resources to meet its guaranty obligations and caused a virtual suspension
of normal credit activities, both for agriculture and industry. Some 150
firms are covered by guarantees, the bulk going to industry-textile, flour
milling, cement and mining. Approved guarantees between 1964 and 1971 amount
to US$822 million in foreign currencies and P 113 million in local currency.
Under one-half, P 2,400 million (US$375 million) was outstanding June 30, 1971,
while net advances to date (gross advances less repayments and conversions
to long-term loans) have amounted to about 13% of aggregate approvals.
Advances made during FY 1970-71 reached a peak of P 668 million (US$104
million), accounting for about two-thirds of the amount since 1964-65.
Recoveries of advances made up to FY 1970-71 have been about 90%, and nearly
full recovery is expected. Clients bear the foreign exchange risk, repaying at
the rate of exchange prevailing at time of repayment to DBP.  Significant
data are summarized below:
Pesos
(million)
Gross Advances
Prior to June 30, 1968                                 41.2
FY 1968-69                                            37.0
FY 1969-70                                           275.0
FY 1970-71                                           667.6
Total                         1,020.8
Less cash repayments                                 273.2
Converted to long-term loans                          57.5
Net advances due and demandable June 30, 1971        690.1
1/   Section 1 (g):  "To insure bonds, debentures, securities, collaterals,
and other obligations and/or the renewal or refunding of the same upon
recommendation of the Secretary of Finance and with the approval of the
President, but in no case to exceed at any one time an aggregate amount
equivalent to ten times of its paid-in capital and surplus" (net worth).



ANNEX 15
Page 6
Guarantees Outstanding,                US$         Peso
June 30, 1971                 Equivalent  Equivalent
------(million)-------
Regular guarantees                   333.3       2,166.5
Guarantees in Philippine pesos          -            40.9
CCC and CWB credit lines               36.8         239.0
Total           370.1       2,446.4
The schedule of installments on regular guarantees runs through to FY 1988
and through FY 1991-92 for the CCC and CWB lines of credit (see Tables 5 and
6, respectively). The bulk of guarantees will fall due during the next
five-year period, FY 1971-76, when about 75% of the total will mature.
Total advances made by DBP since FY 1966-67 approximate 45% of total approved
guarantees. However, since about one-third of this was required during the
crucial past, FY 1970-71, it is doubtful that future requirements would be
of this magnitude. DBP estimates that it will be required to make advances of
about US$20 million in FY 1971-72; US$12 million in FY 1972-73 and 1973/74;
and US$8 to 10 million in FY 1974-75 and 1975-76.
Financial Operations (Table 7)
21.       Net Income.  Net annual income was fairly constant at close to
P 30 million (US$4.7 million) until FY 1970-71, when it dropped to P 19
million (US$3 million). Principal causes were substantial increases in
interest paid (32% over preceding year) and salaries and employees' benefits
(23% over preceding year).
22.       Net income measured as a percentage of average outstanding loan
portfolio and investments held fairly constant at 2.3% during the first three
years of the last five-year period. In 1970, it declined to about 2% and in
1971 to less than 1% (Table 8). Though interest costs increased about 10%
during the past three years, gross income to total investments dropped off
sharply -- nearly 20%. This reflects mainly the heavy diversion in FY 1969-70
and 1970-71 of available funds to cover guarantees and not enough time has
elapsed to bring a significant return flow. Given a fair rate of repayment
on advances for guarantees and a greater volume of new lending, DBP's net
income picture should improve. Financial projections for FY 1971-72 to
FY 1973-74 are shown in Table 9. The projection for FY 1971-72 shows a
short-fall of about P 11 million (US$1.7 million). Obviously, though, this
can be influenced by variables, e.g., rate of collections on loans, which
constitute more than 50% of expected income from domestic sources, and the
amount of loan releases as they would be limited by availability of funds.
After the current FY, DBP expects its operations will result in surpluses
of about P 6 million (nearly $1 million) in FY 1972-73 and P 27 million
(US$4.2 million) in FY 1973-74.
23.       Dividend payments to Government and 20% of the net profit have
to be applied annually to the payment of the subscribed capital of Govern-
mentl/ until the P 2,000 million par value of capital stock is paid



ANNEX 15
Page 7
up. During the 1967-71 five-year period, this came to only P 31 million,
bringing the total up to P 390 million, or abouit 20% of the capital subscribed.
When considering the importance of DBP's liabilities, including contingent
ornes (para 20). this is too low.
24.       Defaults (Table 10).  The slow rate of loan recoveries has been a
constant problem with DBP and a matter of continuous concern to management.
Excluding loans in foreclosure, past-due amortizations for direct loans
range around 15 to 17% of total loan portfolios. Distributed by sectoral
lending, the highest percentage is in the industrial sector -- 19% -- followed
by real estate, 18%; agriculture, 14%; and Government, 6%. An average delin-
quency rate of around 15% on institutional agricultural credit in the Philip-
pines is not uncommon, e.g., the Rural Bank's experience ranges around 15%.
To some extent, the data analyzed do not reflect the true credit experience
of DBP because of its practice of rolling over or restructuring matured
loans. The extent of this has not been collated. DBP is endeavoring to
sort out its loarn repayment experience by computer analysis. However, the
system was not functioning at the time of appraisal, and detailed information
on age of delinquencies was not available.
25.       The most significant development during 1970-71 year was the es-
tablishment of a Committee on Defaults and the application of a tougher col-
lection policy. The first half of 1970 produced the poorest record of repay-
ments when collections were down to about P 15 million per month.  This,
though, more than doubled during 1971, with collections averaging about P 33
million per month. It is expected that this level will be maintained.
26.       About 3%, P 50 million, of DBP's direct loans are in foreclosure.
Percentagewise, this is about equally divided between agriculture and indus-
try, the major fields of sectoral lending. Usually one year is required to
consummate a foreclosure action and then the debtor has a one-year right
of redemption. DBP's reserves (reserves for contingencies and surplus)
have increased from P 66 million to P 113 million during the last five
fiscal years. During this period only about P 500,000 as uncollectable
bad debts were written off. Measured against the aggregate of loans in
foreclosure (P 50 million) and amount past due (P 287 million) reserves of
P 113 million would be adequate for possible losses on direct loans.
Financing (Table 11)
27.       Agriculture.  in keeping with national policy for agricultural
development and its role as a Government bank, DBP has directed its lending
to the support of national programs to increase the production of food crops
and animal proteins. Lending policies are influenced by economic guidelines
set up by the Central Bank, the National Economic Council (NEC), the National
Food and Agricultural Commission (NFAC), and the Fiscal Policy Committee of
Government. Traditionally, DBP's annual financing has been 20 to 25% for
agriculture, 65 to 70% for industry, and the balance for real estate
(principally low cost homes and hotels). Loans for agriculture cover the



ANNEX 15
Page 8
broad spectrum  1/:  food crops (principally rice and corn); commercial crops
(principally sugar and coconuts); livestock (principally poultry and hogs); and
salt beds and fishponds (principally fishponds). In general, the percentage
distribution by amount has been 30% food crops, 40% commercial crops, 20%
livestock, 10% fishponds, and miscellaneous. DBP's agricultural credit
experience covers some 150,000 loans since 1947. Annual lending in recent
years has ranged around 10,000 to 15,000 farm loans, but dropped to under
10,000 in 1969-70 and under 5,000 in 1970-71. The average size loan was about
P 6,000 in 1967 and P 7,500 in 1970. On an average, loans for food crops
have been under P 5,000; commercial crops, about P 7,500; and livestock,
about P 15,000. These averages imply that DBP's lending is principally to
medium and small size producers.
28.       Of importance to the Project is a feed grain program that would in-
tensify local production of corn, soybeans and sorghum. Credits, to be given
by DBP, of about P 7 million (US$1.1 million) are projected over the next
five years for production costs, machinery and equipment in certain priority
regions. This program was approved in July 1971 by DBP. Also to be noted
is DBP's policy adopted in 1971 of giving priority of lending to agriculture.
During the current fiscal year (1971-72), an agricultural lending program of
about P 100 million in new loans is projected. This would be about five times
the preceding fiscal year (about P 20 million in 1970-71) and about equal to
1968, the peak year.
29.       Terms of DBP loans range from one year for special production
credits, e.g., paddy and fertilizer to five to 10 years for capital invest-
ments. Although these terms are partially fixed by law for financing special
programs, they are primarily determined in the light of project requirements
and related security considerations. DSP's loan portfolio is not classified
with respect to loan terms. Long-term loans usually include a line of credit
for annual production expenses and the aggregate amount is amortized as a
long-term loan. This practice is being amended, which will certainly improve
the liquidity of the loan accounts. Interest rates until August 27, 1970
were 9% on loans up to P 100,000 and 10% on loans above this amount. Interest
rates are now 12%, irrespective of size of loans, except for those on which
lower interest rates are stipulated by law, e.g., 4% on loans to agricultural
school graduates who want to begin farming and 10% to rice and corn millers
on working capital loans. Additional penalty interest of 2% per month is
charged on past-due loan amortizations.
30.       DBP may accept, as loan collaterals, real estate, machinery,
livestock and leasehold rights on Government lands. Real estate may be ac-
cepted as security, provided it has either Torrens (full) title or was de-
clared for tax purposes continuously for 10 or more years, and the loan ap-
plicant and his predecessors in interest have been in continuous and uninter-
rupted possession for at least 10 years. DBP may take hard collateral for
50% of the loan and soft collateral, e.g., machinery and cattle, for the other
1/   Agro-industrial loans are classified under industrial loans.



ANNEX 15
Page 9
50%. The collateral problem may be particularly difficult for the hill beef
ranch type properties expected to be included in the Project since many are
held only under leasehold rights. Heretofore, the banks have considered that
pasture leases have no collateral value since the Government has certain
discretionary powers to terminate the lease prior to expiration date for
non-compliance with one of many lease conditions. However, late in 1970 the
Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources (DANR) undertook to revise
the current pasture regulations without the necessity of legislative action,
as follows:
(a) leases on pasture held by qualified and bona fide cattle
raisers, particularly recipients of livestock development
loans, shall run for a period of 25 years, automatically
renewable for another 25 years upon compliance with the
terms and conditions of the lease agreement and existing
pasture regulations;
(b) in the event of default on the part of the borrower, caus-
ing the financial institution to foreclose, such institu-
tion shall have the right to hold the leased pasture lands
for a period of five years, during which time there will
be a grace period on payment of annual rents; and
(c) the financing institution concerned may pass on any fore-
closed pasture lands to a new qualified cattle raiser, who
shall likewise be granted a lease on the property for a per-
iod of 25 years, automatically renewable for a period of
25 years upon compliance with the terms and conditions of
the lease agreement and existing pasture regulations.
Long-term leases may be granted by DANR to ranchers holding up to 2,000 ha.
The procedures, though, are burdensome and time-consuming, and, unless
prospective Project participants have acceptable leases, it is doubtful that
many would come into the Project starting from "scratch." Even though credit
may be given to certain fixed investments, the probability is low that
many straight lease holders would have sufficient collateral in their
leasehold rights to secure loans. Combined, however, with fee-owned land
or other real estate, it should be possible to finance the development
of a viable and creditworthy enterprise.
31.       Industry.  Financing of industry, loans, equity capital and guaran-
tees of supplier's credits has always been the major part of DBP's operations.
Straight loans to industry have accounted, on an average, for 60% of DBP's
total loans approved (P 2.5 billion) since 1947. Today, the percentage dis-
tribution of total outstanding loans is somewhat higher, being 75% in indus-
try, 15% in agriculture, and 10% in real estate and Government loans (Table
10). Since FY 1968, industry has also benefited from DBP's equity partici-
pation in preferred shares of 28 industrial enterprises. The portfolio of
equity investment in industry is about P 175 million. Food processing and
trade have been the biggest beneficiaries of credit, with the rice and corn



ANNEX 15
Page 10
sub-sectors receiving the largest share, followed by sugar and other food
processing industries.  In the manufacturing sector, textiles rank at the
top, followed by metal, cement and electrical industries. Loans categorized
tmedr publi,z utilities and services have also been important, particularly
for land transportation and shipping. Lending to large industry was sus-
pended in 1970-71, and, in 1971-72, it will be largely limited to branch bank
credits to comaunity industries that would have an impact on the local econ-
omy.
32.       Rall Estate and Construction.  This category comprises loans for
construction of low cost homes and public and commercial buildings. Loans
for low eus: housing have an upper limit of P 5,000, and DBP now has about
3,000. Other bigger items financed include about 45 hotels (P 15 million),
30 schoole (P 15 million), and one Government building (P 6 million).
33.       Government Loans.  During 1967-71, about 130 loans, totalling
P 65 million, were approved by provincial, city and municipal governments.
Loans were made for about 85 markets and slaughterhouses (P 30 million),
heavy equipment and machinery (P 6 million), 15 waterworks (P 20 million),
and two telephone systems (P 3 million), and the balance went for miscellan-
eous purposes.
34.       The Greater Manila Terminal Food Market (GMTFM).  In September
1967, DBP was given the responsibility by Government to promote, develop and
operate a combined producer transit-wholesale market complex.  This is a
large-sciL_ vexiture intended to serve the farmers/producers and the wholesale
trades in providing storage facilities and related grading and marketing ser-
vies. Located on 120 ha, about 20 miles south of Manila, (MTFM is intended
to become mn  entrepot, a vast storage and distribution center for produce
such as rice, cereals, fruits, vegetables, poultry, fish and meat, serving
initially some 1 million farmers from 27 principal supplier provinces in
Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao Regions.
35.       The enterprise has been formally set up as a corporation, with
authorized capital of P 100 million (US$16 million), of which P 20 million
has been subscribed, almost entirely by DBP. While the initial cost was esti-
mated at P liC million, total capital cost may reach P 300 million
(US$47  iylco, which, plus administrative and interest costs, could bring
the total aionut to about P 500 million (US$78 million) in five years.  About
on;-thIra, uf tte construction work has been completed and initial projections
cf completion fLn 1971 will need to be rescheduled.  This is, as yet, the
greatest s-4gle industrial venture promoted by DBP, which places great res-
ponsibil:tnes on the institution.  Its final success will depend largely on
DBP's capabillties to marshall the organizational and managerial talent and
profesLiGaa&. know-how, as well as on the amount of cooperation and financial
support it Aill receive from the Government.
36.       Private Development Banks (PDB).  DBP is empowered (Section 1,
Charter) to promote the establishment of private development banks in prov-
inces and cities. Assistance by DBP is given through the subscription of



ANNEX 15
Page 11
preferred sharea of stock 1/ and rediscount privilegap.  s4nce inception of
the program in 1960, 30 banks have been established aad 29 are operatirg.
Twenty-two are in the Central Luzor. Region, five in th- Visayas Region and
two in the Mindanao Region. The banks are quite heavily clustered in the
greater Manila area. As of May 31, 1971, total resources aggregated about
P 173 million (average P 6 million); loans, P 140 million (average L 4.8
million); and deposits, P 140 million (P 2.7 million) (Table 12). Agricul-
tural lending principally to rice, corn, poultry, swine, coconut and sugar,
accounts for about 60% of portfolio. Small industrLes account for around
30% of the balance for miscellaneous loans. Interest rate is 12% and loan
terms are three to 10 years, depending on the nature of enterprise and kinds
of investments being financed. Production credit may be provided under terms
of up to two years. Agricultural loans are P 5,000 to P 6,000 on average.
37.       DBP has invested about P 25 million in the PDE system as preferred
shares and another P 25 million rediscounted notes.  Medium- and long-term
credit paper is rediscounted at 8% interest and represents nearly 20% of the
total loan portfolio for PDBs. Eligibility criteria for rediscounts aye
those laid down by NEC, namely:  (a) products that would increase food suffi-
ciency; (b) products that are export oriented, as well as dollar saving on
imports; (c) products that would serve as raw material for local industry;
and (d) projects that would provide job opportunities.
38.       Given the closeness of many PDBs to Project areas and the familiar-
ity that management has with local farmers, as well as with production and
social conditions, it would be desirable to have several of the banks par-
ticipating in the Project. It appears that PDBs would be legally eligible
to participate as on-lending institutions under the Project, and DBP would
be agreeable to such an arrangement. It is estimated that about four to
six banks would participate. Their selection would be the responsibility
of DBP. Technical services would be provided by the banks that either have,
or would be willing to employ, a qualified agricultural technician. Most
banks have appraisers, but it would be the responsibility of the Project
unit in DBP to qualify them, train them and supervise their work. In the
event that such an arrangement would not be feasible for a particular bank,
DBP would provide the technical services on a contract-cost basis.
Role of DBP in the Project
39.       By Republic Act 4860 and amended Republic Act 6142, November 9,
1970, Government may contract with governments with whom the Philippines
has diplomatic or trade relations or which are members of the United Nations,
their agencies, instrumentalities or financial institutions or with reputable
international organizations . Section 1(b) of the R.A. 6142 stipulates that
the proceeds of such loans, credits or indebtedness shall be lent to
government-owned or controlled corporations to finance development projects.
Section 1(c) further provides that the proceeds shall be lend to DBP at least
for the principal, interest and other charges agreed to by Government and,
furthermore, DBP shall administer the proceeds in accordance with the agree-
ment with the foreign creditor "for relending to cooperatives, private



ANNEX 15
Page 12
corporations, or associations, whose capital stock, if not fully subscribed,
is open to subscription by the general public to meet the direct and indirect
foreign exchange requirements as well as up to twenty per centum of the peso
costs for such industrial, and agricultural and other economic development
projects, subject to the provisions of the charter, rules and regulations
of said bank and to the terms and conditions agreed upon by the government
and institution providing financing for the projects."
40.       Of importance to probable participation in the Project is the
requirement that sub-borrowers would be only cooperatives, private corporations
or associations. Government's legal opinion is that individuals would be
ineligible but could qualify if they formed an association, i.e., partnership.
DBP and Government have assured the Bank that the legal requirements for
forming partnerships would be simple and minimal, and little constraint in
Project participation is envisaged.
41.       DBP would gain under the Project, as well as under Loan 720-PH
(Rice Processing and Storage Facilities), new operational experience that
would improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its agricultural credit
services, and, in turn, would support an aspect of institutional building
that undoubtedly would have a complementary effect on its other credit
operations.
March 3, 1972



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION   DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES IDBP)
BOAED OF GOVERNOES
GENEAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DE      N  OF I.................T............I......................  DEPAITMENT  F JUSTICE .
OFFICE OF. SPCIAL        OFFICE OF SPECIAL             o   ON
ECONOMIC  ASSISTANCE   ON          A~~~~SSEITALNRJCE               SITNC O                 SITC OF,                ELN 
RETTARCIL   X UNI      ESEARCI                SPECIAL FE-AET                                                                   TVE  PNT  N
SING ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~EVIIGFRE-TM
OR  GOVERNOR                                     GOVERNOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0G                                                                                            OVRNR
~~~~~~~ DEPARTMENT COLCTO 
1'                                                             NM
.UDITING  _LARFETING                                                                   ERANC.ES ..REAL ESTATE
RANKS    DEPARTMENT                                                                             DEEPRPARTMENT                             '.EN                                              E'B'AEN
CL_LER.ICAL
IENDE  A PROGRAM                            POOL
W-AdO EA-EL   607212R)






ANNEX 15
Table 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP -- Members of the Board of Directors (June 30, 1971)
Term of   Departmental             Resume of
Director        ,e  Office Responsibilities        Biographical Data
Leonides S. Virata  53  3/6/70-  Chairman of   Graduate University of Philip-
12/16/74   Board, Chief pines, MBA Harvard University
Executive     Representative, Philippine Gov-
Officer       ernment, in exile in Washington,
D.C. Economic Advisor an_ Ex-
ecutive Secretary of Philippine
UN Delegation 1945-48. Director
of Economic Research of the new-
ly established (1949) Central
Bank; acting deputy governor
and member of Monetary Board
until 1952. Financial vice-
president and vice chairman of
the Philippine American Life In-
surance Company; board member of
several industrial firms. Pres-
ident, 1965-66, of the Philip-
pine Chamber of Industries.
Jose V. De Ocampo    49  2/9/68-  Full-time       LL.B Studies in economics, bank-
12/16/73   Supervising   ing and financing.  EDI Fellow
Governor:     of IBRD 1961-62.  Practicing at-
GMTFM, Indus- torney 1952-55. With DBP since
trial Depart- 1964. Head of Investment Bank-
part, Invest- ing and Economic Research. Di-
ment Banking  rector of numerous industrial
Department    corporations.
Recio M. Garcia      54  3/16/71  Full-time      LL.B. High level positions in
Supervising   banking and finance -- former
Governor:     chairman and president Quezon
Department    City Development Bank; Vice-
of Develop-   chairman:  Homeowners Finance
ment and       Corp., and Citizens Develop-
Rural Banks, ment Inc.; Chairman of three
Real Estate   utility companies.  Director
and Govern-   of six corporations in which
ment Loan      DBP has financial holdings.
Departments.



ANNEX 15
Table 2
Page 2
Term of      Departmental                 Resume of
Director     A   Office    Responsibilities             Biographical Data
Jose R. Tengco   41  5/19/67-       Full-time       LL.B. Several directorships
12/16/71      Supervising    in transport, machinery and
Governor:       food companies.  Formerly
Assigned to    assistant vice-president
Chairman's      and manager of Legal and
Office          Collections Department,
Philippine Bank of Commerce.
Member, Philippine Delegation
to IMF and IBRD Annual
Meetings, 1969, 1970 and 1971.
Jose S. Estevez  51 11/20/67        Part-time       MD, LL.B. Presently (1971)
12/16/72      Governor         Governor, Albay Province.
Low-cost        Extensive experience in
Housing,        government and civic affairs.
NHC, Programfs  Frequent delegate to inter-
agri. loans,   national conferences and
Brunches and   seminars.
agencies, small
scale and medium
size Industries.
Leon 0. Ty        61  3/9/66-       Part-time       Member of Philippine Bar.
12/6/72       Governor         Extensive experience in
Labor-Manage-  journalism, publications,
ment and Union radio and T.V.  Member,
Affairs,        Philippine Delegation to
Publications   IBRD Annual Meeting, 1967.
and Advertising
Alejandro Melchor 41 12/18/70       Part-time       Attended U.S. schools,
Governor        graduate of U.S. Naval
Academy, Annapolis, 1952.
Since February 1970, Execu-
tive Secretary to the
President. Previously,
Under-secretary of National
Defense and, concurrently,
Director General for Opera-
tions, PES. Broad experience
in economic planning, develop-
ment and programming. Has
served on various special
missions abroad and is
Alternate Governor, IBRD.
March 3, 1972



ANNEX 15
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP Agricultural Department Staffing Positions (April 30, 1971)
Office of the Manager                           Appraisal Division
1 Manager                                       1 Chief Appraiser
2 Assistant Managers                            2 Assistant Chief Appraisers
1 Special Agent                                 4  Supervising Appraisers
4  Agricultural Supervisors                     7  Senior Appraisers
1 Administrative Assistant                      3  Junior Appraisers
1 Messenger-Janitor                             1  Senior Record Clerk
10                                               1 Clerk-Typist
9-
Field Supervisors Division
Branches & Agencies Division
1 Chief Field Supervisor
3 Assistant Chief Field Supervisors             1 Chief
5  Supervising Specialists                      1 Assistant Chief
15  Field Supervisors (at large)                 3  Senior Loan Examiners
3 Agricultural Field Supervisors                3 Loan Examiners
1 Agricultural Statistician                     8
1 Research Aide
1  Statistical Aide                            Accounts & Records Division
1 Junior Stenographer
31                                                1 Chief
1 Assistant Chief
Loan Division                                     1 Chief Records Clerk
1 Senior Accounts Examiner
1 Chief                                         1 Junior Accounts Examiner
2 Assistant Chiefs                              2  Senior Records Clerks
4  Senior Loan Examiners                         1  Senior Action Clerk
1 Loan Applications Examiner                    1 Clerk-Typist
4  Loan Examiners                                1 Records Clerk
1 Senior Action Clerk                           2  File Clerks
1 Clerk Stenographer                            1 Messenger
T4                                              TY
Total -- 95
Note: The above listing does not include about 125 agriculturists attached
to branch and agency offices.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 15
PHILIPPINES                       Table 4
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DB' -- Condensed Annual Balance Sheet, FY 1967-71
(P million)
1967  1968    1969    1970  1971
ASSETS
Cash and Due from Banks                  174   238       226      156   113
Investments in Securities                107   170       253      248   301
Loans, Advances and Acquired Assets:
Agricultural (net)                     278   330       374     408   410
Industrial (net)                       767   963   1,111   1,438 1,994
Real Estate & Miscellaneous            101   118       152     201   250
Stocks and Advances -- PDB's               46    47       49       48    50
Miscellaneous Investments                  30    41       59       96   105
Bank Premises                             27    38        47       51    54
Total Assets -- Bank Proper    1,530 1,945   2,271   2,646 3,277
Trust Funds                               163   164      170      176   180
Grand Total                            1,693 2,109                    3,457
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Liabilities
Medium and Long-term:  Foreign           287   284       211      175   330
: Domestic         475   635      809      897 1,041
Short-term:  Foreign                     -      -        -         30   -
: Domestic                     35    51      100      269   213
Progress Bonds Outstanding                147   247      327      496   475
Time and Savings Deposits                  74   209      227      112   348
Special Funds:
NFAC Guarantee Fund                    -      -        -         6      6
Stabilization Tax Proceeds             -      -       -         25   166
Interest and Accounts Payable             76    70/1   129/1   122   169
Deferred Credits                           11   -                  24    26
Total Liabilities                 1,105 1,496   1,803   2,156 2,774
Net Worth
Capital Stock Paid-in                    359   367       375     384   390
Surplus                                   61    76        86      97   103
Reserves for Contingencies                        6        7        9    10
Total Net Worth                     425   449      468      490   503
Total Liabilities and Net Worth --
Bank Proper                          1,530 1,945   2,271   2,646 3,277
Trust Funds                              163   164       170     176   180
Grand Total                 /2                                 2,822 3,457
Ratio of Net Worth to Debt4- --
Bank Proper                          1:2.6 1:3.3   1:3.8   1:4.4 1:5.5
Net Worth Percentage -- Bank Proper   28    23           21       18    15
/1   Included in Interest and Accounts Payable.
T7   Inclusion of guarantees of P 2,400 million (para 22) as a contingent li-
ability would mean total liabilities of P 5,200 million, making ratio of
Net Worth to Debt of 1:10.4. Expressed another way the Net Worth Per-
centage would be about 10%.
Source: DBP.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 15
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP - Schedule of Installments on Regular Guarantee
US$ Dollars        Pesos
(million)      (million)
Prior to June 30, 1971                27.9           24.9
July to December 1971                40.4             5.1
January to June 30, 1971              34.5            4.6
FY 1972-73                           49.2             1.6
1973-74                           50.1            1.8
1974-75                           39.2            1.8
1975-76                           33.5            1.1
1976-77                           30.2             -
1977-78                           25.1             -
1978-79                           19.3             -
1979-80                           14.5             -
1980-81                            7.3             -
1981-82                            5.9              -
1982-83                            1.9             -
1983-84                            1.3             -
1984-88                             .4              -
Guarantees with schedule of
payments not yet drawn up           5.1              -
Unavailed of portions already
included in schedule              (52.5)
Total                               333.3             40.9
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 15
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP - Schedule of Payments on CCC and CWB Credit
CCC Line - $70,000,000.00
CWB Line - $18,000,000.00
PL 480 Line $18,415,000.00
(Based on Availments up to June 30, 1971)
Principal and Interest
US Dollars       Pesos /1
(million)
Prior to June 30, 1971                                 6.912           44.928
FY    1971-72                                   22.876           148.694
1972-73                                   21.640           140.660
1973-74                                   14.600            94.900
1974-75                                     .368             2.392
1975-76                                    1.703            11.070
1976-77                                    1.669            10.848
1977-78                                    1.634            10.621
1978-79                                    1.600            10.400
1979-80                                    1.565            10.173
1980-81                                    1.531             9.952
1981-82                                    1.496             9.724
1982-83                                    1.462             9.503
1983-84                                    2.820            18.330
1984-85                                    1.358             8.827
1985-86                                    1.323             8.600
1986-87
1987-88
1988-89                                    1.289             8.379
1989-90                                    1.254             8.151
1990-91                                    1.220             7.930
1991-92                                    1.185             7.703
/1   At P 6.50 to US$1.00.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 15
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP - Condensed Statement of Annual Earnings, FY 1967-71
(P million)
1967  1968  1969  1970  1971
EARNINGS
Interest - Agricultural Loans         14.4  18.2  20.7  25.1   28.3
Interest - Industrial Loans           61.9  67.9  83.1  82.6  115.2
Interest - Real Estate and
Miscellaneous Loans                  7.5   8.3  10.9  11.3   17.6
Interest - Dividends on
Securities                           4.5   8.7  14.9  18.9   19.6
Income from Trust Funds                1.0   1.0   1.1   1.0    1.1
Miscellaneous Bank Fees                 -      -   17.6  33.9   31.1
Other Earnings                        15.1  34.7  20.2  28.7   19.0
Total                           104.4 138.8 168.5 201.5  231.9
EXPENSES
Salaries and Employees
Benefits                            20.4  28.6  32.8  36.7   45.3
Other Administrative Expenses         11.8  12.5  15.1  15.4   16.9
Interest Expenses                     44.3  64.9  84.0 113.0  149.3
Provision for Income Tax               8.2  10.2  13.7  13.2    7.6
Total                            84.7 116.2 145.6 178.3  219.1
Net Income Before Reserve             19.7  22.6  22.9  23.2   12.8
Reserve for Contingencies              1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2    1.2
Net Income - Bank Proper              18.5  21.4  21.7  22.0   11.6
Net Income - Trust Funds               6.1   6.4   7.1   6.4    7.2
24.6  27.8  28.8  28.4   18.8
Net Income as a Percent of
Net Worth                            5.8   6.2   6.1   5.7    3.7
Source:   DBP
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 15
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP - Costs and Returns on Average Annual Loan Portfolio and Investments,
FY 1967-71
(P billion)
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971
Average Loan Portfolio
and Investments                   1.227  1.500  1.653  1.036   2.774
Gross Income                        0.104  0.139  0.169  0.202   0.232
Percentage of Loans and
Investments                       8.5    9.2   10.2    9.9        8.3
Expenses
Interest                            0.044  0.065  0.084  0.113   0.149
Percentage of Loans and
Investments                       3.6    4.3    5.1    5.5        5.4
Administration and Other
Expenses                          0.032  0.041   .048  0.052   0.062
Percentage of Loans and
Investments                       2.6    2.7    2.9    2.6        2.2
Total Expenses                      0.076  0.106  0.132  0.165   0.211
Percentage of Loans and
Investments                       6.2    7.0    8.0    8.1        7.6
Net Income /1                        0.028  0.33   0.37   0.37    0.020
Percentage of Loans and
Investments                       2.3    2.2    2.2    1.8        0.7
/1   Before provision for taxes and reserves.
October 13, 1971



ANNEX 15
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP PROJECTED CASH FLOW - FY 1971-72 TO FY 1973-74
(P Millions)
FY 1971-72    FY 1972-73    FY 1973-74
A. DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
Receipts
Loan Collections                             360.0          444.4           450.9
Export Tax Proceeds                          105.5           85.7            55.1
Investment in Bonds and Securities -
Collateral Preferred Shares                  13.2           17.6            26.4
Other Receipts                               156.3 V         24.0            24.0
635.0          571.7           556.4
Disbursements
Administrative Expenses                       58.1           69.0            72.5
Repayment of Maturing Obligations            349.6          176.o          140.7
Loan Releases                                180.0          240.0           240.0
Equity Investments                            12.0           12.0            12.0
Other Disbursements                           30.6           36.8            35.8
630.3          533.8           501.0
Surplus (Deficit) - Domestic Operations          4.7           37.9            55.4
B. FOREIGN OPERkTIONS
Receipts
Collections on Guarantees:
Advances                                    100.7          165.4           151.6
Current Maturities                         296.6           300.3          306.3
Collections on CCC, PL 480 and CWB Lines 261.4              282.7          321.4
Other Receiots                               110.9            9.6             3.9
769.6          758.0          783.2
Disbursement - Repayments on
Foreign Loans (Direct)                        42.0           67.5          4h.2
Domestic Loans - Advance fror. CB, Sec.
90       99.6            13.7            0.5
Guaranteed Loans: - Regular                  514.1i         396.5           404.1
- CCC, PL 480, CVB       129.7          313.5           366.o
785.L          791.2          811.8
Surplus (Deficit) - Foreign Operations         (15.8)          33.2           (28.6)
C. OVERALL SURPLUS (DEFICIT) - DOMESTIC AND
FOREIGN UPERAT:ONS                            (11.1)           4.7            26.8
Source: DBP
1/ Includes increased deposits, CB advances, sale of Escolta and Tagayty buildings,
March 3, 1972



ANNEX 15
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DBP - Past Due Loans and Loans in Litigation, June 30, 1971
(P million)
A. Past Due
Amount of      % Past Due of
Amount          Installme75s          Amount   12
Sector        Outstanding-         Past Due-       Outstanding  /
Agricultural            370                   29 /2          7.8./2
Industrial            1,200                 229             19.0
Real Estate              44                    8            18.2
Government               54                    3             5.5
Total            1,668                 269             16.1
B. Loans in Litigation
A^mount in    Amount                   Amount in Liti-
Sector          Litigation  Outstanding  Total   gation is of Total
Agricultural /3            11          370         381             2.9
Industrial                  3.4      1,200       1,234             2.8
Real Estate                5            44          49             8.2
Government                 -            54          54              -
Total                50        1,668        1,718            3.0
/1   Includes amount of unmatured principal and matured installments.
/2   The P 29 million shown as past due is only for the head office loans.
Data were not available on the amount past due in the branches.
Assuming that this would amount, the percentage would be around P 10
million, the percentage past due would be about 10%. This would be
in keeping with information obtained by the mission from several
branch offices that it visited.
/3   Approximately 1,500 loans out of 55,000 active loans.
March 3, 1972



PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H
A. DBP - Annual Outstanding Loan Volume by Sector, FY 1967-71
(P million)
1967                 1968                 1969                  1970                  1971
Sector             Amount  % of Total  Amount  % of Total  Amount  $ of Total  Amount  % of Total  Amount  % of Total
Agriculture                278        24         330       23         374        23         408       20         410        15
Industry                   767        67         963       68       1,111        68      1,438        70       1,994        75
Real Estate
and Miscellaneous          101         9         118         9        152         9         201        10        250        10
Total               1,146      100       1,111       100       1,637      100       2,o47       100       2,654       100
B. DBP - Annual Releases of Loans by Sector, F! 1967-71
(P million)
1967                 1968                 1969                  1970                   1971
Sector             Amount  % of Total  Amount  % of Total  Amount  % of Total  Amount  % of Total  Amount   % of Total
Agriculture                 63        22          91        22         79        20          68        10         39         5
Industry                   188        66         293       69         225        56         283        42        193        21
Real Estate
and Miscellaneous           35        12          38         9         57        14          48         7          32        3
Subtotal-Loans             286         -         422         -        361        90         399        59         264       29
Advances on Guarantees       -         -           -         -         43        10         275        41         665        71
Total                 286       100        422       100         404       100        674       100         929       100
Source: DBP



PHILIPPINES
0                                                                    LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Data on Private Development Banks, May 31, 1971
(P 000)
DBP Exposure
Date Opened         Total           Capital       Rediscount      Total        Total
H           Development Bank            Location             for Business       Resources      Assistance        Loans          Loans      Deposits        Remarks
Agro-Industrial          Guagua, Pampanga          7- 3-60          12,042           1,000           1,104          9,445       7,222
Bacolod City             Bacolod City             11-30-64           5,838           1,000           1,178         4,829        1,997
Batangas                 Balayan, Batangas        10- 9-61           2,803             500             -            2,161         903    Data as of 3-31-71
Batangas Capitol         Batangas City             9-21-69           1,399             500             150            984         220
Bulacan                  San Miguel, Bulacan       5-15-61           6,920             500           1,060         4,677        4,220
Second Bulacan           Meycauayan, Bulacan       2-26-62          14,588             900           1,864         11,763       9,966
Cabanatuan City          Cabanatuan City          10- 2-61           2,379             500                8         1,841         425    Data as of 4-30-71
Cavite City              Cavite City              10-12-63          14,453           1,300           2,205         11,877       9,172
Cebu City                Cebu City                 1-15-62           4,032             720             475         3,161        1,897
Development Bank
of the South          Cebu City                 12-28-63           3,081             500             450         2,070        1,641
Danao City               Danao City, Cebu          1- 2-68           2,828             400             461          2,237       1,175
Davao City               Davao City                2-20-65           4,789             550             800         4,050        1,892
Ilocos Sur               Vigan, Ilocos Sur         2- 1-68           1,389             500             -              485         331    Data as of 4-30-71
Iloilo City              Iloilo City              11- 5-62           4,551             835             762         3,217        1,239
Laguna                   Calamba, Laguna           5- 6-61           7,764           1,000           1,437          5,677       2,831
Second Laguna            Binan, Laguna             6-25-63           8,829             500             911          7,547       6,163
La Union                 San Fernando, L U         2-13-65            2,817            500             604          2,241         857
Lipa City                Lipa City, Batangas    10-25-59             7,112           1,629           1,040          6,421       1,023
San Pablo City           San Pablo City            2- 1-62            1,988            500             176          1,681         700
Second Pampanga          San Fernando, Pampanga  6-20-61             4,977             600             733          4,443       2,090
Pangasinan               Dagupan City             11-29-66            1,259            500               90         1,045         192
Pasay City               Pasay City                7-18-60           9,517           1,100           1,381          7,923       3,819
Quezon                   Lucena City               3-11-61            8,582          1,190            1,764         7,099       3,737
Quezon City              Quezon City              10-22-60            8,775          1,950            1,718         6,785       2,528
Capitol City             Quezon City               1- 7-63            6,616            620            1,288         3,889       3,533
Second Rizal             Caloocan City             1-30-61            9,932          1,950           2,564          8,046       2,139
Third Rizal              Makati, Rizal             5-25-61            7,811          1,000              767         5,941       4,499
Tarlac                   Tarlac, Tarlac           11-19-62            1,553            500              119           924         265
Zambales                 Olongapo City             9-20-67           4,575           1,000              -           3,567       2,370
T      o t a 1                                           173,1 37        24, 244              8136026               79,026
Source: DBP



N                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LTVETO34CKI 109VE19N6FN2 PROJECT
SOURCE OP FINDS                                                                 _ 2                                                                                                  2             10            11            L2             13         14
DBP ru-do for
Par  Loans and Slo-goeht-h--                               4.668         10).472       j2.441          3.329         0.793         0.167
I20D Loan for:
Pans Loans 52  Slnsghterh--so                              6.712        1bl1C          17.9P,94       4.boc          i.o49         0.229
Technical Serice                                           0. 774         0.768         0.586          0.561         0.135         0.050
S.b-total                                              7.486        10.945        i8.68o         51.361         1.134          0.284
Espay-et of Louse.:
Iutcgrated Cscssct/Bsef Fsttusiuc                            -            3.003         9.0734        4. 102         0.215         0.386          0.702         3.614           0.439           - 
Intograted Co-ot/Bsef Brreding/Fstt-ss                                                  0,2ill        0.755          1.201         1.980          1.990         1.880           1.703         1.237            ----
11611 Beet' Cattle Breding  no-h-s                            -OP                       0 100          s.246         0.468         o.768          1.076         1.513           i.678         4.252          0.594                                
Pig Brsding/Ftt-ei rig                                                    3.)9      ~     01            .155        3).8907        9.912          9.13.260                      4.130            -----
Polty-  ril-rc                                                      0. 6,,5                      3.1751        3.175          3.175         3.175         2.5410          1.272                                                              
Poultry - layer                                                           O. 180          73           5.064         8.o74         6.055          3.025           -               -              -             ----
Slscgirht-hse-                                                -             )8          n.L4 17        3.698         1.231         1.367          1.503         i.463           i.423         1.389          0,915         0.454- 
Sob- total                              -             duo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. 13   730        24.27         23.23          0.473         15. 37,0        10.673          3.878         1.50(9o.8--
Total                                                 IP17.1          262          39~ 01        20 68         ItOr271        24.094        21.473         18.370         10.673          3.878          1.509         2. 4'~4 
Pans Loan  cud SlsoghtcrBu--r                                11.3~73       't 629        30. '3:         3.173f        7.8547,       0 .38
Technical Services:
Fi--nrd by D22                                              .7.74         o.y86         o.s86          3.,561        0.132         0.055
Fissurd by IB00                                            11.774         0.738         0.786           .51          0.135         0).0~4
Repsuo.nuts Is osv-rs:et:
TO3RT IonsP Baeets  )/-                                                    .23            .35          1.995         3Gb1          3.0±4          8.107         9.]n            3.077          8.4107        3.442847 00                              47(
D)20 O-ehe-  Cos- 7/                                            -            .75           0875          i.47s         1.420)         7.190         0.912)         o. 6oo          3.50          0.300Q         0.200         0.100          0.100      0.120
Cash So-plus  3D0ei7c0<                                      30.7741)        '.17          570I        13.213         t49-i7        i8.)536       I0173          7.34            2.4,73       34.0223        4r.0913       (8.046)        (8.5o00    34.302)
Tota.l                                                                                           2615   5.6888.9   2.8   6.205l  24.034     21.473         16. s3O         50.673          3501.509)                    o.476-
Coslati-c OaoB Sorplo-  (Tofi-t)   J'                      Is.774)       3D.457,        8,.243        1376          35.fl5         o7.4±I        63~.074       77.31"          73.117         74.2095       o7.204         59.153         30.658    46.358
I/   Assoulug 18  ~. pea  lua  il,rldig O~sr f gr-ce, 7.251% is-tecs  per scum.
3     roc rs-r Forplc    3cr0  4-o   pecood, 724~ coot  rer-os  ~tI  :o,rhto                f sho>t 513± cit11o-  -rd  -11  coslaco o5-t.                     d3lIo  c  jltics to the- reL    th--ug.orc, Lo, c,-over  It .cc.e  su  profits.






0                                                                                                     PO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ocea icla  Roes of Rdore
7%                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(8' 001)
MDEDL                                            D-vlop-tl                               2            3                                                   7.           8                         10            11             12-19            20
1.  INTEGRATED COCONUT/B1EEF CATTLE FATTENING -5 '[A
Sae.1..................3.38                                                              3.38        4.05         5.99         8.42         9.36         9.81        10.26        18.71        11.16         11.16          11.16          11.16            13.08 1/
Oporeting Costs.   ...........2.35                                                       2.35         2.33          .3          1.-77        7.,4         5 04         3.04        5.04          5.04          5.59          5 04            5 04            5 04
In-st-tl...................-                                                             3.06         <.2         3.3            .25          -                         -------
Isar,oetol Pino..rtol BoTheR -..........(3.06)                                                       ,<.Ob)       [1.f4:       -.34          3.203       3.74         4.19         4.64          5.09          4.54          5.09           3.09             7.01
Fteanilo  Rate of RetoR:  36%~
2. INTEGRATED COCONIT/BEEP CATTLE 8REE5TOC/
FATTENING - 15 HA
Sae.-.....................                                         13.50                13.10        14.18        11.45        21.20        24.35        25.70        27.75       29.10        30.43          31.80         31.80           31.90           59.7801
Oper..tleg Costs .......... .....3.92                                                    3,92         3.92         3.3 C2       8.14         8.62         8.88         9,29         9.29         9.29         10.94          9.29            9.29             9.29
1notost .   ................-                                                           21.98    9.07              31                                                                                                                           
Inore-eto  P~isa.cril Bsl-r .  ........-                                               (21.98)       (8.39)          2t         3.48         6.15         7.24         8.88       10.23         11.58         11.28         12.93           12.93           31.83
Finanifl Role of Retort: 197.
3. HILL BEEF CATTLE BANCH - 600 HA
Soe.1     ....................                                     34.66                34.64        27.90        30.11        38.02        63.24        78.34       107.20      115.58        115.58        115.38        113.39          115.58          323.58 .1/
Opera.ting Costs.................                                  16.13                06.13        16.13        16,L3        20.47        20.68        21.13        21.46        21.46        21.48         21.46         21.46           21.46            21.46
....seat ...................-                                                          59.46        51.44        64.33        42.57          -            -            -            -            -              -             -               --
.I.or...eta1 Elnoenll 8ol-.oe        ..I......                       -                (35.46)      (58.20)       6.3)        (43.55)       21.03        38.68        67,21        75.59        75.59         75.59          75.59          72.59           283.59
Finan-lo Role of Return: 217.
4. FlG BE1EEDING/FATTENINGE - 25 S085
Solos.45.62                                                                             45.30       100.41       114.50       114.50'      114.20       114.50       114.50      514.30        114.50        114.50        114.50          114.50           147.67 1/
OpertIn   Cots-c7                                                                                                87.o3        37.73         37.73       37.73         37.73       07.73        37.73          87.73         87.73           37.73           87. 73
Ineseot-                                                                                 67          IL.))                                    -----                                                                                              
Incre-Co.o  tOoa-ROo  Boloe- .  ........-(46.35)                                                      L.70-       14.53         07           60          16.33        16.3         11.33        36.53         16.53i        16.33           16'.33           4.70
Flso_nlo1 Rote of Ret:irr:  73*
5. RIG PRODUCTION - 6,080 HEN1 CAPACITY
Soe.1......................                                       96.66                 96.66      231.15       260.00        290.00       280.00       290.00       290.00       290.00       290.00        353.00 2/
Opartieg Costs .0........   .....                                   2.50                72.50       17<.ot~      317.50       217.50       217.20       217.50       217.50       217.50       217.50        217.50
Ieeteen. ...................-                                                           81.24    1".~               -            -            -            -            .-                        -              -
lerrenetal  PFea-stl OSlon-   ..........181.24)                                                      15.20        48.34        48.34        48.34        48.34        48.34        48.34        48.34        I11. 34
Fina-ial Rote of Relte-: 472.
Isles.~~~~~~                                                         ~~~~~~~      ~~~~91.00  164.26  182.00  182.80  282.00  082.00    182.00       182.00       182.00       182.80         274.66 7/
Operating Cooto.60.05                                                           143.7 :  I   160.30       160.30       060.30       160.30       160.30       160.30       160.30        160.30        160.38
Inreena   ..oo.a   -So      .........o.                                         (2.8.7)       10.85        10.85        10.85        10.85        10.85        10.65        10.85        11.85        103.31
Plnaiel1 Rote of Robin: 673
7. SLAUIRTER)IOOSE DAILY CAPACITY 20 IIEAS OP
CATTLE ADD 200 HEAD OP PIGS
Soe.--......................25,573.80  27,438.80  27,430.00  27,430.00  27,430.00  77,430.00  27,430.08   27.430.00   27,430.00    27,430.00    27,450.00                                                                                                27.450.00 3/
opero.tlog Costs.................--                                                              24,13<'.>3  25,766.80  25,766.00  25,766.00  25,766.00   25,766.00  25,766.00  25,766.00    25,766.00    25,766.00                     25.766.00        19,324.58
nesen.......................                                                               1 V7:,.03          -                  -                                -            -            -              -             ---
Oere     --alPlos 1o Beloe- ....                                              1,440.00) (3,4331.3<,  1.664.80    1,664.00    1,664.00    1,664.00    1,664.00    1,664.00    1,661.00               1,664.00       1,664.00       1,664.00         8,123.30
Eln-ecto  Rate of Retort:  23%
I/  In-ledieg EnE--etal herd cain.
2/I-osifng Ei- -esto1 flock  -1-n.
c'lcnd   he poise of lomi, 






ANNEX 18
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic rate of return of the Project was calculated on the
basis of data shown in Table 1. Key assumptions and adjustments made were:
(a) that the prices of investment and operating cost items,
in real terms, would remain at current price levels;
(b) that the prices of all outputs, in real terms, would
remain at current price levels; this assumption is
based on price projections for meat;
(c) that the official rate of exchange is equal to the shadow rate
of exchange because the peso is relatively free to float
in foreign exchange markets since the spring of 1970;
(d) that the opportunity cost of labor, with the exception of
labor engaged in slaughterhouses, is 25% of the minimum
wage required by law because much of this labor is
presently unemployed;
(e) that the opportunity cost of labor operating slaughterhouses
is equal to the financial wage because this is skilled
labor that at present is not underemployed;
(f)  incremental herd values were credited to the Project .-t: ilvt
A_ I  '   life of the investments which varies from 10
years for poultry to 20 years for beef cattle, pigs and
slaughterhouses;
(g) all DBP administrative and technical services provided to
the Project were charged to the Project; and
(h) taxes, which would be transfer payments, were not charged
to the Project because no service was performed.
2.        Based on these assumptions, the econmic rate of return would be
about 36%. Should actual incremental production be valued at 10% less,
due either to a drop in all output prices or a short-fall in physical
production, and concurrently should feed grain prices drop by 10% from
current levels, the economic rate of return would be about 30%. Should
investment costs be 10% higher than projected, the economic rate of
return would be about 33%.
November 5, 1971






o                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPFINES
I.TVESTOCX DEVELOPMENFT FPROJECT
SonrY Econoic Rate of Return Calculatfena
2     3             4            3             4            2             8 ~~~49                     10            11              12            13-19             20
INCREMENTAL FINANCIAL BENEIFTS
1.  Cape .-........................0.03                                                             0.13         0.40          0.68         1.04          1.40         1.76          2.12          2.46           2.76            2.93            2.93           2.93
2.  Beef tattle.-..................(0.03)                                                          (0.04)        0.22          1.08         2.40          3.25         3.77          4.23          4.32           4.32           4.32             4.32          13.68
3.P FEe(0.03)                                                                         5.40         20.51        37.61        41.33         41.33        41.33         41.33         41.33         41.33         41.33           41.33            41.33          61.233
4.Broilers.3.66....11.08..20.9...                                                                             32.75         22.75        22.35         22.75        22.75         22.735         7 2727471833--
5.  Eggs.-.................6.R7                                                                    19.60        34.16         30.67        38.67         38.67        38.67         38.67         4183.7192--
6.  Slau.ghterhou.e......................20.57                                                    40.00         73.43         82 39        82 79         82.29        82.29         83.29         82.39          82.29           82.39           82.29          83.29
Sob-total...................                                      3.63        44.52        109.26       170.70        106880        088o48       189.69        190.57       191.39        199.60         191.90          168.47          130.87          160.13
INCRESENTAL OFERATING COSTS
1.  Labor.,......................                                        0.10         0.75          1.76         2.60          2.68          2.32         2.73          2.76         2.76          2.76           2.56            2.21            1.86            1.86
2.  Feed. ran.i.,.............. ........                                 14          13.1-         z9. 0        60'. 2        66. .9       66., 9        66.95        67.06         ±7. DI        67.            57.99           -.3.3           0 6.612.6
3.  other opertteg Cot..~..............I..                                .15        0".03,        t2.37        32< >0   ~    97 0c ~       n33          96.02        59.6          '3.7   9.7269.               97.7q 0           31            76.697' 7
4.  Bonking Service....I.... ..........                                  0.23         0.67          1.14          1.09         0.93          0.70         0.50          0.3           0.33         0.11           0.03---
lob-tota.2.7.................7.............11).7                                                                                                 i61,.64        59.79)      166.7         15.5           0JH. (7         120,.61         ui6.45          11o.40
INVEOTMNYB
1.  Intgrated Coconot/leef tattle Fotteolg ......                        0,08          "1           3.56         D.643           96l        (0 13-------
2.  Integrate .C.cont/Oe-l Cattle Breding/Fotte-ing                      0.35         1.~33          .3          03            0.625          ---------
3.  0t    ef Rce....................0.63                                                            1.23         1.38          1.07          0.43          ---                                                                                        
4.  FIR Fac.u........................                                    4.65        13. 1 ~   15.1.4             3.0<                        ---------
3.  Broiler Fa-e......6.....I.....5....                                          .       06' 5~     6.00           -            ----------
6.  Egg Fam. .     .....................                                 4.06         6<61 ~         .3.         1.3           -             -----                                                                                ---
7.  Ola-ght-rbua.........I.......                                        1.44         0.0           9 .32        1.17           ----------
8.  Technical and AdeiRit-troe -Sice .e.v.c...1,55                                    1.50      ~    .57          1.12         0.27--------
0n6 -Iotl.13................... I ............o.6 4                                                                                                                                           ---                                              
PROJECT FINANCIAL BALANCE      ................                          (14.245   ~2o->T3          302,23        13.07         25.15         27.30,       9.65         30.76         30.69        30.95          45.53           38.66            M4.2           49.68
ADJUSTMENTS-TO FINANCIAL BALANCE
I.  Canes.~~~~~                                                    ~~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~~         ~~~~0.06  0.95  2.11  3.18  3.27  3.28  3.28  3.28     3.28          3.26           3.06            2.68            2.30            2.30
2.  Labor1.00                                                                         0.435          .0           16           1.67          10           1.1.721.73                                 .7            .81.32                         1.06            1.06
Sah-tata.i  ..........I..........                                 0.14          1.40         5.21          4.79         4.90          4.098         1.99         5.01          0.01          5.01           4.64            4.00I           3.38            3.36
PROJECT ECONOMIC BAI.ANCE ...   ..............                           (14.103        A2          m5u           <.           331          3          3131.76                      67           ..6.6         4517             1 -66            33      ~     3.~
E-o-oe   late of Raten _= 36t
1/  Th  opporlunity cot of facn labor Re os-d to equal 257 of ite flno-1i1 cot.






120                            122?                             124-
The b-Indtides thwn mt hin mtop do It!                                                                                                                               ? EA
Eipby endorement or acceptance by to,e                                                                                                                 CHINA
1W,ed Benkerd ih s17,itr                                                                                                                               CI NA
--"-~~ TAIWAN   ..,Cn04C   - 
-9a //                                                                                     11001J  ONG ------     -coc
CAGAYAN VALtEY                                                                   A CtCEAC
ILOCOS AND                                                                                                      - y*HIUPPINES
MOUNTAIN  PROVINCE         L       2       N   IIngonQ
S OUrH                                 p F                                       J                                                              S
CHINA
SEA                                                                                                                                           N D O
CENTRAL  LUZON  (                       O 9(Ofl
UlZ Lt, BLACAN        C
PIGS           PMN POULTRY  PAEYA    TARLAC,
NISadPLLO    UEVA KIMA ..
PANGASINAN PROINCEs
P     H     /     I     I     P     P    I    N 
MANILA w    )C
-14'                        ~~~~~SOUTHERN TAGALOG             'BICOL14
PIGS and POULTRY .CAVfTE LAGUNA 1d
HILL 8EEF RANCHES {MINIOAA ISLAND                                                       ty                             S E        A
3  DBP BRANCHES - PROJECT AREAS                                                                               HILt BEEF RANCHESt MASBATE fSLAND
*CDSP AGENCIES - PROJECT AREAS                               Sql  7          /
1              ~~~~EASTERN VISAYAS
REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                        C'
-52'                PRIMARY HIGHWAYS                   -1'
-. o .    I ,-. RAILROADS                                                                                  AN
PROJECT AREAS                   A                                                                 S
I PIGS AND POULTRY                                  WESTERN  VISAYAS    4
c    HILLSBEEF RANCHES \1oi
L-
INTTEGRATED COICONUIT!.---
i-JBEEF CATTLE 5              r
I   ~ ~ ~ C10~
S    PIGS
LL.                         EVND.                                                                     I     NA  0                 NORTH MINOvANAO
4  -II-.                                                                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O ~~~~~MISAMIS ORIENTAL PROVtNC/E INIORATED
/    '~ ~<              f                                                            >                                                              _   COCONUT/ROEF CATTLE
v/ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~                O           >Xi        a y a n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d. Oro     )
PHILIPPINES
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                      SO U CH=M_NANA
0    40 a0  i60   1 6                                                                                                                   NTEGRAT D  0CONUT/
J-7              SOUTH MINDANAO0           _-'  EPI KL               t ;        REF CATTLE
KILOlfEtERS                                          PIGS  SOUJTHERN COTASATO PROVINCE     -
-'                           oi  zA   @   6p  a,o  lr?-0 20  40  60  80  100
MILES                                       E                B  ES                S A
120'                           122                             124'                              126'
MARCH  1972                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD  3602R



