Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                    u jjt  J
Report No. 2986-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
October 10, 1980
Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in tm pwiiutmanIe ur UT
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =     Rs 8.4
Rs I            =     US$0.12
Rs 1 million   =      US$119,048
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Traditional measures and terms:
1 Tola     =  11.66 grams
1 Seer     =  80 Tola = 933 grams
1 Maund    = 40 seer = 37.32 kg
1 Quintal  =  100 (usually 100 kg)
1 Lakh     =  100,000
1 Crore    =  10,000,000
Pucca Road - an all-weather road
Katcha Road - a fair weather road
PRINCIPAL GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CRRI -    Central Road Research Institute
DBST -    Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
ERR  -    Economic Rate of Return
FY   -    Financial Year
GOB  -    Government of Bihar
GOI  -    Government of India
IR   -    Indian Railways
IRC  -    Indian Roads Congress
PWD  -    Public Works Department of Bihar
REO  -    Rural Engineering Organization of Bihar
TEC  -    Technical Examiner's Cell
INDIA AND GOB FISCAL YEAR
April 1st - March 31st



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....................................                1
A.   The Transport Sector in India and Bihar ....             ........    1
B.   The Transport Modes in Eastern India and Bihar .....               2
II.   THE BIHAR HIGHWAY SECTOR ................................                6
A.    Bihar in the Indian Context ........................    6
B.   The Highway Network and Highway Traffic ....             ........    7
C.   The Administration of Highways .....................               8
D.   Highway and Rural Road Planning and Finance .... ....    8
E.   Technical Aspects of Road Construction and
Maintenance ......................................              9
III.    BANK GROUP LENDING IN BIHAR .............................   10
IV.  THE PROJECT .......................................  11
A.    Background ......................................                11
B.   Project Objective ..................................   11
C.   Project Description . ...............................   12
D.    Cost Estimates .....................................    15
E.   Execution of the Project .........          ..................   16
F.   Project Monitoring ..................................   17
G.   Procurement ........................................   18
H.   Financing and Disbursements ......            ..................   19
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION . ....................................   19
A.   Methodology, Costs and Benefits .....             ...............   19
B.   Economic Rate of Return ............................ 21
This report is based on information provided by the Governments of India and
Bihar, as collected by past missions during 1978 and 1979, and on the findings
of an appraisal mis,sion in March 1980, consisting of H. Sydney Thriscutt
(Highway Engineer) and Max Pulgar-Vidal (Economist). It includes also the
findings of Mark. Baird (Economist, New Delhi Office), Dr. T. H. Mabbett
(Consultant, Agriculturalist) and Dr. J. D. G. Howe (Consultant, Transport
Technology Specialist) who visited Bihar at different times during project
preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
Table of Contents (continued)
C.   Project Beneficiaries ........... ...................   22
D.   Project Risks ......................................   22
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................  23
TABLES
1.   Road Network in Bihar and India
2.   Bihar Motor Vehicle Statistics
3.  Non-Motorized Transport in Bihar (1977)
4.   Vehicle, Plant and Equipment Fleets of PWD and REO
5.   Annual Expenditures on Roads of REO and PWD 1974 to 1980
6.   Schedule of Project Roads
7.   Schedule of Plant and Equipment for REO Road Construction and Maintenance
8.   Schedule of Materials Testing and Survey Equipment
9.   Project Costs by Year
10. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11. Estimated Staff Requirements for Improved REO Rural Road Maintenance
12. Estimated Planning, Supervision, Monitoring and Quality Control Costs
ANNEXES
1.  The Role of Road Transport in Bihar
2.   Project Reporting and Monitoring Requirements
3.   Items Included in the Rural Road Survey Form
4.   Sample Economic Calculations
5.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
6.   GOB's Rural Roads Maintenance Program
CHARTS
World Bank Chart No. 21599 - Structure of Bihar Public Works Department
World Bank Chart No. 21600 - Structure of the Rural Engineering Organization
FIGURES
1.   Rural Road Design Standards
MAPS
World Bank Map No. 14878R - Project Roads: North Bihar
World Bank Map No. 15088R - Project Roads: South Bihar
World Bank Map No. 15089R - Project Roads: Chotanagpur and Santhal Pargana



INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Transport Sector in India and Bihar
1.01      India's current long-term policy for the transport sector generally
aims at the further development of a transport system which can meet at mini-
mum cost, the increased transport demand resulting from growth in the economy.
This policy would be implemented through increased support of the highway
sector with particular emphasis on facilitating transport in rural areas;
encouragement of increased efficiency of railway transport operations; and
discouragement of growth in and decongestion of the central business districts
of large metropolitan regions. The most recent statement of the Government's
economic objectives are in the draft Sixth Five-Year Plan 1978-83. The plan
represents GOI's attempt at accelerating economic growth and improving income
distribution through increased emphasis on agriculture, small-scale industry,
and power. Of the total public investment in the five-year plan, Rs 81.3
billion or 12% would be allocated to transportation, the lowest share of total
investments of any plan period. A new plan, covering the period 1980-85 is
being prepared. In view of the very substantial investments likely to be
required for railways, roads and selected port investments, the allocations
for transportation may prove insufficient. The railway and road transport
sectors have together received more than 80% of the public investment funds
for transport over the past three decades, railways getting an average of 60%
more than roads and road transport. Consequently, GOI planners have begun to
reconsider the relative share of investment funds allocated to the various
transport modes.
1.02      The Indian transport sector is under the concurrent jurisdiction of
various ministries: ports, shipping and roads are under the Ministry of Ship-
ping and Transport; railways are under the Ministry of Railways; civil avia-
tion under the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation; and pipelines under the
Ministry of Petroleum. Planning and coordination is undertaken within the
context of overall national and regional plans. For national transport in-
vestments, in subsectors other than the railways, the Planning Commission acts
as a coordinator, scrutinizing, assessing and finally approving for inclusion
in the national plan, all the investment proposals emanating from the trans-
port sector. The national plan thus formulated by the Planning Commission
must subsequently be approved by the Government and the Public Investment
Board.
1.03      The State Government of Bihar (GOB) has limited powers in matters
of overall transport policy. Decisions regarding railways, civil aviation,
national highways and water transport are taken at the national level.
Within the purview of the State Governments, the main initiative for overall
transport planning lies with the Development Commissioner and the Finance
Commissioner.  Within the rural sector, integrated planning is achieved
through the Rural Development Department.



B.   The Transport Modes in Eastern India and Bihar
(i) Inland Water Transport
1.04      Inland water transport is controlled by the Inland Water Transport
Directorate in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport. This Directorate is
charged with coordination of inland water transport with other modes as well
as formulation and preparation of schemes and projects for improvement of in-
land water transport. The two main river systems used in Eastern India are
the Ganges River System which spreads throughout Bihar and the Brahmaputra
River System. The Ganges-Bhagirathi-Hooghly is navigable throughout the year
for vessels up to 5 meter draught between Buxar and the Bay of Bengal with
nominal river training work in the upper reaches and during floods in the
rest. Currently, however, navigation is restricted to between Patna and
Buxar, a distance of 185 km. The traffic consists mainly of coal, stone
boulders, foodgrains, pulses, building materials, and general merchandise.
However, water transport in Bihar remains poorly developed. Statistics
relating to the number of steamers and boats for transport are unreliable
but numbers are known to be small.
(ii) Railways
1.05      The network of Indian Railways (IR) is owned and managed by GOI.
IR is the nation's largest single undertaking with an investment of some
Rs 70 billion, a total staff strength of about 1.7 million, and it operates
over 60,000 route-km, of which about 12,000 km have multiple track. Statistics
concerning IR's originating freight and passenger traffic indicate that,
over the last two years, there has been a downward trend in the originating
tonnage carried by the railways, although the average lead of traffic has
increased, and hence the turnaround time of wagons has deteriorated. However,
IR is still the most important mode of transport in India, currently carrying
about 60% of total ton-km and 40% of total passenger-km.
1.06      Bihar is served by the main broad gauge electrified trunk railway
between New Delhi and Calcutta, running across the Chotanagpur plateau south
of the Ganges, while Patna is served by the non-electrified main line. Most
railway lines north of the Ganges are meter gauge, connected by passenger
ferries and the Teghra bridge to the remainder of the system. The railway
network is Bihar covers 90% of sub-divisions and 80% of blocks.
(iii) Civil Aviation
1.07      The Civil Aviation Department is responsible for air navigation and
safety. A provision of Rs 1,500 million has been made for the projects of the
Civil Aviation Department. The program aims at the expansion and improvement
of aeronautical communication services, airports and acquisition of aerodrome
equipment for ensuring better safety and reliability. Under the program of
works at airports, emphasis will continue to be on the development of existing
airports rather than the construction of new ones. Extension, strengthening
and improvement of runways, taxitracks and aprons will be taken up at a number
of airports. Indian Airlines is the Government operated domestic airline,
which also operates a limited number of international routes. In 1976,
domestic passenger traffic stood at 2,786 million passenger-km, while domestic



- 3 -
air freight was 260 million ton-km; the rates of growth during the decade
1966-76 were 11% and 7% respectively.
1.08      In Bihar, Patna and Ranchi are connected by daily qir services,
operated by Indian Airlines, to New Delhi and Calcutta. In addition, there
are 17 flights per week, operated by Indian Airlines and Royal Nepal Airlines.
between Patna and Kathmandu, Nepal. Although it is intended to develop air
services within the state under the draft Sixth Five-Year Plan, at present,
the 43 landing grounds in Bihar, apart from Patna and Ranchi, are not used by
commercial aircraft.
(iv) Highways
1.09      Highways in India are divided into four categories:  national high-
ways, state highways, district highways, and block highways. In addition,
there are so-called project and urban roads, administered by various depart-
ments and municipalities. National highways are under the jurisdiction of
the Government of India, which meets construction, maintenance and improvement
costs. Most other roads are the responsibility of state authorities. However,
administration of district and block highways is generally delegated to local
bodies and rural communities. Besides bearing the cost of the national
highways, the Government of India through the Roads Wing of the Ministry of
Shipping & Transport, participates in the financing of important state highways
through grants to the State Governments. In such cases, procedures for review
and approval of plans and supervision of execution of the projects are similar
to those used for the national highways.
1.10      The development of rural roads, which includes minor district high-
ways and block highways, is important for opening up the rural areas which
still contain about 80% of the population of India. They are an essential
ingredient of agriculture development programs, since at present a large
number of villages are still unconnected with roads to market centers. Out of
approximately 576,000 villages in the country, only about 169,000 have all
weather road connections, and a further 93,000 only have fair weather road
connections. The objective of the draft Sixth Five-Year Plan was to provide
road links to all villages having a population of 1,500 and above and to
one-half of villages with a population between 1,000-1,500 that remained to be
connected with all weather roads in 1978; the remaining half would be covered
in the period 1983-88. An outlay of Rs 10,950 million was allocated for these
works. A Working Group on Rural Roads which was set up by the National Policv
Committee of the Planning Commission recently went into various aspects of
rural roads and concluded that it is not be feasible in the foreseeable future
to connect each and every village to the road network. A more realistic
objective would be that, by the turn of the century, all villages should be no
more than 1.6 km from a road. This would give an approximate road density of
60 km per 100 square-km and would require about Rs 110 billion phased over 20
years.
1.11      Although road transport is the most important mode in Bihar, the
following table indicates the extent to which the development of an adequate
road network lags behind that in other states:



-4-
Bihar            India
(1975/76)          (1979)
National and State Highways
(surfaced and unsurfaced)
Km                                  17,400          443,000
Km per 100,000 population                25.9             68.2
Minor roads (mainly rural) /a
Km                                  62,800          932,200
Km surfaced (% of total)             9,970 (16%)   194,000 (21%)
Km per 100,Q00 population               93.7             143.4
Km surfaced per 100,000 population    14.9                29.9
Motor vehicles per 100,000 population        210              486
/a   The bulk of this category consists of Zila Parishad Roads, (main-
tained by District authorities), Rural Roads (maintained by REO)
and Project Roads (maintained by other government departments).
In 1977, the total length of surfaced roads in Bihar was about 26,000 km, of
which about 10,000 km were minor roads. According to the draft Sixth Five-Year
Plan, these figures are expected to grow to 31,000 and 12,400 respectively
in 1982/83. In 1977, the proportion of villages with populations between
1,500 and 5,000 that were connected with all-weather roads was 20%, with 10.4%
of the state's population; the draft Plan forecasts growth to 50% and 14.4%
respectively in 1982/83. GOI's objective is to connect all such villages to a
metalled road, 1/ an ambitious objective for Bihar by 1990. The current
insufficient provision of surfaced roads in rural areas highlights the long
standing neglect of the rural economy of Bihar. Communication difficulties
are increased by seasonal flooding and the nature of the soils, which severely
limit movement during the monsoon except on surfaced roads. The highway
subsector is discussed in more detail in Chapter II, and statistical data is
given in Table 1.
1.12      The bulk of Bihar's agricultural products is consumed near the place
of production. Most agricultural freight movements take place, therefore,
over short distances between the farm and the local market. The main modes
of transport are headload, bicycle, animal-drawn carts and tractors. Each one
of these modes is used over more or less well-defined distance ranges with
headloads for shorter distances and tractors for longer ones. Hence, these
various modes do not compete with each other to any significant extent.
1.13      The number of mechanized vehicles registered in Bihar, excluding
auto-rickshaws, motorcycles and scooters, but including farm tractors, is
about 75,000 and the average growth rate over the past ten years has been
1/   A metalled road has a brick or stone surface which may or may not have
been provided with a bituminous seal against ingress of water.



- 5 -
about 6% per annum, although the growth rate for farm tractors, commonly used
for road transport, has been 22% per annum. The number of auto-rickshaws and
motorcycles and scooters has also increased rapidly (Table 2) at 15% per annum
but they   e seldom used for freight transport, except in areas close to urban
centers. For distances over about 15 km, rural mechanized transport of goods
is almost entirely by truck or by tractor trailer combination; the type of
mixed passenger/goods transport by light trucks common in many developing
countries hardly exists in Bihar. The number of trucks and tractor trailer
combinations per 100,000 population is about half the all-India average. They
are concentrated around major towns so that nine districts with only 21% of
the population have 64% of the trucks available for hire in the state, and
the distribution of tractor trailers is similarly uneven. Registration
figures suggest a significant increase in the truck fleet in Bihar since 1976,
but the increase appears to have taken place in the urbanized districts rather
than in the farming areas, and further growth is slowed by long delivery
delays for popular truck models. While there do not seem to be any delays in
the supply of tractors and trailers, the availability of credit may inhibit
continued rapid growth. The draft Sixth Five-Year Plan forecasts growth rates
of 10% per annum for buses and trucks and 7.5% per annum for cars, jeeps and
taxis. These figures are above the historic rates, and are unlikely to be
attained in view of rising fuel costs.
1.14      Throughout Bihar, and particularly in the eastern and southeastern
rural districts, non-motorized road transport plays a significant role. Tables
2 and 3 show that there are about 30 times as many animal-drawn carts as trucks
in the State. The animal-drawn cart is the most common form of short distance
freight transport in rural Bihar (Annex 1), being the principal means for
hauling agricultural goods over distances of up to 15 km on both pukka (all-
weather) and katcha (fair-weather) roads. The cart fleet in Bihar was esti-
mated at 780,000 in 1972, suggesting that the ratio of cart to population
was about half of the all-India average ratio. Although there has been an
annual decrease of about 1% in the number of carts since 1966, there has been
an increase in the use of rubber-tired carts by an estimated 8% per annum.
Since the carrying capacity of rubber-tired carts is two or three times greater
than that of the traditional wooden-wheeled variety, the transport capacity
of all bullock carts has increased in recent years. Horse and pony-drawn
carts and cycle rickshaws are used mostly in and close to towns while pack
animals are confined to a few areas for the primary movement of goods from
farms to the roadside. In most rural areas, however, bicycles are more
common than bullock carts and are a practical and affordable means for the
small farmer to move goods over short distances, as well as providing personal
transport to the great mass of working population. There is very little
information on which to make forecasts for future number of non-motorized
vehicles, but given the generally uncertain future for oil supplies and the
fact that investment for even the smallest truck is quite out of reach for the
average farmer, it seems that increasing reliance on non-motorized forms of
transport is likely. Prejudice against rubber-tired carts is lessening and
finance for purchase is now easier (Annex 1). Finance for bicycles, whose
cost of Rs 200 to 500 makes them a possibility for those on average incomes,
is not officially available although it is known that loans given for general
agricultural purposes are frequently used to buy bicycles.



- 6 -
II. THE BIHAR HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   Bihar in the Indian Context
2.01      India covers an area of about 3.3 million square kilometers and its
population is about 650 million, of which about 80% live in rural areas. The
Eastern Region of India, where Bihar is located, has largely been bypassed by
past development programs and includes the greatest concentration of rural
poverty in the world.  The state of Bihar lies in the Indo-Gangetic plain, and
has a considerable untapped agricultural potential as a result of fertile
alluvial soils underlain by massive groundwater resources.  With an area of
174,000 square kilometers and, with a population of 67 million, it is the
second most populous state in the country. Population density is about 380
per square kilometer, compared to a national average of about 200. Almost 90%
of the population is rural and dependetnt on agriculture; this proportion is
expected to decrease only very slowly in the medium term. The average annual
per capita income is about 70% of the national average.
2.02      Bihar divides into three distinct geographic regions:  (i) the
northern plains between the Ganges River and the Nepal border, made up of
young alluvial soils; (ii) the central plains consisting of older alluviums
lying along the southern banks of the Ganges; and (iii) the Chotanagpur/Santhal
Pargana plateau covering most of the southern half of the state and made up
of red and yellow catenary soils. While soils in the northern and central
plains are quite fertile, those of the Chotanagpur/Santhal Pargana plateau
have restricted agricultural potential. Average rainfall is about 1,250 mm
per annum, but varying by as much as 500 mm on either side of average. In the
Ganges plain, especially in northern Bihar, there are large anour ts of ground-
water at depths of between five and fifteen meters, but on the Chotanagpur/
Santhal Pargana plateau, groundwater exists only in cracks and fissures in the
underlying rock so that year round irrigation is impossible except from rainfed
storage. Administratively, Bihar is divided into 31 Districts and 72 Sub-
Divisions. The key unit for rural development is the Development Block, of
which there are 587, each containing about 100,000 people in some 100 villages.
2.03      Most of the land suitable for cultivation in Bihar is already
cropped, with 8.7 million cultivated ha increased effectively to 11.3 million
cropped ha because of multiple cropping. However, higher yields are a possi-
bility given effective irrigation and more extensive adoption of improved
farming methods. Over the past decade, the area under cultivation has
remained practically unchanged and total production figures have hardly risen.
Hence, increasing rural population has been the main factor behind the stag-
nation - and in some years the decline - of rural incomes. Population pres-
sures have reduced the average size of farm holdings to about 1.5 hectares,
with minimum-size holdings of lesa than one hectare. With traditional agri-
cultural practices, 1.5 to 2.5 hectares farm size is the minimuim necessary to
feed an average family. The distribution of holding size is highly skewed and
the median size of farm is about 0.6 hectares. Of 7.6 million holdings, 64%
are 'Less then one hectare, while under 2% have more than 10 hectares. Given
the presence of an estimated 6.8 million landless laborers, some 75% of the
population is estimated to subsist below the poverty line (US$70 per capita).



2.04      Major expansion of production must come from yield increases, i.e.,
from improved farming practices, including the use of high-yielding varieties,
higher fertilizer intake, better irrigation facilities and more intensive use
of irrigation water. About 90% of the cultivated area is i!sed to produce
foodgrains (mainly rice, wheat and maize). In recent years, there has been a
significant increase in the production of cereals, offset by a comparable
decline in production of pulses. Sugarcane, jute and potatoes are becoming
important cash crops. Though only 4% of the total area sown is used for these
crops, their output in terms of weight (and transport requirements) is about
one-half of the statewide total.
2.05      The present project (paras 4.03 to 4.08) addresses, in a modest way
the existing deficiencies of Bihar's rural road transport network (para 1.11),
as part of the Bank's overall program of assistance to rural development in
Bihar (para 3.01).
B.   The Highway Network and Highway Traffic
2.06      The highway network in Bihar is made up of national, state and dis-
trict roads with a total length of about 80,000 km, of which some 26,000 km
(32%) are paved to all-weather standards (Table 1). This compares with 39%
of paved roads in India as a whole. Most major roads have evolved from tracks,
through brick paved roads, into their present bituminous surfaced form so that
alignment is frequently unsuitable for present traffic flows, encroachment by
roadside development is common and pavement thickness is insufficient, leading
to uneven surfaces, potholes and areas of failure. Throughout the Gangetic
plain in northern and central Bihar, soils are poorly graded and road making
materials lacking.  These factors, coupled with annual flooding over large
areas, make road building and maintenance expensive and difficult. In hilly
areas in southern Bihar (Chotanagpur and part of Santhal Pargana) conditions
for road building are easier, but agricultural activity and population density
are considerably less, so that the need for reliable all-weather transport by
road is correspondingly reduced.
2.07      In November 1975, a statewide origin and destination survey was
carried out at 87 survey stations over a 48-hour period. It was intended to
repeat the survey after five to ten years in order to establish a base for
forecasting traffic growth patterns in deciding road transport investment
needs. Plans are being made for a second survey in 1981. Traffic flows on
national and state roads in 1975 ranged from a maximum of about 12,000 vehi-
cles per day on one section of national highway in Chotanagpur down to an
average of about 550 vehicles per day, half non-mechanized, on state highways
in general. No data was collected on rural roads. During the 1975 Bihar
traffic survey, it was found that the average loaded truck rear axle weight
was about 10.7 tons, equivalent to 3.4 standard axles and indicating almost
universal 25% overloading, as is unofficially permitted by GOI. With the
present high cost and shortages of fuel, this figure is unlikely to have
decreased. Apart from the 1975 survey, no systematic traffic counts have
been taken in Bihar from which traffic growth and composition can be estimated,
but counts have been taken on some routes for specific projects. As part of
the monitoring process under the project (para 4.17 and Annex 2), traffic
data will be collected on a sample of project roads.



- 8-
C.   The Admiftistration of Highways
2.08      National highways in Bihar are designed and financed by GOI, but
the state Public Works Department (PWD) normally acts as executing agency.
State highways, apart from rural roads, are designed, constructed and main-
tained by the PWD, generally using state funds. Rural roads are the respon-
sibility of the Rural Engineering Organization (REO), a part of the Rural
Development Department. District roads, which make up the majority of total
road length, are financed and administered by District Authorities, and urban
roads in municipal and smaller urban areas are built and maintained by the
municipal and urban authorities concerned, in some cases with grants from
state or central government. The structure of the PWD and of REO are shown
in Charts 21599 and 21600.
2.09      REO was set up in 1970 to deal with rural roads.  However, it is
still backed up by PWD with staff, equipment and technical facilities. At the
time of appraisal, REO technical staff comprised one Chief Engineer (Works),
one Chief Engineer (Advance Planning), 18 superintending engineers, 99
executive engineers, and one economist, plus about 300 assistant engineers
and 600 block engineers. Block engineers hold technical college diplomas;
other engineering staff are normally university graduates. Duties and respon-
sibilities of engineering staff are clearly defined in the Bihar Public Works
Department Code, which applies to REO. Financial control is maintained by
Divisional Accountants working with REO and reporting to the Accountant
General. There is also a statutory requirement for regular audits to be
carried out by the Accountant General, GOB, under the GOI Auditor General,
responsible directly to the President of India. The technical caliber of REO
staff is generally sound. During project preparation, which was carried out
mostly by REO, data collection and processing was done effectively and on time
and interpretation of results was sound.
D.   Highway and Rural Road Planning and Finance
2.10      Planning, project appraisal and design of rural roads are handled in
REO by the Chief Engineer (Advance Planning) with a staff of about 230 engi-
neers. Immediately after its inception, REO carried out a crash program during
which 5,591 km of roads were built up to 1979. In recent years, REO constructed
about 1,000 km of roads annually. Rural road planning is generally guided by
the objective of the draft Sixth Five-Year Plan (para 1.09) to connect at least
50% of villages having populations between 1,500 and 5,000 to all-weather roads
by 1982/83. Proposals for rural road construction or improvement are put
forward by Block Development Committees to the State Planning Department for
approval in principle. If approved, a technical report and estimate is
prepared by REO's Advance Planning Wing, leading to selection of projects for
the work program. Application of economic analysis to build up a suitable
work program had not been attempted before this project. The introduction of
methods of project planning which are objective has been welcomed by REO and
GOB as a means of isolating route selection from narrow vested interests.
Introduction of traffic counts on some rural roads as proposed under the
project (para 4.17) and the experience gained during project preparation
should help improve route selection. Design, carried out by the Superintending
Engineer (Design) follows guidelines set by the Indian Roads Congress (IRC),



- 9 -
but preconstruction testing of materials has been minimal. Construction
techniques are usually traditional using maximum labor and minimum mechanical
plant, while quality control has been little used, hitherto. To remedy this,
four test4ng laboratories under the Superintending Engineer (Design) are being
activated and have commenced material testing for design of project roads.
Equipment for these laboratories is to be supplied under the project (Table 8).
PWD has offered the facilities of its large and relatively well-equipped
materials testing laboratory for use by REQ as required, until all REQ labor-
atories are fully equipped and staffed.
2.11      Annual expenditures on highways in Bihar since FY 1974/75 are shown
in Table 5. Expenditures on rural road construction by REQ have increased
over the last five years at rather more than 20% per annum, while their
expenditure on other non-highway works has almost doubled. Until FY 1979/80,
the amounts allocated for rural road maintenance were insignificant, and
the large increase in that year still gave only about Rs 2,200 (under US$300) per
km, which is considerably less than necessary for correct routine and periodic
maintenance. As a result of the paucity of funds, REQ has not set up a fully
operational road maintenance organization. Whatever work has been done was
organized on an ad hoc basis using local small contractors who might or might
not be familiar with the type of work required and whose standards often left
much to be desired. A major shift in emphasis is necessary within REO if
roads they have constructed are not to deteriorate rapidly to an unimproved
state, and the large increase in REO road maintenance funding since 1978/79
indicates that such a shift is taking place. An increasing level of recurrent
financing, suitable equipment, effective organization and some training will
all be required if REQ road maintenance is to be effective in the future (see
para 4.06).
E.   Technical Aspects of Road Construction and Maintenance
2.12      From the Nepal border to a line about 30 km south of Gaya and
Bhagalpur, all-weather movement is not possible for wheeled traffic except
on surfaced roads. This is due to the prevalence of alluvial soils and annual
flooding, or at least saturation, of large areas. In southern Bihar and in
the Chotanagpur plateau area, there are a variety of pre-cambrian soils which
provide better road building materials, although the presence of micaceous
deposits presents problems. Hence, where there is maximum population and
agricultural activity in the North of the state, roads must be surfaced even
for light traffic flows if year round access is to be reasonably certain, and
long hauls are involved for suitable construction materials. Moreover, the
large flows of floodwaters make embankments or special treatment necessary to
reduce scour damage to roads, so that construction is expensive and maintenance
costs high following floods. Typical construction for new rural roads is
about 35 cm total thickness of brick soling, broken brick and broken stone
base, plus 2 cm of premix bituminous carpet with a surface seal coat. An
alternative form of surfacing would be a double bituminous surface treatment
(DBST) which would be slightly cheaper. However, local labor is used to
working with the thin premix carpet, the chances of complete failure due to
improper materials or workmanship are less and performance under light traffic
Elows may be better. For these reasons, it is proposed to continue use of the
thin premix carpet for project roads, although once maintenance resealing has
becone a familiar operation, consideration should be given to using DBST for
construction. Labor-intensive construction methods are nonnal and compaction



- 10 -
of earthworks is often left to time and weather. Such work methods must be
supported by checks and quality control to ensure reasonable standards, and
mechanical earthwork compaction is necessary to reduce risks of failure due
to excessive consolidation. Maps showing command areas of irrigation schemes
and flood prone zones are contained in the project file.
2.13      Standards of road maintenance have been inadequate, even on national
and state highways, due to a combination of shortage of funds and unsuitable
work methods. Until 1979/80, REO undertook very little regular maintenance,
which resulted in a deterioration of the roads taken over or constructed by
them. District Roads have been and are characterized by seriously deficient
maintenance so that surfaced roads fall rapidly into decay, while unsurfaced
roads are often impassable by light vehicles even in dry weather. In both PWD
and REO, the standard of work depends very much on the competence and skill of
the foreman in charge, a situation which often leads to wastage of materials.
The situation could improve, given proper supervision by competent engineers,
the resources necessary to give correct supervision and better quality control.
As is often the case with road maintenance, improvement can best be brought
about by suitable managerial attention and by:
(i) making sure that maintenance staff have the funds, equip-
ment and materials they need to do their work (para 4.06);
and
(ii) providing instruction and training where required (para 4.07).
2.14      In the circumstances of Bihar, it would be entirely inappropriate
and undesirable to suggest wholesale mechanization of road construction and
maintenance.  However, there are some operations such as compaction of earth-
work, sub-base and base, or production of stone chippings below about 2.5 cm
size which need to be done mechanically to get good results. Other operations
like heating and spraying bituminous binder require more in the way of mechan-
ical aids than they get at present to economize in use of expensive materials
and improve work standards.
III. BANK GROUP LENDING IN BIHAR
3.01      Bank group assistance in Bihar has concentrated on the agricultural
sector through a variety of complementary projects, designed to improve the
living standards of the rural poor. The Bihar Agricultural Markets Project
(Cr. 294-IN, 1972, US$14 million) provided funds for the development of
agricultural wholesale market facilities in 50 selected towns in Bihar. The
Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 440-IN, 1973 US$32 million) provided long
and medium term credit primarily for minor irrigation to farmers through the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC). Originally envis-
aged to benefit approximately 50,000 borrowers in a limited area of the state,
the project was expanded to cover 84,000 beneficiaries throughout Bihar. Both
these projects have been fully disbursed and have largely met appraisal
objectives. The Agricultural Universities Project (Cr. 342-IN, 1972, US$12
million) provides support for the development of the Rajendra Agricultural



- 11 -
University in Bihar, in order to improve the quality of their teaching and
extension facilities and to foster basic and applied agricultural research.
Under two Rural Electrification Projects (Cr. 572-IN, 1975, US$57 million
and Cr. 911-IN, 1979, US$175 million) and a Power Transmission Project (Cr.
604-IN, 1976, US$150 million), Bihar is eligible to receive funds to implement
electrification schemes designed to accelerate the installation of irrigation
pumps and tubewells in rural areas and to strengthen its power distribution
system. The Bank Group is also assisting Bihar in reorganizing and strength-
ening its agricultural extension systems through the Bihar Agricultural
Extension and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN, 1978, US$80 million). While
unfilled key posts have hampered project implementation, progress is being
made in areas where regular extension visits have been instituted. Bihar is
also one of the five states participating in the Inland Fisheries Project (Cr.
963-IN, 1980, US$20 million), designed to increase carp production through
the construction of hatcheries and improvements to fish ponds. As the project
only became effective in May, 1980, it is still too early to assess its
impact, but initial implementation tasks, especially the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and central and state project moni-
toring units, are progressing satisfactorily.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Background
4.01      In May 1978, GOB proposed a project consisting of the construction,
improvement or strengthening of about 12,700 km of rural roads at an estimated
cost of US$340 million equivalent. After identification missions and discus-
sions with GOI it was agreed that such a program, although possibly justifia-
ble in the long run, would be far beyond the investment resources available to
Bihar. Accordingly, IDA agreed to assist with a first phase project of approx-
imately US$50 million total cost (excluding taxes and duties), the roads to be
selected on economic grounds. This would form a substantial part of GOB's
future rural road construction and maintenance program (para 4.15). Selection
was made from about 2,800 routes with a total length of some 19,000 km, at
first by a coarse screening process, followed by a more thorough analysis of
costs and benefits (paras 5.05-5.06). Project preparation was carried out by
GOB through the Advance Planning Wing of REO. The project was appraised in
March 1980.
B.   Project Objective
4.02      The principal project objective is to provide all-weather road com-
munications between farms and markets so that the full benefits of complemen-
tary investments made or about to be made, mainly in irrigation, may be
realized (para 5.01). The capabilities of REO for planning and selection of
rural roads have already been expanded by project preparation, and during the
project it is intended to improve maintenance of REO roads by provision of
equipment and the attendance of REO staff at short training courses (paras
4.06-7). In an effort to induce the materialization of more benefits to the



- 12 -
farmer, the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) is
expected to make refinancing facilities available to enable farmers to
acquire improved bullock carts for short distance transport of farm produce.
C.   Project Description
4.03      As appraised, the project consists of:
(i)  the construction, improvement or strengthening of about
700 km of rural roads;
(ii)  improvement of routine and periodic maintenance on REO
administered rural roads; and
(iii)  procurement of road construction and maintenance equipment.
The locations of the road sections selected for construction, improvement
or strengthening are shown on IBRD Map Nos. 14878R, 15088R and 15089R,
and in Table 6.
(a) Road Construction and Improvement
4.04      From the results of economic analysis, road construction, improve-
ment or strengthening is proposed on about 120 routes (700 km). Construction
work will consist of earthwork, drainage, bridging where necessary, and pro-
vision of subbase, base and surfacing to typical cross sections as shown
in Figure 1. Improvement usually involves provision of subbase, base and
surface to existing unsurfaced roads, with improvements to drainage and
alignment where required. Strengthening comprises an asphaltic overlay on
existing surfaced roads and sometimes the addition of extra base. Details
of the work proposed are given in Table 6, and the selection of the road
sections included in the project is described in Section V. Detailed survey
and design will be completed by the Advance Planning Wing of REO. Design work
is in hand, and was about 50% completed at the time of negotiations, based on
IRC rural road design standards 1/ and allowing for vehicle overloading which
is prevalent. Alignments will generally follow existing tracks and rights-
of-way with minimal land acquisition where necessary to attain the design
standards. Based on REO estimates, the average cost of road construction
will be Rs 360,000 (US$43,000) per km in January 1980 prices, including
bridges and culverts. The cost per km reflects the poor soils, the haulage
cost of construction materials, and the embankments and surfacing required
to avoid flood damage (para 2.06). The work will be carried out in accordance
with GOI Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Roads Wing) Specifications for
Road and Bridge Works (Revised 1978 edition) which have been reviewed and
found acceptable to IDA. These specifications are framed to be suitable for
largely manual operations, and it is not proposed to introduce mechanized
road construction except where better standards of work or more economic
use of materials will result (para 2.14). Agreement has been reached that
construction and improvement of roads under the project shall be carried
out in accordance with certain criteria mutually agreed. An understanding
1/   As given in the "Manual on Route Location, Design, Construction and
Maintenance of Rural Roads," IRC, 1979, and illustrated in Figure 1.



- 13 -
has been reached that these criteria shall include that all project road
design would be in accordance with IRC standards, construction work will be
carried out following the Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Roads Wing)
specificat;ons, published by IRC, and that the construction program will
encompass the routes shown in Table 6, subject to any revision agreed by
GOB and IDA in the light of changed circumstances at the time of construction.
Other criteria for selection are given in para 5.07. Work methods will
include the use of mechanical equipment for compaction, stone breaking where
possible and for bitumen distribution in order to achieve improved standards
of work.
4.05      Most PWD and REO roads in Bihar are constructed or improved by local
contractors using traditional work methods. PWD has a prequalification process
which is appropriate for local conditions and acceptable to IDA. Under this
process (the Bihar Enlistment of Contractors Rules, 1970), 76 contractors in
the state are prequalified to undertake contracts to an unlimited amount
(Class IA), 127 can bid for contracts of a value up to Rs 1.5 million, equiv-
alent to about US$180,000 (Class IB) and 786 can bid for contracts of a value
up to Rs 1.0 million, equivalent to about US$120,000 (Class II). Using the
same Rules, REO will advertise locally and nationwide inviting contractors
to prequalify for work under the project, and those already prequalified for
PWD will be automatically included. GOB procedures for bidding, awards of
contracts and contract supervision are governed by regulations which have been
reviewed and found acceptable by IDA. GOB contract documents and conditions
of contract do not contain any provision to compensate contractors for cost
increases, although GOB may do so. However, as the major materials are sup-
plied by GOB to contractors at fixed prices, and as most contracts will be
for periods of not more than one year, a price escalation clause would not
be essential. Quality control during construction will be through one central
and three regional materials testing laboratories set up by REO, and agreement
has been reached that testing for project works would be carried out on the
scales recommended in Sections 901 and 902 of the Ministry of Shipping and
Transport (Roads Wing) Specifications for Road and Bridge Works. Results
would have to be in accordance with the appropriate specifications, as may be
varied by the Chief Engineer, REO in consultation with IDA. Audit of works is
done routinely by the Bihar Audit Department financially and by the Technical
Examiner's Cell (TEC) for technical standards. TEC is an independent organ-
ization reporting directly to the Chief Minister of Bihar, staffed by senior
engineers and having its own testing laboratories.
(b) Improvement of Routine and Periodic Maintenance
4.06      Hitherto, rural road maintenance standards in Bihar have not been
adequate (paras 2.11 and 2.13) due to lack of funds and equipment. On the
present REO maintained network of 6,687 km (of which 1,096 km is unsurfaced),
the 1980/81 allocation of Rs 25 million for maintenance is about half of what
should be spent, although this is a very significant increase on previous
funding - more than six fold in two years (Table 5). GOB plans to increase
the funds for maintenance of REO roads to about Rs 40 million by 1983/84, and
if proper allowances are made for cost increases, this will approach an
adequate level for both project roads and the remainder of the REO maintained
network. It has been agreed that GOB will implement a phased program of road
maintenance of REO administered rural roads in such a manner that by June 30,



- 14 -
1986 the REO road network will receive proper maintenance (para 4.15) and IDA
will assist this improvement by providing under the project suitable road
maintenance equipment for use by REO (Table 7).
4.07      The operations involved in periodic maintenance of surfaced roads
are very similar to many of those in construction, and REO intends to use
contractors for most maintenance work under similar conditions to those under
which they are employed for construction. Contractors will also be used for a
range of routine maintenance operations, leaving REO staff free to undertake
supervision and inspection, plus minor works not suitable for contract. In
order to familiarize REO staff with use of equipment and improved standards of
quality control, arrangements will be made for REO staff to attend courses at
CRRI, Delhi or for CRRI to run suitable courses in Bihar on road construction
and maintenance methods. Understandings have been reached with GOB on the
estimates of staff requirements and training proposed, shown in Table 11.
(c) Road Construction and Maintenance Equipment
4.08      The equipment to be provided under the project is only that neces-
sary to obtain acceptable work standards or to economize in use of expensive
materials (para 2.14). The largest category of equipment is rollers for
compaction of earthworks, subbase, base and surface. Asphalt mixers are to be
provided to replace hand methods now generally used, and their size has been
selected to conform with parallel manual operations, particularly hand loading.
Small size machines will also be suitable for use on maintenance after con-
struction is completed. Bitumen kettles fitted with hand lances and manual
pumps will be supplied for applying the tack coat and for maintenance, but for
the seal coat in both construction and maintenance, power bitumen distributors
are proposed in order to economize in bitumen and reduce "whip-off" of expen-
sive stone chippings. A major impediment to better supervision and quality
control has been a shortage of light vehicles, and the project is to supply 12
four-wheel drive vehicles, three per laboratory, to permit improved materials
testing and control of work standards, plus a further 36 vehicles for use by
engineers on supervision of construction and maintenance operations. Equip-
ment for survey and materials testing will also be supplied under the project.
Understandings have been reached with GOB on details of mechanical equipment
and vehicles and of materials testing and survey equipment to be supplied
under the project, as shown in Tables 7 and 8 and procurement details detailed
in paras 4.18 - 4.21.
4.09      Farm-to-Market Transport.  Increased competition in the supply of
farm-to-market transport will reduce transport prices, with part of the reduc-
tion being passed to the farmers in the shape of higher farm gate prices for
their agricultural products. This will result in a fuller materialization of
project benefits and a more equitable distribution of benefits among transport
suppliers on one hand and farmers on the other than would occur without this
competition. As indicated above (para 1.14), animal-drawn carts, particularly
bullock carts, constitute the principal means of transport in rural Bihar, and
are the natural target of any drive to increase competition in rural road
transport. ARDC refinances loans extended by participating banks to individ-
duals who wish to purchase improved rubber-tired bullock carts. Such refi-
nancing schemes, established on the basis of ad hoc guidelines issued by ARDC
in May 1978, are now gaining wider acceptance among banks in Bihar despite the



- 15 -
relatively high costs associated with this type of lending operation. As of
late 1979, participating banks in Bihar had already submitted three applica-
tions to ARDC for the refinancing of approximately 2,700 bullock carts over
the period 1980-82. This lending target represents a significant increase
over their current lending levels.
D.   Cost Estimates
4.10      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$52.9 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of US$6.6 million equivalent
(12-1/2%) and including a total of taxes and duties of US$2.7 million equiv-
alent. Details are given in Table 9. The following is a summary of costs:
RS million              US$ million
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
I. Road construction
and improvement:             220.0    32.8   252.8   26.2       3.9    30.1
II. Road construction and
maintenance equipment
and spares:                   24.0     5.2    29.2    2.8       0.6      3.4
III. Supervision
(a)  Operating costs:          5.8     1.3      7.1    0.7      0.2      0.9
(b)  Staff                     8.0      -       8.0    1.0       -       1.0
Sub-total III                 13.8      1.3    15.1    1.7      0.2      1.9
Total Project I, II and III:    257.8    39.3   297.1   30.7          4.7    35.4
Total quantity contingency:        24.6      3.7    28.3    2.9       0.4     3.3
Total price contingency:           83.8    12.6    96.4   10.0        1.5    11.5
Total With Contingencies          366.2    55.6   421.8   43.6        6.6    50.2
Taxes:                             22.5       -     22.5    2.7        -      2.7
Total with Contingencies
and Taxes:                      388.7    55.6   444.3   46.3       6.6    52.9
4.11      The cost estimates are based on prices of January 1980.  Construc-
tion costs are based on REO quantity estimates and the GOB Schedule of Rates.
Estimates for vehicles, equipment and tools are based on early-1980 suppliers'
quotations c.i.f. Bihar. Physical contingencies of 10% for civil works and
supervision, and 5% for equipment have been incorporated in the project cost.
Price contingencies for all project items have been included to cover expected
price increases until all contracts are awarded. Price contingency has been
estimated for local costs at annual rates of 10% in 1980, 7% in 1981-83 and
5% in 1984-85. For indirect foreign costs, the international price contingency
has been estimated at annual rates of 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982
and 7% in 1983-85. Project cost estimates were discussed at negotiations, and
appropriate assurances received.



- 16 -
E.    xexcutioa. of the Project
4.12      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of REO, work-
ing through a Project Cell to be established by March 31, 1981 (Table 12),
and assisted by the existing hierarchy of field staff, as shown in World Bank
Chart No. 21600, page 62. Agreement has been reached on the setting up of the
Project Cell, and GOB confirms that their duties will be according to the PWD
Code and Standing instructions. Construction will be carried out by contrac-
tors, prequalified under existing GOB procedures. Contracts will be awarded
under existing local competitive bidding procedures and contract supervision
will be done by REO in accordance with the Bihar Public Works Department Code,
1948 edition, as amended. The Codes, Standing Instructions, procedures for
prequalification of contractors, bidding and award of contracts and contract
documents have been reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory, and understandings
have been reached that they will apply to project work as appropriate. Land
acquisition will be minimal, since existing road or right of way alignments
are to be used wherever possible and additional land will be necessary only
for minor improvement to road geometry or on bridge approaches. Under exist-
ing legislation, Government may enter upon arable land fifteen days after
publication of a declaration of intent, and thereafter only the amount of
compensation is subject to adjudication. Agreement has been reached that GOB
will acquire land as and when needed for the project, and the Association has
been informed that such action has already commenced.
4.13      Financial control and audit of works carried out under the project
will be exercised through GOB financial and audit regulations, which have been
reviewed and found acceptable to the Association. Quality control will be
exercised through the four materials testing laboratories (para 4.05). Agree-
ment has been reached that technical audit would be carried out on 10% of
project roads, selected randomly, and that any additional staff necessary for
TEC to carry out this audit would be supplied, if required, by GOB.
4.14      Equipment for use by contractors during construction and for the
program of improved maintenance of REO rural roads will be procured by REO
through normal GOB procurement procedures acceptable to IDA (para 4.19).
The terms and conditions under which such equipment will be used by contrac-
tors on construction and maintenance work were discussed and found acceptable
to IDA. Maintenance and repair of equipment procured under the project will
be carried out by the contractors in the case of minor repairs, or by REO for
major repairs, through local commercial mechanical workshops, who are used to
working on the types of equipment to be provided.
4.15      The physical execution of the project is expected to commence
in FY 1980/81 and to be completed in FY 1984/85. At the time of negotiations,
approximately 50% of detailed design had been completed, and the balance will
be done during the first year of the project, when the first batch of bids
will be invited, evaluated and contracts awarded for the purchase of equipment
and for some road construction. Approximately one quarter of the equipment
will be received in the first year of the project, half in the second year and
the balance in the third year. Road construction contracts are expected to be
awarded for about 35 km of road in the first year, 110 km in the second year,
220 km each in the third and fourth years and for the balance in the fifth year



- 17 -
of the project. Improved road maintenance procedures and operations will be
introduced from the commencement of the project. On the assumption road
construction and improvement under the project will be completed in 1984/85,
and that REO road maintenance expenditure will increase to correct levels
(para 4.06) by that year, the following appears a likely scenario for total
REO expenditures on roadworks until 1984/85, the construction figures being
from GOB planned budget:
Year            Construction          Maintenance   Total        Km        Rate per
Own          IDA                                    Maintained   Km (Rs)
Account   Project  Total
(    -----Rs million at 1980 prices----------)
1979/80    95          -        95         15          110      6700        2250
1980/81   112         28       140         25          165      7000        3600
1981/82    92         68       160         33          193      7250        4500
1982/83    85         95       180         41         221       7550        5400
1983/84   112         88       200         49         249       7900        6200
1984/85   155         65       220         58          278      8200        7000
This scenario anticipates a 150% increase in REO total annual expenditures in
real terms for roadworks over the next five years, in addition to some Rs 32
million for equipment to be supplied under the project. GOB confirms that
this forms a reasonable target for REO activities in road works until 1984/85,
and upon request, GOB will inform IDA of the amounts allocated for REO road
construction and maintenance during the annual process of budget preparation.
4.16      The location, layout and design of the roads to be constructed will
be done in accordance with Indian national standards and it is not likely
that there will be any adverse environmental impact as a result of the
project.
F.   Project Monitoring
4.17      It is expected that the project may form the model for a number
of subsequent rural road projects in India, whether financed by IDA or not.
It is, therefore, desirable to monitor the progress and effects of this proj-
ect throughout as a guide to possible changes or improvements in the planning
of future projects. During project implementation, it will be important to
monitor the effects of road improvement on agricultural outputs, prices,
marketing and various socio-economic factors. GOB has, therefore, been asked
to provide the following data:
(i) progress of road construction and improvement works;
(ii)  actual costs and unit costs of construction, as compared
with estimates;
(iii) progress in the implementation of complementary investments,
particularly in irrigation;
(iv)  classified traffic counts on a sample of project roads
before and after the project;



- 18 -
(v)  agricultural data comprising crops, crop areas, yields,
inputs and value of inputs on a sample of areas of influ-
ence before and after the project;
(vi)  transport data comprising amounts of produce moved, origins
and destinations, costs to the transporter and charges levied,
ownership and types of transporting vehicles used in a sample
of areas;
(vii) farm gate and market prices for principal products in a
sample of areas of influence.
Agreement has been reached that GOB will carry out reporting and monitoring,
and understandings arrived at that monitoring requirements shown in Annex 2
will be followed. In addition, IDA expects to collect data, with the help of
GOB, on changes in industrialization, health, rural electrification, education
and fertility which may be due to the project. GOB has also confirmed that
the Project Cell will be able to collect and process engineering data and that
if necessary, assistance will be obtained from a suitable State-level research
institution to collect and process agricultural and economic data. It is
estimated that a random sample of 10% of project roads will meet requirements
for monitoring, and the cost of monitoring studies will be met from funds
allocated under the project for supervision, monitoring and quality control
(Table 12).
G.   Procurement
4.18      The civil works to be financed under the project will cost approxi-
mately Rs 253 million (equivalent to US$30 million) plus taxes and contin-
gencies.  Civil works consist of about 120 separate sections of road having
an average length of less than 6 km each and an average estimated contract
cost of about Rs 2 million (US$240,000) at January 1980 prices. As the
contracts will be individually small, scattered over much of the state, and
will have to be carried out intermittently according to the prevailing con-
ditions of weather and flooding, it is very unlikely they will prove attrac-
tive to foreign bidders and they are, therefore, to be awarded through GOB's
LCB procedures which have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA (paras
4.05 and 4.07).
4.19      Of the Rs 32 million (equivalent to US$3.8 million) plus taxes
and contingencies to be spent under the project for equipment and spares,
about 60% is accounted for by rollers and supervision vehicles. These are
both available locally at very competitive prices. Hence, foreign suppliers
are unlikely to be interested. The same applies to most equipment items
to be procured, and the specifications of a range of locally produced equip-
ment have been investigated and found satisfactory for the type of work pro-
posed. LCB will, therefore, be used for equipment procurement, which will
have the advantage that early delivery will allow work to commence during the
1980/81 dry season, subsequent spares procurement and equipment maintenance
will be simplified and there will be better standardization of the PWD and
REO fleets. GOB LCB procedures for equipment have been reviewed and found
acceptable to IDA and equipment specifications will be reviewed by IDA.



- 19 -
4.20      It is the practice of GOB to make bulk purchases of some items under
LCB for provision to contractors, whose rates do not then include for the cost
of these materials. Commonly, bitumen, cement and reinforcing steel are
subject to this arrangement and the total values in this project will be about
US$1.5 million equivalent for bitumen and less than US$1 mil1ion for cement
and steel together. In order to reduce the effects of periodic shortages of
materials and, as these materials are allocated at fixed prices by GOI but
sell at higher prices in the open market, it is proposed to allow the practice
of bulk buying by GOB under the project. GOB will be reimbursed appropriately
for bulk purchases made for project roads where contract rates do not include
for the costs of materials so purchased.
4.21      IDA will review all contracts and related documentation for goods
and services costing more than Rs 2.0 million (US$240,000 approximately) before
an award is made. Smaller contracts, up to a cumulative total of Rs 70 million
(US$8.3 million approximately), will be subject to post-award review by IDA.
The project includes retroactive financing for vehicles, equipment, fuel and
additional staff for project preparation since June 30, 1979 up to a maximum
of US$500,000 equivalent.
H.   Financing and Disbursements
4.22      The proposed credit of US$35 million will finance about 70% of the
total project cost net of taxes and duties, that is, all foreign costs and
about 65% of local costs. The remaining local costs, amounting to about US$15.2
million plus local taxes and duties of about US$2.7 million, would be met by
GOB and GOI. GOI and GOB have assured IDA that adequate and timely release of
funds will be made in accordance with the agreed schedule of disbursements
(Table 10), and that any increase in the cost of the project, foreign or
local, would be borne by GOB. Disbursements from the proceeds of the Credit
account will be made on the following basis:
(i) 60% of expenditure on civil works and materials;
(ii)   90% of expenditure for equipment, tools and spares; and
(iii)  90% of expenditure for planning and supervision of works,
including incremental operating and staff costs.
Disbursement applications for civil works, materials, equipment, tools and
spares will be fully documented. Disbursement applications for supervision
of work, including operating and staff costs, will be supported by statements
of expenditure only, but full documentation will be retained by GOB for
inspection by IDA supervision missions.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Methodology, Costs and Benefits
5.01      The economic evaluation of this project has been carried out from
the perspective of an integrated rural development "package". Road works are



- 20 -
viewed as part of the package required to increase agricultural production.
The other inputs, including irrigation, seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, exten-
sion services and rural markets, will be provided by GOB, in conjunction with
the construction and improvement of project roads, as part of GOB's on-going
agriculture and rural development plans.
5.02      The required information was provided by REO and GOB and each road
was subjected to detailed economic analysis using the methodology outlined
below. The main benefit of the project will be the increased agricultural
producers' surplus in the areas of influence of the project roads, resulting
from the implementation of the package. Agricultural producers' surplus is
computed as the net value of agricultural production, i.e., the value of the
agricultural output minus the cost of all required agricultural inputs, on the
basis of attainable crop yields, input requirements, and projected prices of
outputs and inputs. The analysis also takes into account likely changes in
total area under irrigation, cropping pattern, use of improved inputs and
availability of more competitive rural transport supply. It is assumed that
the benefits would build up gradually over a period of up to seven years,
starting one year after the completion of the "package". On the infrastruc-
ture cost side, the cost of providing additional irrigation is included in
addition to the cost of road construction, improvement and maintenance.
5.03      A summary of the items included in the rural road survey forms is
provided in Annex 3. As part of project preparation, REO staff in the field
were actively involved in the collection of agricultural data, and an economist
was appointed to help carry out some economic analysis. As a result, REO is
now in a better position to undertake similar economic analysis for future
rural road construction programs.
5.04      For each of the three regions of Bihar (North, South and Chotanagpur
/Santhal Pargana), within which conditions are reasonably homogenous, it was
possible to project "with" and "without" scenarios for purposes of economic
evaluation. The "without" scenario assumes a situation where there may or
may not be effective irrigation, but where the lack of an all-weather road,
results in only limited use of improved seeds, fertilizer or pesticides,
resulting in inadequate yields. The "with" scenario assumes satisfactory
road and complementary agricultural and irrigation investments, leading to
gradually improved yields in the area of influence of the roads.
5.05      For preliminary screening necessary to reduce the initial 2,800 road
sections proposed down to manageable proportions, the following criteria were
used:
(i)  the proposed road would connect major villages with main
existing surfaced roads;
(ii)  the proposed road would serve arable areas with significant
irrigation, or where firm plans exist to provide effective
irrigation as part of the "package"; and
(iii)  the proposed road would provide all-weather communications
to permanent markets.



- 21 -
Roads meeting the above criteria, and considered most likely to be economic-
ally viable were ranked on the basis of regional average benefits and pre-
liminary cost estimates. This process produced a list of 252 roads worth
further analysis.
5.06      loads screened for further analysis fell into one of two types:
(i)  where irrigation exists in the area of influence and
no significant additional investment in irrigation is
planned; and
(ii)  where irrigation may or may not currently exist in the
area of influence, but significant investments in irri-
gation are firmly planned.
For currently irr-gated areas, it was assumed that 60% of potential benefits
have already taken place, leaving a further 40% to take place as a result of
the proposed all-weather road and the resulting improved availability to the
farmer of other inputs required for higher yields. Where additional invest-
ments in irrigation are planned, the increase in agricultural producers'
surplus was computed taking into account, in addition to the cost of road and
inputs, the cost of the planned irrigation. In both cases, it was assumed
conservatively that only 70% of the total attainable increase in agricultural
surplus will take place, and that this increase will take place uniformly over
a seven year period, beginning after the "package" is implemented.  Sample
calculations are shown in Annex 4. The possible alternative method of eco-
nomic analysis based on transport savings was not adopted since forecasting
of traffic would have involved assumptions on average loads and transport
costs on which little data exist, and would have resulted in underestimation
of benefits.
5.07      A vital input for the generation of benefits is provision of ade-
quate water control. In the case of tubewell irrigation, this will depend on
availability of diesel or electrical pumps; in the case of canal irrigation
there must be sufficient water for distribution and the system must not pro-
duce waterlogging or flooding. Zones known to be liable to annual flooding
were not included in the project, although before construction local surveys
will be needed to ensure that local topography does not cause unsatisfactory
drainage conditions. An understanding has been reached with GOB that addi-
tional criteria for route selection for construction or improvement (para
4.04) will be the existence of investments, or firm plans therefor, particu-
larly in irrigation, upon which the economic benefits of the route depend;
the existence of a fully operational all-weather road connection; and minimal
likelihood of severe flooding affecting the road construction program or the
economic benefits thereof.
B.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
5.08      The overall rate of return for the project is estimated at 21%.
On a regional basis, the average ERR's are 19% in North Bihar, 24% in South
Bihar, and 22% in Chotanagpur/Santhal Pargana. Changes in the ERR's resulting
from changes in benefits and costs are summarized below:



- 22 -
Benefits       Benefits
Benefits    Costs         Decrease &      Delayed
Best      Decrease  Increase    Costs Increase          One
Estimate        15%        15%             15%            Year
North Bihar           19           15         17             13               11
South Bihar           24           19         21             16               13
Chotanagpur/
Santhal Pargana    22             16         19             14               13
Overall Bihar         21           17         19             14               12
C.   Project Beneficiaries
5.09      The distribution of project benefits and the impact of the project
on the target population are illustrated as follows:
(i)  Direct beneficiaries.  The number of direct beneficiaries
of the project, i.e., the farmers who live in the area of
influence of the project roads and who will enjoy greater
accessibility and agricultural surplus, is estimated con-
servatively at about 2 million people. Road construction
and improvement, including brick and stone aggregate pro-
duction, will generate about 15 million man-days of direct
employment spread over four years; in addition, annual
road maintenance will require 60,000 man-days per year
after project completion. The employment thus created
will mainly benefit landless peasants and small farmers.
(ii)  Inter-regional benefit distribution.  In terms of allocation
of investment under the project, North Bihar is the most
favored region, with 55% of the total investment, followed
by South Bihar (38%) and Chotanagpur/Santhal Pargana (7%).
(iii)  Interpersonal benefits distribution.  It is expected that
ARDC's refinancing schemes for bullock carts in Bihar will
increase competition in rural road transport, and will
ultimately result in a more equitable distribution of
project benefits among farmers and road transport operators.
Also, the distribution of agricultural inputs is likely to
improve as a result of GOB's policy to secure their wider
and more regular availability to farmers, which will be
made easier by improved rural roads.
D.   Project Risks
5.10       The following events, if they took place, could affect project
benefits:



- 23 -
(i) early deterioration of the project roads as a result of
unforeseeable floods or traffic growth much larger than
forecast, coupled with inadequate road maintenance;
(ii)  delay in the implementation by GOB of complementa>y
irrigation investments; and
(iii) shortage or irregular availability of agricultural
inputs such as seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and
farm-to-market transport.
Precautions have been taken, insofar as possible, through design considerations
and suitable assurances from GOB, to minimize the above risks. Road selection
will be finalized according to agreed criteria. Roads will be built with
adequate drainage standards, and consideration will be given to the use of
causeways in flood-prone areas.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      GOB has already fulfilled an undertaking to complete the detailed
engineering of more than 50% of the project roads prior to negotiations.
6.02      During negotiations, the following were discussed and agreed:
(i) reporting and monitoring requirements (para 4.17);
(ii)  land acquisition (para 4.12);
(iii) criteria for route selection (para 4.04);
(iv)  technical audit of works on 10% of project roads (para 4.13);
(v) quality control (para 4.05);
(vi)  a phased program of road maintenance on all REO administered
roads to give proper maintenance by June 30, 1980 (para 4.06);
and
(vii) establishment of a Project Cell for supervision and monitor-
ing progress of works by March 31, 1981 (para 4.12).
6.03      During negotiations, the following were discussed and understandings
were reached:
(i) the criteria for selection of routes from the list given
in Table 6 (paras 4.04 and 5.07);
(ii)  the desirable level of expenditure for correct road
maintenance, (Rs 7,000 per km per year at 1980 prices)
and the equipment staff and training required (paras
4.06 and 4.07).



- 24 -
(iii) the use of contractors for construction and maintenance
and the conditions under which they shall be employed
(paras 4.04, 4.12 and 4.14);
(iv)  the staffing and functions of the Project Cell (paras
4.12 and 4.17);
(v) the schedules of mechanical equipment and vehicles given
in Table 7 and 8; and
(vi)  details of project reporting and monitoring shown in
Annex 2.
6.04      Details of project costs and implementation were discussed and
appropriate assurances received (para 4.11).
6.05      The project would provide a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$35 million on standard terms to the Government of India.



- 25 -
Table 1
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Road Network in Bihar and India
Bihar                    All India
Kms      (% Surfaced)       Kms      (% Surfaced)
(1,000's)    '(1,000's)
National Highways                2.2          (95)           29.1          (98)
State Highways
(maintained by PWD)           15.2          (92)          413.9          (77)
Zila Parashad Roads
(maintained by District
authorities)                  39.8           (7)          231.1          (25)
Rural Roads (maintained
by REO)                        6.7          (83)          411.0          (14)
Urban Roads (maintained
by municipal authorities)    2.2            (61)           85.7          (73)
Project Roads (maintained
by other government
departments)                  14.1          (2.0)         204.4          (8.1)
Total      80.2           (32)       1,375.2           (39)
Source:  GOB statistics, GOI, MOST, Transport Research Division "Regional
Profile of Roads and Road Transport 1975-76" April 1979.
February 1980



- 26 -
Table 2
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Bihar Motor Vehicle Statistics
Average
1967/68      1975/76      1977/78      Annual Increase
Motorcycles and Scooters        14,828       42,274       57,213              14
Auto Rickshaws                     198        1,689        2,461              31
Cars, Taxis and Jeeps          23,480        36,273       37,510               5
Buses                            3,384        4,390        6,728               6
Trucks                          13,295       16,215       21,184               4
Tractors                         1,253        8,434        9,109              22
Trailers                         1,131        4,912        5,801              18
Total               57,569       114,187      140,006               9
Source: State Transport Department, Bihar
November 1979



- 27 -
Table 3
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Non-motorized Transport in Bihar (1977)
Bullock Carts                  713,887
Horses and Ponies               94,274
Mules                            1,324
Donkeys                         28,090
Source: Livestock Census of Bihar, 1977.
March 1980



- 28 -
Table 4
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Vehicle, Plant and Equipment Fleets of PWD and REO
PWD                        REO
Type                  No.      % Available        No.      % Available
Road Roller, Diesel          328          63             182           90
Road Roller, Steam           106          24
Trucks                        17          59
Jeeps                         44          77             112           94
Station Wagons                 3           0
Tractors, Agricultural         9          89               5           80
Trailers                       5          60               5           80
Concrete Mixers              120          50
Asphalt Mixers                36          28
Asphalt Heaters              166          36
Asphalt Sprayers               2           0
Hotmix Plant                   8          38
Water Pumps                   39          26
Water Tankers                  7          71
Vibrators                     76         100
Stone Crushers                 7          14
Hand Roller                    1           0
Source: PWD and REO statistics
March 1980



- 29 -
Table 5
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Annual Expenditures on Roads of REO and PWD 1974 to 1980
(millions of Rs)
Year        National Roads    State Roads          Rural Roads        District
Const.    Main.  Const.   Main.   Const.         Main.   Boards /a
1974/75      49.0        7.7   118.7    45.0    41.0          3.0       4.0
1975/76      57.6       18.0   141.3    61.6    45.5          3.0       5.0
1976/77      62.3       29.2   150.1    77.2    60.0          2.0      11.6
1977/78      65.2       29.3   156.2    76.8    61.2          4.0      12.8
1978/79      64.6        5.3   179.3    90.0   112.2          4.0      35.5
1979/80
(Allocation)  64.0        24.7   189.5    97.0    95.0         15.0      20.0
1980/81
(Allocation)  n.a.        n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   140.0         25.0      n.a.
Maintenance
Allocation
(Rs/Km)
in 1979/80         11,243             6,395               2,243       501
/a   For construction and maintenance
Source: Government of Bihar Financial Records
March 1980



INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Possible Project Roads - North Bihar
Survey of India                                            Estimated
Route Reference                                                                             Map Reference                Length           Work 1/        Cost
Number             District                       Description of Route                     Number                     (Km)         Proposed       (Rs'OOOs)
1)          N/BEG/2K             Begusarai          Bhairwar to Gorganwa                             NG45.10  258 093               1.0               C              334
2)          N/BEG/3K             Begusarai          NH 31 to Phulwaria                               NG45.10  258 093               2.0               C              664
3)          N/BET/IK             W. Champaran       Binwalia to Chengauna                            NG45.1  239 115                2.0               C              684
4)          N/BET/3K             W. Champaran       Mathura to Pirari                                NG45.1  241 114               13.2                C           4,353
5)          N/BET/4K             W. Champaran        Sargatia-Link Road                              NG45.5  241 112                5.0                C           1,686
6)          N/BET/5K             W. Champaran       Rudalpurpaterwa to Dumri                         NC45.5  239 111                 3.5               C           1,312
7)          N/BET/6K             W. Champaran       Baghambarpurto to Rampumwa                       NG45.5  242 iII                5.0                C           2,016
8)          N/BET/7K             W. Champaran       Mahespur to Bhasurari                            NG45.1  240 114                6.4                C           2,098
9)          N/BET/8K             W. Champaran       Kaitwalia to Chauby Tola                         NG45.5  240 III                6.0                C           2,027
10)          N/BET/10K            W. Champaran       Jagdishpur to Mach Harganwa                      NG45.5  240 109                16.5               C           5,810
11)          N/BET/IIK            W. Champaran       Gawchari to Marjadwa Station                     NG45.1  241 113                 8.0               C           3.073
12)          N/BET/12K            W. Champaran       Narkatiaganj to Pokharia to Baithar              NG45.1  240 114               12.0                C           4,865
13)          N/BIR/lK             Saharsa            PWD Road to Charne                               NG45.7  267 101               10.0                C           4,413
14)          N/BIR/2K             Saharsa            Piprahi to Barmotra                              NG45.6  265 103               10.0                C           3,707
15)          N/BIR/5K             Saharsa            Birpur to Baurahia                               NG45.7  267 106                 7.0               C           5,253
16)          N/MADHE/lK           Saharsa            Link Road to Majaura                             NG45.10 267 096                3.0                C           1,400
17)          N/MADHE/2K           Saharsa            Rajpur-Khurman Malik-Shahidpur                   NG45.10 265 096               12.0                C           5,445
18)          N/MADHE/3K           Saharsa            Litiahi to Baijnathapur                          NG45.10 263 100               35.0               C           13.232
19)          N/MADHE/SK           Saharsa            Tikulia to Lakshmipur Bhagwati                   NG45.7  267 100               10.0               C            5,603
20)          N/MOT/IK             E. Champaran       Kushar to Khizirpur                              NG45.5  243 105                1.0               C              296
21)          N/MOT/2K             E. Champaran       Patauratola Bhataha to Baswaria                  NG45.5  245 108                3.0               C              887
22)          N/MOT/4K             E. Champaran       Madubani Village Link                            NG45.5  243 107                2.0               C              590
23)          N/MOT/SK             E. Champaran       Ranjita to Dudhahi                               NG45.5  242 109                2.0               C              590
24)          N/MOT/6K             E. Champarao       Tajpur Patkhulia to Sundarpur                    NG45.5  243 107                2.0               C              681
25)          N/MOT/8K             E. Champaran        isawania to Sinhasini                           N045.5  243 111                3.0               C              986
26)          N/MOT/9K             E. Champaran       Kanchedwa to Papariya                            NG45.5  242 108                2.0               C              663                          o
27)          N/MOT/18K            E. Champaran       Areraj Market to Bariaria                        NG45.5  242 107                9.0               C            4.304
28)          N/MOT/19K            E. Champaran       Bhuwachhapr to Koila Belwa                       NG45.5  245 105                3.0               C              995
1/  C:  Construction of new All-Weather Road.
I: Improvement or Strengthening of Existing (but deteriorated) All-Weather Road.
September 1960



Survey of India                                         Estimated
Route Reference                                                                         Map Reference              Length           Work          Cost
Number              District           Description of Route                            Number                   (Km)          Proposed-/   (Rs'OOOs)
29)         N/MOT/21K           E. Champaran      Siswa Narsing to Puran Chapra                 NG45.5  244 105               6.0              C           2,327
30)         N/MOT/22K           E. Champaran      Mananpur Market to Siswa Kharar               NG45.5  244 106               5.0              C           1,921
31)         N/SAH/3K            Saharsa           Pama-Pastwar-Bishupur-Atalkha                 NG45.10 265 097              23.3              C           9,491
32)         N/SAH/4K            Saharsa           Patarghat to Gulam                            NG45.10 264 097               6.0              C           2,625
33)         N/SAM/1K            Samastipur        Chand Chauk to Baikunth                       NG45.10 253 097               4.0              C           1,063
34)         N/SAR/3P            Saran             Manjhi to Barauli (Segment)                   NG45.9  240 099              14.5               I          5,116
35)         N/SIK/3K            E. Champaran      Patahijado to Kodaria Market                  NG45.5  247 107               5.0              C           1,804
36)         N/SIW/1P            Siwan             Copalganj to Maharajgani                      NG45.5  239 103              25.6               I          8,166
37)         N/SIW/2P            Siwan             Manjhi to Barauli (Segment)                   NG45.5  240 101              30.2              I          12,582
38)         N/SIW/3P            Siwan             Mairwa to Kuchaikot                           NG45.5  236 104              12.8               I          4,306
39)         N/SUP/iK            Saharsa           Jadia to Purnea Border                        NG45.7  267 101              18.0              C           7,573
40)         N/SUP/3K            Saharsa           Kankar-Harihar Patti                          NG45.6  267 101              30.0               C         16,928
41)         N/SUP/2K            Saharsa           Manganj to Pilwaha                            NG45.6  266 102               5.0               C           2,137
42)         N/SUP/4K            Saharsa           Parsami to Chikni                             NG45.6  262 101              16.0               C           7,115
Reserve Schedule
43)         N/BIR/3K            Saharsa           Chhatapur to Ratansar                         NG45.7  267 102              15.0               C           7,797
44)         N/MADHE/4K          Saharsa           Singheshwarsthan to Maura-Bahrari Road        NG45.10 265 100              16.0              C           9,616
45)         N/SAH/2K            Saharsa           Sonbarsa Kachehari Station to Bhaghawa        NG45.10 261 097              12.0              C           8,514
Average ERR for all Roads in North Bihar (including reserve schedule):  19%
Range: 12-63%
l/  C:  Construction of new All-Weather Road.                                                                                                                                           X >
L:  Improvement or Strengthening of Existing (but deteriorated) All-Weather Road.
Note:   Roads ntumber 1) through 42) constitute the set of project roads.  Roads 43) through 45) have ERRs lower than any project road, although at least 12%.                          o
They are listed here so that they may be considered by IDA in the event that additions or substitutions are necessary in the set of project roads,
as a result of unit cost underruns or other reasons acceptable to IDA.  Any change in the set of project roads will be subject to IDA approval.
Source: REO and Appraisal Mission
September 1980



INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Possible Project Roads - South Bihar
Survey of India                                         Estimated
Route Reference                                                                                                      Map Reference           Length           Work  1/         Cost
Number               District                               Description of Route                                    Number                (Km)          Proposed         (Rs'OOOs)
1)          S/AUR/3K              Ailrangabad        Kasma to Arthna                                                          NG45.13 241 085           3.0              C               1,426
2)          S/AUR/4K              Aurangabad         Feshar to Unthu                                                          NG45.13 238 087           4.9              C               1,110
3)          S/AUR/6K              Aurangabad         Mile 4 of Rafiganj-Goh Road to Lata                                      NG45.13 240 087           9.0              C               2,775
4)          S/AUR/7K              Aurangabad         Haria to Bairwan                                                         NG45.13 237 084           2.0              C                 524
5)          S/AUR/8K              Aurangabad         REO Road to Bariawan                                                     NG45.13 236 085           1.3              C                 337
6)          SIAUR/9K              Aurangabad         Hanspura to Gobardhanpur                                                 NG45.13 239 089           2.8              C                  754
7)         S/AtlR/llK            Aurangabad          Bel to Pauthu                                                            NG45.13 239 087          15.5              C               3,515
8)         S/AUR/12K             Aurangabad          Jailwan to Mahuwan                                                       NG45.13 239 085           4.0              C               1,211
9)         S/AUR/16K             Aurangabad          Bhupatpur to Kachanpur                                                  NG45.13 238 086            3.9              C               1,307
10)         S/AUR/17K             Aurangabad          Madanpur to Umga                                                         NG45.13 240 084           5.6              C               1,129
11)         S/AUR/18K              Aurangabad         Berhni to Pachokhar Banua                                                NG45.13 238 084           9.5              C               3,404
12)          K/BAN/IK              Bhagalpur          Dhauni to Bhagalpur-Duoka PWD Road                                       NG45.15 267 088           1.0              C                 283
13)          S/BANt2P              Bhagalpur          Punsia to Dhoraiya                                                       NG45.10 266 087          14.4              1               2,644
14)         S/BHAB/IK             Rhotas              Barkakatr to Mile 11 of Kolhas-Mohania NH                                NG44.12 231 091           1.5              C                 465
15)         S/B1AB/2K             Rhotas             Mile 4 of Kolhas-Mohania NH to Kuchilla                                   NG44.12 232 092           4.0              C               1,288
16)         S/BHAB/3K             Rhotas             Mile 13 of Kolhas-Mohania NH to Muian                                     NG44.12 230 091           2.3              C                 762
17)         S/BHAB/4K             Rhotas             Mile 11 of Kolhas-Mohania NH to Barhupar                                 NG44.12 231 092            5.1              C               1,575
18)         S/BHAB/SK             Rhotas             Mile 3 of Bamgarh-Nuaon Road to Sehuka                                   1444.12 229 093           2.0              C                  661
19)         S/BNAB/IP             Rhotas             Bhabua to Jahanabad (Kudra)                                              N044.12 230 090          17.6               1               3,504
20)         S/BUIY/lK             Bhojpur            Km 7 of Chausa-Kolhas PWD Road to Rajpur                                 NG44.12 233 094           0.7              C                  166
21)         S/BUX/2K              Bhojpur            Parari to Niyajipur                                                      N145.9  235 097           5.0              C                1,175
22)         S/BUX/3K              Bhojour            Mile I of Nawanagar-Surajpur DB Road to Rupsagar V. Road                 NG45.9  236 093           0.8              C                  198
23)         S/BUX/5K              Bhojpur            Mile 4 of Bhojpur-Dumsari PRD Road to Kazpur                             NG45.9  236 096           1.0              C                  278
24)         StBUY/6K              Bhojpur            Krishna Brahm to Delha                                                   NG45.9  236 096           5.5              C                1,574
25)         5/813717K             Ehoinur            Km 3 of Raghumatpur-Bagen Road to Pokhraham V Road                       N145.9  237 095           1.0              C                  313         H
I/  C:  Construction of new All-Weather Road                                                                                                                                                          o w
1:  Improvement or Strengthening of Existing (but deteriorated) All-Weather Road.



Survey of India                                        Estimated
Route Reference                                                                                                 Map Reference          Lengtb          Work  1/          Cost
Number               District                           Description of Route                                   Number               (Km)         Proposed          (Rs'OOOs)
26)        R/BHAGtlP            Bhagalpur         Nathanagar to Rhadanagar                                              NG45.10 266 090          9.6             I              2,009
27)        S/BlIAG/2P           Bhagalpur         Sultanganj to Shakund                                                 NG45.10 263 091         12.2             T              2,698
28)        S/GAY/2K             Gaya              REO Road to Siripur                                                   NG45.13 245 088          0.5             C                119
29)        S(GAY/4K             Gaya              Tituia to Gafa Khurd                                                  NG45.13 245 085          2.0             C                521
30)        S/GAY/6K             Gaya              Wazirganj Station to Ghuriawan                                        NG45.13 247 086          4.0             C              1,261
31)        S/GAY/8K             Gaya               Mile 15 of Gaya-Daudnagar Road to Utran                              NG45.13 243 087          0.4             C                 90
32)        SIGAY/9K             Gaya              Gapatpur to Bar                                                       NG45.13 242 083          1.0             C                233
33)        S/GAY/1lK            Gaya              Pathara to Tankupa                                                    NG45.19 246 085         2.8              C              1,091
34)        S/GAY/14K            Gaya              Bartara to Mangrawan                                                  NG45.13 246 085          3.5             C              1,041
35)        S/GAY/15K            Gaya              Tarwan to Meari                                                       NG45.13 247 085          2.0             C                802
36)        S/GAY/16V            Gaya              CT Road Near Dobhi to Kusabija                                        NG45.13 243 083          1.0             C                203
37)        S/GAY/17R            Gaya              Hathmarwa to Nagwan                                                   NG45.13 248 085         10.0             C              2,327
38)        S/GAY/19K            Gaya              Goitha to Panion                                                      NG45.13 240 083          2.5             C              2,835
39)        S/GAY/21K            Gaya              Mile 16 Fatehpur-Gaya Road to Dhibar                                  NG45.13 246 084          0.3             C                220
40)        S/GAY/22K            Gaya              Lakrahi-Dariapur Kurua-Bagdhi                                         NG45.13 242 085          5.0             C              1,030
41)        SIGAY/23K            Gaya              Kormathu to Intara                                                    NG45.13 244 086          5.0             C              1,106
42)        S/GAV/25K            Gaya              Kurkihar to Amethi                                                    NG45.13 247 086          3.0             C                879
43)        S/GAY/27K            Gaya               Sandiha to Kaniausi                                                  NG4S.13 242 086          4.0             C                960
44)        S/GAY/30K            Gaya              Atribaborma to Jimraur                                                NG45.13 247 088         14.8             C              5,087
45)        S/JAH/IK             Gaya              Kurtha Road to Sisama                                                 NG45.9  243 090          0.5             C                114
46)        S/JAH/2K             Gaya              Jamanapur REO Road to Kansua                                          NG45.9  243 090          1.3             C                473
47)        S/IAH/3K             Gaya              PWD Road to Nonhimore                                                 NG45.9  245 091          1.0             C                209
48)        q/JAH/4K             Gaya              Kakato to Utter Sarthu                                                NG45.9  245 091          6.3             C              1,585
49)        S/JAH/SK             Gaya              Kurtha to Pandaul                                                     NG45.9  243 090          3.2             C                895
50)        S/JAb/6K             Gaya              REO Road to Dewara                                                    NG45.9  246 092          3.5             C              1,121
51)        S/JAH/7K             Gaya              Bedarabad-Belkhara Road to Rampur Chaurah                             NG45.9  241 091          3.8             C              1,210
52)        S/LAK/3K             Monghyr            Chakandra Link to Sheikhpura-Sikandra PWD Road                       NG45.10 254 089          1.0             C                292
53)        S/LAK/4K             Monghyr           MNP Road No. 68 to Itaun                                              NG45.10 257 089          1.6             C                462
54)        S/LAK/5K             Monghyr            Dhira Link to Lakhisarai-Sikandra PWD Road                           NG45.10 256 088          0.8             C                258
1/  C:  Construction of new All-Weather Road.
1: Improvement or Strengthening of Existing (but deteriorated) All-Weather Road.



Survey of India                                               Estimated
Route Reference                                                                                                         Map Reference           Length               Work              Cost
Number               District                                Description of Route                                      Number                (Km)             Proposed1-         (Rs'OOOs)
55)           S/LAK/6K             Monghyr             Surajgarha-Kajra PWD Road to Urain                                        NG45.10 258 090             4.8                C               1,384
56)           S/LAK/7K             Monghyr            Unman Link-Bar  Bigha-Shekhupur Sarai PWD Road                             NG45.10 253 090             1.0                C                 297
57)          S/LAK/8K              Monghyr            Suraigarha-Barhia PWD Road to Marpur                                       NG45.10 257 090             6.0                C              1,728
58)           S/LAK/9K             Monghyr            MNP Road No. 68 to Gohri                                                   NG45.10 257 089             1.6                C                 462
59)          S/NAW/lK              Nawadah            Daulatpur to Shur                                                          NG45.10 251 088             0.5                C                 128
60)         S/NAW/lOK              Nawadah            Bhatta (No. 35A) to Siur                                                   NG45.14 252 086             5.0                C               1,505
61)         S/NAW/liK              Nawadah            Toladin to Amawan                                                          NG45.14 250 085             3.5                C                 916
62)         S/NAW/14K              Nawadah            Lohanipur (NH 31) to Tiar                                                  NG45.14 250 086             4.8                C               1,451
63)         S/NAW/17K              Nawadah            Jalpa to Rals                                                              NG45.14 251 087             4.1                C               1,044
64)         S/PAT/lK               Patna              Singariawan Station to Shahjahanpur                                        NG45.9  248 093             2.0                C                 720
65)         S/SAS/lK               Rhotas             Km 28 of Sasaram-Koihas Road to Balthari                                   NG44.12 233 091             1.0                C                 292
66)          S/SAS/3K              Rhotas             KM 14 of Barawan-Dinarar Road to Barahri V. Road                           NG45.9  234 091             6.0                C               1,616
67)          S/SAS/4K              Rhotas             Km 4 of Amari-Babhanpurwa Road to Nahauna Road                             NG45.13 235 089             1.0                C                 266
68)          S/SAS/5K              Rhotas             Km 30 of Sasaram-Malhipur Road to Ugahni V. Road                           NG44.16 231 087             1.0                C                 281
69)          S/SAS/6K              Rhotas             Km 4 of Nagariganj-Nokha PWD Road to Parsia                                NG45.9  236 090             2.0                C                 563
70)          S/SAS/7K              Rhotas             Km 13 of Bikramganj-Nasariganj Road to Burhawal Road                       NG45.9  237 090            2.5                 C                 707
71)          S/SAS/8K              Rhotas             Km 18 of Bikramganj-Nasariganj PWD Road to Baradih V. Road                NG45.9  237 090             3.0                 C                 932
Reserve Schedule
72)         S/AUR/1OK              Aurangabad         Panthu to Itawan                                                          NG45.15 239 088            8.0                 C              2,610
73)         S/AUR/13K              Aurangabad         Nabinagar to Pawari-Tarwan Road                                           NG45.13 235 084            6.6                 C              5,379
74)         S/GAY/1CK              Gaya               Guraru-Mathurpor Road to Tilori                                           NG45.13 242 086            2.4                 C                452
75)         S/CAY/13K              Gaya               Kabirpur REO Road to Naili                                                NG45.13 246 088            2.0                 C                646
76)         S/NAW/4K               Nawadah            Kachna-Horm Kawakole Road to  uiri                                        NG45.14 253 084            1.0                 C                375
77)         S/NAW/13K              Nawadah            Manjitur to Mai                                                           NG45.14 251 088            1.0                 C                348
78)         S/NAW/16K              Nawadah            Mathurapur to Nawadi                                                      NG45.14 253 086            3.1                 C              1,068
Average ERR for South Bihar Roads: 24%
Range: 10-56I
of>C
1/  C:  Constrrctioo of new All-Weather Road.
I:  Improvement or Strengthening of Existing (but deteriorated) All-Weather Road.
Note:   Roads number 1) through 71) constitute the set of project roads.  Roads 72) through 78) have ERRs lower than any project road, althoulgh at least 10%.  They arc listed
here so that they may be considered by IDA in the event that additions or substitutions are necessary in the set of project roads, as a result of unit coat -nderruns
or other reasons acceptable to IDA. Any change in the set of projoct roads will be subject to IDA approval.
Source: REO and Appraisal Mission
September 1980



INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Possible Project Roads - Chotanagpur/santhal Pargana
Survey of India                                       Estimated
Route Reference                                                                        Map Reference         Length          Work              Cost
Number           District          Description of Route                               Number              (Km)        Proposed-         (Rs'OOOs)          Remarks
1)        C/DEO/lK           Palamnau          Madhupur to Lahajori                           NF45.14 262 078         19.0C                           8,842
2)         C/KHU/4K           Ranchi           Karra to Urikel                                NF45.5  243 063          5.0            C                1,136
3)         C/lHU/7K          Ranchi            Sonahatu to Jamudag                            NF45.2  252 067          9.0            C                2,089
4)         C/RAN/IK          Ranchi            Murma to Tandul                                NF45.1  246 068          2.0            C                  410
5)        C/RAN/2K           Ranchi            Bero to Purio                                 NF45.1  224 068           3.0           C                   612
6)        C/RAN/3K           Ranchi            Khelari to Indrapuri                          NF45.1  244 072           2.0           C                   410
7)        C/RAN/4K           Ranchi            Itki Railway Station to Ranikhatanga          NF45.1  245 069           3.0           C                  615
8)        C/RAN/7K           Ranchi           Anandi to Baridih                              NF45.2  249 070           1.5           C                  313
9)        C/SAR/4K           Singhbhum        Kuju to Icha                                   NF45.6  253 059           2.5           C                  390        May be submerged by
irrigation reservoir
10)        C/SIM/IK           Ranchi           Karmdih to Barkibura                           NF45.5  233 060           3.0           C                  619
49.0                           15,436
Estimated E.R.R. for ChotanagpurlSanthal Pargana Roads: 22%
Range: 11-54%
1/  C:  Construction of new All-Weatber Road.
I: Improvement or Strengthening of Existing (but deteriorated) All-Weather Road.
Source: REO and Appraisal Mission
September 1980



- 36 -
Table 7
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Plant and Equipment for REO Road Construction and Maintenance
No. to be
Procured in
Rs lOOO's  Year  1   2   3   4
1.  8-10 ton Diesel Rollers, 67 No. @ Rs 230,000  15,410                8  35  24   -
2.  lOt/hr Asphalt Mixers, 13 No. @ Rs 200,000          2,600           3   7   3   -
3.  Bitumen Kettles with Hand Pump and Lance
87 No. @ Rs 19,000                               1,653          20  48  19   -
4.  Bitumen Distributors, 6,000 L, 2 No. @
Rs 500,000                                       1,000            1   1   -   -
5.  Bitumen Preheaters, 6,000 L, 2 No. @
Rs 350,000                                         700            -   1   1   -
6.  Mobile Concrete Mixers, 10/7, 53 No. @
Rs 17,000                                          901           28  25   -   -
7.  Concrete Vibrators, 25 No. @ Rs 4,000                 100          15  10   -   -
8.  F.W.D. Pick-ups for Mobile Laboratories,
4 No. @ Rs 90,000                                  360            4   -   -   -
9.  F.W.D. Supervision Vehicles, 48 No. @
Rs 70,000 /a                                     3,336           32  16   -   -
10. Mobile Drilling Rig, 1 No. @ Rs 200,000                200           1   -   -   -
26,289
Spares, 17% (say)              4,716
31,000
Expenditures in Year 1 (1980/81) =  8,012,000 + 1,393,000 from Table 8
Expenditures in Year 2 (1981/82) = 14,988,000
Expenditures in Year 3 (1982/83) =  8,000,000
Expenditures in Year 4 (1983/84) =          -
Expenditures in Year 5 (1984/85) =          -
31,000,000
/a   Includes 12 retroactively financed.
Source: Mission Estimates
September 1980



- 37 -
Table 8
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Schedule of Materials Testing and Survey Equipment
Rs.
1.  Fine sieves, 12 sets @ Rs 750                                         9,000
2.  Coarse sieves, 12 sets @ Rs 950                                      11,400
3.  Sample ejectors, 1-1/2" dia., 8 sets @ Rs 700                         5,600
4.  Liquid limit- apparatus, 8 sets @ Rs 850                              6,800
5.  Balance with weights, 250 g., 12 @ Rs 400                             4,800
6.  Compaction apparatus, 12 sets @ Rs 1600                              19,200
7.  Gun metal moulds for Item (6), 16 @ Rs 1300                          20,800
8. Rammer, 4.39 kg x 450 mm fall for Item (6),
12 @ Rs 500                                                         6,000
9.  Core cutter, 8 @ Rs 400                                               3,200
10.  Sand pourer complete, 8 @ Rs 450                                      3,600
11.  CBR gun metal moulds, 32 @ Rs 1400                                   44,800
12.  Slotted metal weights, 5 kg, 32 @ Rs 75                               2,400
13.  Perforated plates, 148 mm dia., 32 @ Rs 150                           4,800
14.  Annular metal weights, 2.5 kg, 32 @ Rs 75                             2,400
15.  Rapid moisture testers, 0-50%, 12 @ Rs 1500                          18,000
16.  Flakiness thickness gauges, 12 @ Rs 450                               5,400
17.  Branger balance with weights, 10 kg, 12 @ Rs 750                      9,000
18.  Hydraulic jack, 10 tons, 8 @ Rs 1,100                                 8,800
19. Compression teting machine, 100 tons, with pumping unit and
pressure gauge to 100 t x 500 kg. 220 v, 4 @ Rs 24,500             98,000
20. Vibrating machine, to I. S. 4031, 220 v, with time switch,
4 @ Rs 5,500                                                       22,000
21.  Spare cube moulds for Item (20) 7.06 cm, 48 @ Rs 200                  9,600
22. Compression testing machine, 25 ton, for teting cement
mortar cubes, 220 v, with pumping unit and presure gauge,
25 ton x 100 kg, 4 @ Rs 16,500                                     66,000
23. Cube moulds, 14 cm, cast iron with machined base plate,
100 @ Rs 300                                                       30,000
24.  Slump cone apparatus to I. S. 1199-1959, 16 @ Rs 900                 14,400
25.  Transit theodolites with tripods, 22 @ Rs 7,500                     165,000
26.  Surveyors' levels with tripods, 44 @ Rs 3500                        154,000
27.  Miscellaneous small materials testing equipment                      24,000
28.  Miscellaneous small survey equipment                                 24,000
795,000
29.  Materials testing equipment to be retroactively financed            600,000
Total    1,393,400
Source: Mission Estimates
February 1980



INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Costs by Year
(Roneen Millions)
1980/81                            1981/82                             1982/83                            1983/84                            1984/85                             Tonal
local   Poreg    Tan   Cora1    Local   toreigo   Tan   Total    Local   Porelgo   Tax   Total    Local   Foreign   Tao   Total    Local   ForeRg-   Tan   Tonal   Local toretge   Tta   Tonal
T.  load Coos.cro. loo a-d                                                   -__Tt___L ..._I___
Inprovenenr__-                     10.24    1.45    0.48   12.17    36.55    5.46    2.01   44.02    62.45           9.33   3.41   75.19    63.98       9.56   3.53   77.07    46.86    7.01    2.56   56.43  220.08          32.81  12.09  264.88
Conntigenolen:  Q-antity lOT          1.02    0.15    0.06    1.23        3.65    0.55    0.20    4.40       6.25      0.93   0.34    7.52       6.40      0.96   0,35    7.71      4.68    0.70    0.26    5.64   22.00         3.29   1.21   26.50
Price                0.85    0.12    0.115    1 .02      7.39    1.10    0.41    8.90    18.48        2.76   1.01   22.25    25.34       3.78   1.40   30.52    23.43    3.50    1.28   28.21   75.49    11.26   4.t5   90.90
Total (:onts.        1.87    0.27    0.11    2.25    11.04    1.65    0.61   13.30    24.73           3.69   1.35   29.77    31.74       4.74   1.75   38.23    28.11    4.20    1.54   33.85   97.49    14.55   5.36  117.40
Total I sith(. ontingn-ia            l2.11    1.72    0.59   14.42    47.59    7.11    2.62   22.32    87,18    13.02   4.76  104.96    95.72    14.30   5.28  115.30    74.97  1t.21   4O10   90.28  317.57    47.36  17.33  382.28
TI.  load Con trocti-o a-d
Maintenaane tquip-ent
ead Space Parts                     6.54    1,53    0.94    9.41    11.06    2.42    1.51   14.99          5.90      1.29   0.81    8.00        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -      23.90      5.24   3.26   32.40
Co-tioeooi-s:  Q-ontity 5y           0.34      .09    0.04    0.47       0.55    0.12    0.08    0.75       0.30      0.06   0.04    0.40        -         -      -        -         -       _        _        _       1.19     0.27   0.16    1.6Z
Price                0.34    0.42    0.06    0.72        2.14    0.47    0.29    2.90       1.67      0.37   0.23    2.27       -4.35                                                                           0.      0.58    5.89
Total Coerge.        0.88    0.21    0.10    1.19        2.69    0.59    0.37    3.65       1.97      0.43   0.27    2.67       -         -       -       -         -        -        -       -       5.54      1.23   0.74    7.51
Tonal II  itnh Conrtngencies          7.82    1.74    1.04   10.60    13.75    3.01    1.88   18.64          7.87      1.72   1.08   10.67        -                                                                      _ -  -  -  -  -  -  29.44  6.47   4.80   39.91
111. Sopertyisio
(a)  Operating Coot                   1.30      0.31   0.21    1.90       1.17    0.26    0.37    1.60       1.17      0.26   0.17    1.60       1.17     0.26   0.17    1.60       0.95    0.21    0.14    1.30    5.84         1.30   0.86    8.00
(b)  Snaff                            2.25       -       -      2.25       .51              -        .51     1.50 --                   1.50 1.50  1 - l                    1.50     1.25      -        -      1.25     8.00       -       -       8.00
Togal III            3.63      0.31   0.21    4.15      2.67    0.26    0.17    3.10        2.67      0.26   0.17    3.10      2.67      0.26   0.17    3.10       2.20    0.21    0.14    2.55    13.84        1.30   0.86   16.00
C-otitgen-cio:  Qoantity lOT          0.36      0.03   0,02    O.4I       0.26    0.03    0.02    0.31       0.26      0.03   0.02    0.31       0.26      0.03   0.02    0.31      0.22    0.02    0.01    0.25        1.36      0.14   0.09    1.59
Price                0.30      0,03   0.02        0.35   0.55    0.05    0.13    0.63       1.84      0.07   0.05    0.96       1.13     0.10   0.06    1.29       1.16    0.11    0.07       1.34     3.98     0.36   0.23    4.57                       F
Total Cootgs.        0.66      0.06   0.04    0.76      0.81    0.08    0.05    0.94        1.10      0.10   0.07    1.27       1.39     0.13   0.08    1.60       1.38    0.13    0.08    1.59       5.34      0.50   0.32    6.16
Total 117 otth CoenRigencies          4.29      0.37   0.25    4.91       3.48    0.34    0.22    4.04       3.77      0.36   0.24    4.37       4.06     0.39   0.25    4.70       3.58    0.34    0.22    4.14    19.18         1.80   1.18   22.16
OCood Total I - IT7                  20.81      3.29   1.63   25.73    50.28    8.14       3.69   62.11    71.02    10.88   4.39   86.29    46.65          9.82   3.70   80.17    49.06    7.22    2.70   58.98   257.82    39.35  16.11  313.28
Qaantity Contingencten              1.68      0.27   0.12    2.017      4.46    0.70    0.30    5.46       6.81      1.02   0.40    8.23       6.66     0.99   0.37    8.02       4.90    0.72    0.27    5.89    24.53        3.70   1.46   29.69
Price Cootingencies                 1.69      0.22   0,13    2.09    10.08    1.62    0.73   12.43    20.99          3.20   1.29   25.48    26.47       3.88   1.46   31.81      24.59    3.61    1.35   29.55    83.82    12.58   4.96  111.36
Tonal Contingeocies                 3.37      0.54   0.25    4.16    14.54    2.32    1.03   17.89    27.80          4.22   1.69   33.71    33.13       4.87   1.83   39.83    29.49    4.33    1.62   35.44   108.35    16.28   6.42  131.05
Grand Total with Coatingene          24.18      3.83   1.88   29.89    64.82   10.46    4.72   80.00    98.82    15.10   6.08  120.00    99.78    14.69   5.53  120.00    78.55    11.55   4.32   94.42   366.1 7    55.63  22.53  444.34
Ntot:  (1) Qlantity Cootingencies:  lIT for civil ourko (road coostcac.oln aod inpro--e-t) aod -pers..   ioni  51 fSo  eqaipaent.
(2) Prico Coatlrnolno   :  For donestic pricco: 104 in 1980; 7Y in 1981-83; 5Y in 1984-85.
Poe Onreraationall prices (applicable en indIrect foreign componeot): 10.5% ic 1980;
98 41 1981; 8% In 192; 7% io 1963-85.
(3) Rlad construction awli ip-roemeot caste consls-t of 874 local cost aod 132 indi-ect foreign cost.  For eqoip-ent,
the relevant figuras are 82Z aod 18%.  For -cper-ioin- (operating coot), 82U  and 18.  Soper-ision (saIff)
conI isto of 100% lo_sl cost.
(4) T-e Incidence: 4.83 .cr ciil -nrko (road  -contracio- and ioproseent); 11.21 for eqalip.ent; 121 for saper-lsion
(opee asing coets); and no taxes Soc sopervisoioo (stoff)
Soorce: Appraisal Mission
September 1980



- 39 -
Table 10
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year          Cumulative Disbursements to
and Quarter              end of Quarter (US$ '000)
1980/81
September 30, 1980
December 31, 1980
March 31, 1981                          0
June 30, 1981                         700
1981/82
September 30, 1981                  2,300
December 31, 1981                   4,200
March 31, 1982                      6,200
June 30, 1982                       8,300
1982/83
September 30, 1982                 10,500
December 31, 1982                  12,900
March 31, 1983                     15,400
June 30, 1983                      18,100
1983/84
September 30, 1983                 20,700
December 31, 1983                  23,200
March 31, 1984                     25,600
June 30, 1984                      27,900
1984/85
September 30, 1984                 30,000
December 31, 1984                  31,900
March 31, 1985                     33,600
June 30, 1985                      35,000
Source: Mission Estimates
Credit Effective Date: January 30, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
September 1980



- 40 -
Table 11
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Estimated Staff Requirements for Improved REO Rural Road Maintenance
Estimated Additional    Number of Staff
Estimated Necessary         Engineering Staff       to be Trained at
Year     Maintenance Expenditure            Required                CRRI, Delhi
(Rs Million) /a           (All Grades)
1979/80            15                           -                       15
1980/81            25                           50                      15
1981/82            23                           50                      15
1982/83            41                           50                      10
1983/84            49                           50                      10
1984/85            58                           50                      10
Total           221                          250                      75
/a   1980 prices
Source: Appraisal Mission
September 1980



- 41 -
Table 12
Page I of 2
BIHAR
BIHAR RURAL ROADS
Estimate of Additional Planning, Supervision,
Monitoring, Quality Control Costs and Operating Costs
Staff and Office Costs
For Planning:                                                          Rs
1 Superintending Engineer, 18 months @ Rs 2,000                  36,000
' Executive Engineers, 72 man months @ Rs 1,500                 108,000
1 Agro-Economist, 18 months @ Rs 1,500                           27,000
12 Asst. Engineers, 200 man months @ Rs 1,100                    220,000
Drawing Office Staff (L.S.)                                     100,000
Consumable Stores                                               300,000
791,000
Supervision of Construction, Project
Monitoring and Quality Control:
2 Superintending Engineers, 120 man months @ Rs 2,400           288,000
8 Executive Engineers, 450 man months @ Rs 1,800                810,000
24 Asst. Engineers, 1400 man months @ Rs 1,200                 1,680,000
48 Junior Engineers, 2500 man months @ Rs 700                  1,750,000
Laboratory Technicians, 700 man months @ Rs 600                 420,000
Drivers, 2000 man months @ Rs 450                               900,000
Casual Labor, 2000 man months @ Rs 250                          500,000
Consumable Stores (L.S.)                                        700,000
Research monitoring on agricultural and
socio-economic benefits                                      100,000
7,148,000
Total staff and office costs:               7,939,000
But say Rs 8.0 million
* For retroactive financing.
Year 1:  Rs 2.25 million (includes Rs 791,000 retroactively financed)
Year 2:  Rs 1.50 million
Year 3:  Rs 1.50 million
Year 4:  Rs 1.50 million
Year 5:  Rs 1.25 million



- 42 -
Table 12
Page 2 of 2
Operating Costs.
For Planning and Project Preparation:
Spares and repairs to vehicles, 108 veh-months
@ Rs 1,000, say                                                110,000
POL, 108 veh-months @ Rs 2,400, say                              260,000
370,000
For Supervision of Construction, Project
Monitoring and Quality Control:
Spares and repairs to vehicles, 1800 veh-months
@ Rs 900                                                     1,620,000
POL, 1800 veh-months @ Rs 3,000                                5,400,000
7,020,000
Field Laboratories:
Spares and repairs to vehicles, 150 veh-months
@ Rs 1,000                                                     150,000
POL, 150 veh-months @ Rs 2,400                                   360,000
510,000
Consumable Stores (L.S.)                                                   100,000
Total Operating Costs:                Rs 8,000,000
* For retroactive financing.
Year 1:  Rs 1.9 million (includes Rs 370,000 retroactively financed)
Year 2:  Rs 1.6 million
Year 3:  Rs 1.6 million
Year 4:  Rs 1.6 million
Year 5:  Rs 1.3 million
Source: Mission estimates
September 1980



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
The Role of Road Transport in Bihar
1.        Although road transport is becoming more important in long distance
freight movement in India as a whole, in Bihar, analysis of the nature of
agricultural produce, its market structure, seasonal variations and inputs,
indicates that the prime requirement of the small farrmer is for efficient
short distance transport providing direct access between farm and market.
Government marketing strategies and the extension of the feeder road network
will heighten this need and will require an increase in the supply of suit-
able vehicles. The requirement is for small units of transport able to oper-
ate over distances of 10 to 20 km, and either pick-up trucks or the improved
rubber-tired bullock cart would be suitable. However, the chronic shortage
of motor fuel coupled with the initial cost of a pick-up truck which puts it
quite out of reach of the average farmer, means that the animal-drawn cart
is the most practicable form of freight transport available for farmers.
2.        At present, road goods transport is dominated by trucks, tractor
trailers and bullock carts, mostly of the traditional wooden wheeled variety.
For the small and marginal farmer, bicycles appear to fulfill a significant
role in the transport of small consignments. Motorized light goods vehicles
and the mixed passenger/goods vehicle common in many countries are seldom
used, but are increasing in numbers. The major forms of transport are unevenly
distributed over the state: trucks are found mostly near towns and industrial
centers, tractor trailers are found mainly around Patna and in North Bihar
where jute and sugar are grown, while bullock carts tend to be concentrated
in the East and Southeast of the State. Figures for the growth of the truck
fleet in Bihar are erratic, and have averaged about 4 percent a year over
the last two or three years. However, this higher rate of growth recently
seems to be associated with a shortage of rail capacity for long distance
freight, rather than with farm-to-market transport, and future growth is
likely to take place in and near towns and industries. With a new truck
costing about Rs 150,000 (200 times the annual average per capita income
in Bihar) and continuing diesel shortages forecast, it does not seem likely
that use of trucks will increase sufficiently to provide the local transport
needed by farmers.
3.        Growth prospects for tractors and trailers are less clear.  There
has been a high rate of increase for tractors and trailers for some years,
but this seems to have been confined to areas where high bulk products like
jute and sugarcane are grown. While there does not appear to be any shortage
in the supply of tractors and trailers, the availability of credit and the
complexities of its administration are alleged to be a hindrance to faster
growth. Finance for tractor purchase is to be had through ARDC and other



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
organizations, but again the shortage of diesel fuel makes future growth
uncertain.
4.        The number of bullock carts in the state has declined in recent
years, but the annual decline in carts has been less than the increase in
improved rubber-tired carts: since the latter have a larger carrying capa-
city than the traditional cart, the bullock cart transport capacity in Bihar
has increased. Operating under ARDC refinancing schemes, a number of banks
are now willing to finance the purchase of improved rubber-tired carts, and
the Land Development Bank is considering financing about 3,000 such carts
in four districts in 1980-82, while the State Bank of India plans to finance
about 5,000 carts a year over the next two years. The target group in both
cases will be sugar and jute growers. Among other forms of non-motorized
transport, the bicycle and load carrying tricycle are the most important,
especially for short distances over surfaced roads. At present, their use
is limited to near urban areas, but any extension of the surfaced road net-
work will widen their area of use. Supply statistics are not available, but
ample stocks of bicycles seem to be available to towns and villages, the price
(about Rs 500) is affordable by the average worker. Even the bullock cart at
about Rs 1,800 for the traditional type and Rs 3,000 for the ADV cart, plus
bullocks in both cases, is almost beyond the reach of the small to medium
farmer, and it is likely that unsatisfied demand will encourage the wider
use of load carrying tricycles, as has happened elsewhere.
5.        In making cost comparisons between the different modes of trans-
port available to the farmer for his produce, it is necessary to make various
assumptions and comparison is made more difficult since the different vehicles
are usually not operating under the same conditions. However, accepting this
caveat, the following costs are estimated as being typical under Bihar con-
ditions.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Assumed Max    Cost per       Cost per         Average Charge
Vehicle Type    Payload (kg)   km (Rs)    tonne-km (Rs)   per tonne-km (Rs)
Truck
Tata 1210 SE           15,000        1.7             0.12  )
)         0.12-1.00
Hindustan J6-167       12,000        1.5             0.14  )
Pick-up
Bajaj Tempo
Matador                 2,000        0.6             0.28
Tractor-trailer
25 HP                   3,000        2.8            0.93  )
)           1.0-1.3
35 HP                   5,000        3.3            0.66  )
Power Tiller
12 HP                   1,000        1.4            1.42
Cycle Rickshaw            500        0.2             0.30               12-16
ADV Bullock Cart
Bank loan financed    2,500          1.1            0.44  )
)
Bank loan & subsidy   2,500          1.0            0.38  )             1.0-1.2
)
Private finance         2,500        0.9             0.36  )
Traditional Bullock
Cart
Private finance         1,000        1.0             1.00               0.75-3.0
These figures are general, covering operation on all types of road.  Data is
not sufficient to differentiate between various road types, but as a guide,
operation of a heavy truck on a pucca road is estimated locally at Rs 1.5
per km compared with Rs 2.6 per km on kutcha roads, an increase of about
70%. The apparently lower cost of privately financed bullock carts is due to
the very conservative assumption made in bank financing regarding annual
maintenance. The effect of the Government subsidy of 33.3% for marginal
farmers on the ADV cart, available under the Integrated Rural Development
Programme, is seen to be quite small on transport costs.
6.         The largest truck provides the cheapest transport, with the power
tiller as the most expensive. The pick-up truck is the second cheapest with



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
cycle rickshaws and the ADV cart as reasonable alternatives. However, if
damage to the road pavement were taken into account, the latter two alterna-
tives would become more attractive. Similarly, consideration of pavement
damage would increase the overall cost of operating the traditional bullock
cart. There is a reasonable comparison between costs and charges made in most
cases except for cycle-rickshaws, while the sometimes low charges for truck
transport are only made possible by the almost universal 25% overloading.
7.        The evidence is that within Bihar there is very little inter-modal
competition for farm goods transport. On the contrary, their relationship is
largely complementary, since the state of rural roads is often such that
trucks cannot penetrate into the small villages, while with a top speed of
about 5 kph, the bullock cart is limited to a maximum range of about 20 km.
Tractor trailers are able to operate on rougher roads and so extend the motor-
ized transport services, but use of tractors for road travel shortens their
working life and may not, therefore, be so profitable as it appears.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Reporting and Monitoring Requirements
1.        Within six months of the completion of the project, Government will
submit to the Association a Project Completion Report on the execution and
initial operation of the project, its costs and the 'senefits derived or
expected to be derived from it, an assessment of the performance by Govern-
ment and by the Association of their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purpose of the credit. Details of
the contents and requirements of the Project Completion Report were discussed
and agreed at negotiations.
2.        In order to assess more exactly the agricultural and transportation
benefits likely to accrue from the project, Government will undertake a pro-
gram to provide the following data in respect of an agreed sample of project
roads and their areas of influence:
(i) Progress of works. Quarterly reports will be compiled to
show the rate of progress of construction as compared with
the bid estimate and detailing causes for overruns of time,
if any;
(ii) Cost Information. Final cost of the works will be compared
with the engineers' estimate and the bid price. Assessment
will be made of the reasons for underruns or overruns of cost,
and unit prices will be compared, so far as possible, with
unit costs of work as carried out;
(iii) Complementary Investments. Progress in the implementation,
by GOB, of complementary investments in the area of influence
of the project road;
(iv) Traffic Counts. Classified traffic counts will be carried
out on the roads concerned (and on parallel routes which
may experience diversion) over sufficient periods before
and after construction to give estimates of annual average
daily traffic flows, and similar counts will be carried out
on nearby roads unaffected by the project to give a control
of local traffic growth. Traffic counts will include both
motorized and non-motorized traffic and an estimate of loads
carried. Origin and destination surveys may be required
in some cases;
\N



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page  2
(v) Agricultural Crops and Yields. Within the agreed area of
influence, details will be collected on types of crops,
average yields, crop areas, amounts and types of fertilizers,
pesticides and seeds used and availability of irrigation for
the periods before and after the project;
(vi) Transport of Produce. Surveys will be made before and after
the project to determine the amounts and types of crops moved,
origins and destinations of movement, period of storage (if
any) and type of storage used within the area of influece,
method of transport used, average transport costs and the
charges levied on clients, and ownership of vehicles used; and
(vii) Prices. Average farm gate and market prices for the principal
crops will be collected before and after the project with
similar data for control purposes from an area unaffected by
the project.
(viii) Socio-Economic Factors. In order to assess the impact of
rural road improvement on the social and economic life of
villages affected, IDA expects to collect data, with the
help of GOB, on a range of parameters such as industriali-
zation,education, health, rural electrification and fer-
tility rates in the area of influence, compared with
unaffected areas. Details of what are considered appropriate
parameters are to be found in the GOI National Council of
Applied Economic Research publication "Socio-Economic Impact
of Roads on Rural Development," (July 1979).



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Items Included in the Rural Road Survey Forms
REO collected the following items of information for each road in
the shortlist:
1.   Road Identification code; names of locations at both ends
of the road; district and block name.
2.   Road length.
3.   Present condition (brief description).
4.   Average daily traffic, classified by mode:  cars, heavy trucks,
light trucks, motorcycles, bicycles and carts.
5.   Soil type, indicating CBR, %PL and %LL.
6.   Estimated cost of construction, including separate estimates
for costs of earthworks, sub-base, base, surfacing, culverts
and bridges.
7.   Area of influence of the proposed road, and population in it.
8.   Size of existing and planned irrigated areas in the road's
area of influence.
9.   Type of existing and planned irrigation.
10.   For each type of irrigation:  average life and replacement
cost of civil works and equipment; cost and periodicity of
regular maintenance and partial reconstruction; and annual
running cost.
11.   Principal crops in the area of influence (present and future):
area devoted to each crop; average yields; and farmgate and
market prices.
12.   Present and future costs of agricultural inputs (other than
irrigation), for each crop: seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and
insurance.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
13.   Freight rates of motorized and non-motorized modes.
14.   General information of farmers' cooperatives in the area of
influence of the proposed road.
15.   Commercial banks with branches in the area of influence,
providing financing for motorized and non-motorized vehicles.
16.   Location of permanent market.
17.   Map of proposed road and its area of influence.
NOTE: Survey forms completed by REO for 252 roads are kept in the project
file.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page I
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Sample Economic Calculations
CASE I: NO ADDITIONAL IRRIGATION DURING PROJECT PERIOD.
Data used here are from road S/GAY/6K
Area of influence of road (AOI): 2,196 ha.
Present irrigation is 1089 has.(i.e 49.6% of AOI).
It is assumed that irrigation is equally used by all crops.
No expenditures for additional irrigation will take place.
Cost of road construction Rs 1,262,000; road maintenance is Rs 24,000 per
year; the salvage value of the road is Rs 310,000 at year 10.
1.   CROP AREAS (ha.)
Present     Planned      Increase /a
PADDY       1,517       1,828          311
MAIZE         229          290           61
WHEAT         995       1,245          250
Total      2,741        3,363          622
/a A sensitivity analysis is carried out
below to determine the likely reduction
of the rate of return if this increase
does not take place.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCERS' SURPLUS (Rs per ha)
A                   B                    C                    D
No Irrigation      With Irrigation      No Irrigation       With Irrigation
No Road            No Road               With Road          With Road
No Improved        No Improved          With Improved       With Improved
Practices          Practices             Practices          Practices
PADDY        985                1460                   1302               1777
MAIZE        109                 274                    219                384
WHEAT        436                 628                    564                756
These figures have been computed for the South Bihar Region where the Gaya Dis-
trict is located. The table also reflects the experience elsewhere in India,
which has shown that the expansion of irrigation facilities contributes by
itself to about 60% of the growth in agricultural production. See Maharashtra
Irrigation II Project, Volume II - Sectoral Background.
3.   MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE BENEFITS  (it will be later assummed that only 70% of
these benefits will materialize - Eastern
Foodgrain Review - over 7 years).
CAI = Crop Area Irrigated
CANI = Crop Area Not Irrigated
(Rs per year)
Increase in Benefits
W/0 Project                W Project              W vs. W/0 Project
PADDY CAI    1517 x .496 x 1460          1527 x .496 x 1777           238,521
CANI   1517 x .504 x 985          1517 x .504 x 1302           647,290
+ 311 x 1302
885,811
MAIZE CAI    229 x .496 x 274            229 x .496 x 384              12,494
CANI   119 x .504 x 109           229 x .504 x 219              26,055
+ 61 x 219                     38,549
WHEAT CAI    995 x .496 x 628            995 x .496 x 756              63,171
CANI   995 x .599 x 436           995 x .504 x 564             205,189
+ 250 x 564                    268,360
Total maximum attainable benefits   Rs 1,192,720 per year (70% thereof is
Rs 834,904 per year).



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
4.   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(Rs million)
Agricultural
Road              Road          Producers'        Net
Year     Construction       Maintenance        Surplus        Benefits
0           (1.261)                                           (1.261)
1                            (.024)            0.119           0.095
2                            (.024)            0.239           0.215
3                            (.024)            0.358           0.334
4                            (.024)            0.477           0.453
5                            (.024)            0.597           0.573
6                            (.024)            0.716           0.692
7                            (.024)            0.835           0.811
8                            (.024)            0.835           0.811
9                            (.024)            0.835           0.811
10           0.310            (.024)            0.835           1.121
ERR = 28.7%
5.   SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Assuming a 30% reduction in benefits, ERR = 20.4%
Assuming there is no increase whatsoever in cropped area, ERR = 14.6%
CASE II: ADDITIONAL IRRIGATION TAKES PLACE DURING PROJECT PERIOD
Data used are from road N/MOT/2K
Area of influence (AOI) of road is 931 ha.
CANAL     TUBEWELL      TOTAL
Present Irrigation        20 ha      120 ha        140 ha (15% of AOI)
Additional Irrigation    10 ha        60 ha         70 ha
Future Irrigation         30 ha      180 ha        210 ha (22.5% of AOI)
It is assumed that present and additional irrigation are equally used for all
crops.
Cost of additional irrigation
Canal: Construction is Rs 10,000/ha; Operation and Maintenance is Rs 100/ha-yr
Tubewell:  Construction is Rs 5,000/ha; Operation and Maintenance is Rs 750/ha-yr



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Therefore, the cost of additional irrigation in the AOI will be:
Construction: 10 x 10,000 + 60 x 5,000 = Rs 400,000
Op + Maint:     10 x 100 + 60 x 750 = Rs 46,000/yr.
Salvage value: 0.8 x 10 x 10,000 + 0.5 x 60 x 5,000 = Rs 230,000
Cost of road construction Rs 887,000
Cost of road maintenance Rs 18,000/yr.
Salvage value: Rs 218,000
1.   CROP AREAS (ha)
Present      Planned      Increase
PADDY            600          600            -
WHEAT            400          500           100
MAIZE             60            60           -
SUGARCANE        120          150            30
POTATO            80          120           40
Total          1,260        1,430           170
2.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCERS' SURPLUS (Rs per ha)
A                 B                  C                   D
No Irrigation   With Irrigation   No Irrigation   With Irrigation
No Road          No Road             With Road        With Road
No Improved      No Improved         With Improved   With Improved
Practices        Practices           Practices        Practices
PADDY          921                1,504              1,310              1,893
WHEAT          826                1,255              1,112              1,541
MAIZE          199                  341                294                436
SUGARCANE   1,570                 1,914             2,466               3,810
POTATO       6,866               10,403             9,224              12,761



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
3.   MAXIMUM ATTAINABLE BENEFITS
(It will be later assumed that only 70% of these benefits materalize
over 7 years - Eastern India Foodgrain Review).
CAI  = Crop area irrigated
CANI = Crop area not irrigated
(Rs per year)
Increase in Benefits
W/O Project                     W Project               W vs. WIO Project
PADDY CAI    600 x 0.15 x 1504            600 x 0.225 x 1893               120,195
CANI   600 x 0.85 x 921            600 x 0.775 x 1310               139,440
Rs 259,635
WHEAT CAI    400 x 0.15 x 1255            500 x 0.225 x 1541                98,063
CANI   400 x 0.85 x 826            500 x 0.775 x 1112               150,060
Rs 248,123
MAIZE CAI    60 x 0.15 x 341              60 x 0.225 x 436                   2,817
CANI   60 x 0.85 x 199             60 x 0.775 x 294                    3,522
Rs   6,339
SUGARCANE
CAI    120 x 0.15 x 2,914          150 x 0.225 x 3810                76,135
CANI   120 x 0.85 x 1,570          150 x 0.775 x 2466                126,533
Rs 202,668
POTATO CAI   80 x 0.15 x 10,403           120 x 0.225 x 12,761             219,711
CANI  80 x 0.85 x 6,866           120 x 0.775 x 9,224              390,944
Rs 610,655
Total Maximum Annual Attainable Benefits = Rs 1,327,420/yr
(70% thereof is Rs 929,194/yr)



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Page  6
4.   ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(Rs million)
Capital                Operation and                         Net
Expenditures               Maintenance           Benefits    Benefits
Additional                Additional
Year      Road      Irrigation       Road     Irrigation
0       (.887)        (.400)                                                 (1.287)
1                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.133         .069
2                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.265         .201
3                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.398         .334
4                                  (.018)      (.046)           0.531         .467
5                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.664         .600
6                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.796         .732
7                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.929         .865
8                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.929         .865
9                                 (.018)      (.046)            0.929         .865
10         .218         .230        (.018)     (.046)            0.929        1.313
ERR   28.8%
5.   SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
With a 30% reduction in benefits ERR = 20.0%.



- 57 -
ANNE 5
Page I
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
I.   BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON BIHAR AND INDIA
Draft Five-Year Plan 1978-83, Planning Department, Government
of Bihar, 1978.
Bihar Statistical Hand Book 1976, Directorate of Statistics
and Evaluation, Bihar, 1976.
Bihar Through Figures 1977, Directorate of Statistics and
Evaluation, Bihar, November 1977.
The Bihar Public Works Department Code, Government of Bihar,
Patna, 1960.
Government of Bihar Schedule of Rates (Patna Division), January
1980.
Specifications and Contract Notes for Roads and Bridges, Public
Works Department, Ranchi, 1968.
Rural Engineering Organization Tender Documents.
Specifications for Road and Bridge Work, Ministry of Shipping
and Transport (Roads Wing), published by Indian Roads
Congress, New Delhi, 1978.
Directory of Engineering Industries, Rajeev Publications, New
Delhi, 1979.
II.   AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN BIHAR
Mabbett, T. H. (consultant to IDA), memorandum INDIA: Pro-
posed Bihar Rural Roads Project: Agricultural Assessment:
Report, December 7, 1979.
India Eastern States Foodgrain Review - Bihar, World Bank
Report, 1977.
Instructions for Integrated Rural Development, Government
of Bihar, August 1978.



-58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
A Hand Book on Integrated Rural Development Programme 1978-79,
Rural Development Department, Government of Bihar, 1978.
Guidelines for Action Programme for Ground Water Exploitation
1979-80, Government of Bihar, September 1979.
III.   RURAL ROADS
Manual on Route Location, Design, Construction and Maintenance
of Rural Roads, Indian Roads Congress Special Publication
No. 20, New Delhi, 1979.
Employment in Road Transport and Road Construction, National
Council of Applied Economic Research, New Delhi, 1974.
Design of Roads for Bullock Cart Transport, Central Road
Research Institute, Road Research Paper No. 38, New
Delhi, 1959.
IV.   ROAD TRANSPORT
Howe, John (consultant to IDA), Report, Bihar Rural Roads:
Preparation of a Possible Road Transport Component,
ITDG, December 1979.
Sikka, R. P. (Chief Engineer, Ministry of Shipping and
Transport, Government of India), Improvement of the
Carrying Capacity and Operational Efficiency of Rural
Road Transport, Draft Report for ESCAP, mimeo.
Regional Profile on Roads and Road Transport 1975-76,
Transport Research Division, Ministry of Shipping and
Transport, Government of India, 1979.
Origin Destination Survey and Census of Road Traffic in Bihar,
conducted by Advance Planning Wing of Public Works Depart-
ment of Bihar, 1976.
Road Transport Industry - A Review, National Council of
Applied Economic Research, New Delhi, 1979.
Scheme for Financing Pneumatic Tire Bullock Carts in Saran,
Siwan and Gopalganj Districts, prepared by Bihar State
Land Development Bank, 1979.
Scheme for Financing Pneumatic Tire Bullock Carts in East
and West Champaran Districts, prepared by Bihar State
Land Development Bank, 1979.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Scheme for Financing Tire Bullock Carts through Agricultural
Development Bank, Jajipur, to the farmers of adopted
villages falling under the Command Area of B-nar State
Sugar Corporation Unit, Goraul; prepared by the State
Bank of India, Bihar branch, 1979.
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation, Guidelines
for Provision of Refinance for Work Animals and Animal
Driven Carts, memorandum dated 24 May 1978.
V.   PROJECT
Rural Road Development Project for World Bank Assistance,
prepared by the Rural Engineering Organization (Advance
Planning Wing), Government of Bihar, May 1978).
Rural Road Development Project for World Bank Assistance,
Priority List of Minimum Needs Program Roads (Cost/
Benefit Ratio), prepared by the Rural Engineering
Organization (Advance Planning Wing), Government of
Bihar, July 1979.
Rural Road Development Project for World Bank Assistance,
Interim Report, prepared by the Rural Engineering
Orgnization (Advance Planning Wing), Government of
Bihar, November 1979.
Schedule of all roads originally presented by REO to IDA.
Three volumes for North Bihar, South Bihar, and Chotanagpur/
Santhal Pargana.
Fully answered survey forms for all rural roads subjected
to detailed economic evaluation.
Sample Economic Calculations
VI.   MAPS
Maps of Bihar, scale 1:250,000 indicating location of all roads
included in project.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
GOB's Rural Roads Maintenance Program
1.        The emphasis of GOB's rural roads program over recent years has been
on construction rather than on maintenance. This is reflected in the low level
of total expenditures for rural road maintenance. Indeed, while it is esti-
mated that adequate maintenance would require annual expenditures of about
Rs 7,000 per km, the actual annual expenditures were about Rs 700 per km until
1978/79. Only in 1979/80 was the maintenance allocation increased to an
average Rs 2,250 per km, which, although significantly larger than the previous
average, is still only about one-third the required level.
2.        GOB is aware of the importance of properly maintaining rural roads
to avoid their early deterioration. As a result, GOB plans to increase its
rural maintenance effort over the period of project implementation through
provision of funds, equipment and staff. The elements of this maintenance
program (paras 3 to 5) were agreed upon during negotiations, and any signi-
ficant departure from this agreed program will be discussed between GOB and
IDA during project implementation.
3.        GOB will gradually increase its allocation of funds to REO for the
purpose of rural road maintenance, so that, by June 30, 1986, the entire rural
road network under REO responsibility would be subject to correct routine and
periodic maintenance. The following table indicates the projected fund allo-
cation and expenditure pattern:
Kms of Rural
Road under REO        Maintenance              Required Total
Year         Responsibility    Expenditure per Km    Maintenance Expenditure
(1980 Rs)             (1980 Rs million)
1979/80           6,700                2,250                15  (already provided)
1980/81           7,000                3,600                25  (  "         "    )
1981/82           7,250                4,500                33
1982/83           7,550                5,400                41
1983/84           7,900                6,200                49
1984/85           8,200                7,000                58
Funds allocated as indicated above would be used by REO to carry out its rural
road maintenance program, whether by force account or by maintenance contracts.
4.        About Rs 38 million worth of equipment will be provided under the
proposed project (see Table 7). This equipment is expected to enable REO to
carry out the bulk of the projected increase in their maintenance operations



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(through 1984/85). Equipment owned by REO for maintenance purposes would be
used eithe- oa force account or would be rented to contractors under main-
tenance contract arrangements. GOB plans to make wider use of contractors
than in the past for maintenance purposes so that REO staff would concentrate
on supervision and on maintenance works that cannot be adequately performed
by contractors. Specific amounts of additional equipment required by REO
to meet their maintenance needs were agreed at negotiations.
5.        REO engineering staff would have to increase over the period 1980/81
through 1984/85. It is desirable that REO engineering staff become familiar
with the use of equipment and improved standards of quality control for road
maintenance as well as construction; to this end, REO will arrange suitable
training over the period 1980/81 through 1984/85 with CRRI, Delhi. Details
are provided in Table 11.



INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF BIHAR PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
Principal Secretary, Public Works
Engineer in Chief and Special Secretary
Chief Engineer             Chief Engineer              Chief Engineer              Chief Engineer              Chief Engineer              Chief Engineer              Chief Engineer              Chief Engineer
(Commucnications)          MConmni-ntions)             (Communications)                Sumilding')                  (C.D.P.I)      I             APL)                 (National IHighways)           (Ganga Bridge)                Monitoring
Patna                    Darbhanga                     Ranchi                      Patna                       Patnm                       Patna                       Patna                       Patna                         ;
4 Soperiitending            5 S.perintending           6 Superintending            4 Superintendimg            5 Superintending            6 Saperintending            7 Superintending            2 Superintending             Superintending
Engineers                   Engineers                  Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                  Engineer ic
19 Executie                i  Ececutive                23 Executive                18 Executice                20 Ex-cuti-e                31 Execative                25 Execative                5 Executive                  2 Execatine
Engineers                  Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                    ngineers
67 Asssis6t1t               i Ass istann               go Assistant                58 Assistant     |         113 Assistant               126 Assistant               76 Assistant                16 Assistant                13 Assistant
|  Engineers   l   l       Engineers                  Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers                   Engineers
Scarce: PWD Aecr.ds
Total: 620 Engineers
March 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                                        World Bank   21 599



INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE RURAL ENGINEERING ORGANIZATION
|Principal Secretary, Rural Development|
Average  Contract
Monthly  Responsibility for
T                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Salary    Award of Contracts
(Rs.)    and Payments
Chief Engineer                                            Unlimited Award
Chief Engineer (Works)                                   l~~~~~~~~Advance Planning and World Bank ProjectI)
Superintending Enginee        9 Superintending Engineers       Superintending Engineer              4 Superin=ending Engineers      3 Superintending Engineers             2500      Unlimited Award
3 Executive Engineers         35 Executive            xecutive                                                                                                                      Awards up to Rs
i/c Design and Materials       Engineers i/c       Engineers i/c  |   1 Executive                    16 Executive Engineers         11 Executive  |          1             1500    50,000 maximum; checks                                  o
i/cDesgn nd  ateial                                                                             i/cner ic 1  xcuieAdvance Planning in  EngineersrEconomtet
Laboratories                Districts        Zila Parishad       Engineer                                                        E0%  of certificates
Roads                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Districts                                                     and makes payments
1                          1                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Awards up to Rs
g A st                                2       t                        200 Assistant Engineers (Advance Planning)    l                      1000    5,000 maximum; checks
________________________ ______________________  J50%                of  certificates
No power of award;
600    measures work and
compiles certificates
of payment
Total - 1005 Engineers
1 Economist
Source: REO Records
March 1980                                                                                                                                                                                   World Bank - 21600



- 64 -
Flgure 1
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
RURAL ROAD DESIGN STANDARDS
Typical Cross Section
7.5 m roadway
3.75 m carriageway-...4
side slope of
embankment 2:1
2
Orginal Ground Level
Road Land Width (Right of Way) 15 to 25 m                                        at    3 to 5 m
Carriageway Detail
15cm
;-1 ~       3.75 m                      *
I 21 5%  ca  rnber         2 cm premix over tack coat with surface seal coat
waterbound stone base
3% co                              _subbase
/    - ~      ~     ~~~ ~compacted earth fill
Design speed, minimum radii, superelevation and pavement thicknesses in accordance with
I.R.C. "Manual on Route Location, Design, Construction and Maintenance of Rural Roads", 1979 edition
Source: REO designs
March 1980                                                                                                             World Bank - 21601



_  IBRD  14878R
'.r 4av  Arrrax mole tmeof Contro  84 00'                                                  86 00                                                                                             COCTOBER i980
INDIA
'PAtISTAN,                         CHINA                                                                                                                                                BIHAR   RURAL  ROADS
r   fPfDnelhl ^ \,     rt  y-r '1                                       KILOMETERS                                                                                   Project Roads  - North  Bihar
1                               !.t _ J,)     z                       <     .        _MILES 
Uv ~~~~ 9  s s-   p   /                _ p >                      _                 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o     30)                    60
Road Projects                 X              Airports
S    fr      I N D I A            <   <   \0>_BLOMA                      <    1      -             f        X           Ro'                                                 -(+    Nctiona  Hlighways                        33       Major Airport
/                  a                              ~                              |          so}   (                                                          Main Roads                           0       Distr ct Headquarters
All -Weather Roads                     -     District Boundaries
-  Unpaved Roads                     -           State Bourdar es
/!,tohrrtro  \ 9\/ clot' of  -tooooo{                                                                                                                              -t---       Railroads                                     International Boundaries
So sB.tt,h                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rivers
-, (.                                          |        , khot  \ ?   t  et
Th-tmap ha-hlOretromdh,the
dhe  repo-t t( e h tttf I he                                                                                                  --;
t  too, ondtr-l-o  edad rho h\ ;,
CSSa;F~~~~Q >~, f MI
dsouh gioor _mt 00 rho hae2 oi00Sf 2h e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
1odymeot 0 ''- i tOe t , Bhogalr Otatot :                                                     i f                                                                                                          (h
Sa ta agva                                R   O   H PR AM,DISRCAES H        AEBN                                                                                                                                                                   .
roomoot                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch.r
~~  no   ~~~A    L
North  Bihor                                                                      Ar. t
South Bihiar
I B RO  150-88,O   u
'-ICh-otonagpOr
&  'Q                         ~~~~~~~IF NAMES OF OISPTEI5 AND THEIR HEhUOOARTEtS
Santhial Pargnano                               ARE NOT THE SAME, DiSTRIOT NAMES HAthE BEEN
IBRD 15089                                   ADDED N PARENTHESISt
/8400'                                                                                       86 00'                                                                                          t  00



I



______________________                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15088R
PAKI TAN IC HI N AUTA                                                     PRDSBI                                                                                                               R       R R           L ROS
-P~~~~~~~~~~~A
BLRMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Apt,ba.a,ot '   )  Stay hf Sea,gnf    /  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sZ
Than map h.s b-e ,,p-.asd b, tOo
the-etar to-h,ohatS-t-hed,
t- e,,oatotoead thefi
hb-nhao- h-sooha 55hth
do -a oapl, o- the pat of the
Wothd Rent eoh, alffilaate, -o
,adgoo-iot tw le~ .e.a..tt .toa
CO              ~ ~AL
Ncekth`-aihor IBRD 1,4878 -
na~~ynt5~~~~N 77o  ~~~  .~~                     Road  Projects                          Airports
2  00a0O  *-~~~~s            -(~-  Notional Highway                            Major Airport
- -  Main Road                        0       District Headquarters
-/    South Bihar                                       -Al-Weather Roac)7s                      District Boundaries
- --   C                           ~~~~~~~~Unpoved Roods-               -   Stolte Boundories0                                                     50                   100                               -
a-.                               -----a---- ~~~~~~~Railroads                         nternotionol Boundaries               IOMESt
MILES
--   --                                                          ~~~~~~~~~-.----.- ~~~~~~~~Rivers                           0l                 30                   60                                                    .5
aChotanagp2a1,,
&a ISonthal Pargona>-,                          IF NAMES OF DISTRICTS hND THEIR HAOhSIUARTERS
-    N                               hitS~~~~~~~~~~R NOT THE SAME, DISTRICT NAMES HAVS BEEN
a- ,                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~ASSES IN PARENTHESIS.
IBRED 15089 
N                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~86-00



I



IBRD 15089R
O '>ri   < ,,, _  L;hul Conlool  8400'  /                                                   B0                                                                           OCTOBER 1980
v/V    - o                                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
PAK SIANTAN                      CHIINA A2                                                                                                                                                  BIHAR   RURAL  ROADS
Project Roads - Chotanagpur &  Santhal Pargana
A tfl    I N D I A                       I IBURMA                                              'LOMETERS
* <: 0; t )\ / 0 <g ; @ 9 1 \ ^t < l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hl~ILES 3u6
I                              / ::        s -2400 '   t              C   solton/goni/2 )0,                                                                                                                                                      2400'-
(10                                                                                                          I.a.         Hvo or41 gh,
w7ldaksth,ecoteyf 9   h ;/  , - =. Cl/l1  R7c- p,.p-d,, < ho
theb ctorveme  oft~ the Aedr             tt1v g                                                                 -
Tth portoto hech t  bevrerdtthed                                                         (           .~ a                                                                                                                                            00__t.
WtddBek oteff-1--looey for                                  M  ADHVYA                                ~--
the reor toh,ofl,t ,smhtcbd
bt od--e   ts- eo  o th7  theP                             P R A  D  E S  H                  I0' -
The denesorrvt,o otner thsmep                                                                                      19M/                                                         l 
do oot ot 09 pl on thte paRt of the._ -                                                                                                                                         
Wrd. --tKy kan fhs P, ffillt,. ax                                                                                   .u_           '                                     ~'        L\Z
Wtdd Bvkettd,toethhete-- -y
udgrtmet-otheleelta t-t- of
emy terotort or anty rodrt ettent                                                                       .                                                              39     C      ~       _w
tr acrepteoe of -h bo-tdi,ET
'   {S   \  91,  ,,L,,,f ,/d       .-      I    { \\_            ~~~                                     E S 
4~'  < /'2   _.,.tZJ, . Rood  Projects
t   P                              '      National Highways
L             ~~~~~~A L
~~~~~~ ~~~~~Main  Roacs
-< All-Weather Roads
t 1<BRD    '5B -t-t-t   Railrodsd.;19*t 2f-
Q        BR   148\78/
South  Bi~~~~~~Wr             o+ ~    Airports                                                                   _To dr
IBRD 15088  ~ ~~~~(a   Maior Airport                                                                                                                                                                                        to
.-          / 9     0 District Headquarters
District Boundaries                                                                    ,J                         \  
00 ,t--Chto a,our?< '^P            -- State  Boundaries                                  OR1  S S  A                        t       J                               7 ) 
I -12    Chotateagptitt-                      ~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries220'
<~ &     \        <                l           Rivers
."Santhol Pargano-                             IF NAMES OF DISTRICTS AND THEIt HEADQUARTERS
0   .t    <   A  \ t, T                         ARE NOT THE SAME DISTRICT NAMES HAVE BEEN
I   >                  <'\ < ............. I ADSED IN PARENTHESIS.
f8600'



