Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY               FILE COPY
Repot No. P-2885-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
October 22, 1980
[  This doume  bh  a rericed disibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomane of
teir ouAcia duis. Its ctents may not oterwise be discoeid witouw Wodd Dbnk autboaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of October 14, 1980)
Rs 1         =    Paise 100
US$1               Rs 7.72
Rs 1          =    US$0.129560
Rs 1 million =    US$129,560
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed
against a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now
floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00
to Rs 8.4 which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC   -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
GOB    -   Government of Bihar
GOI    -   Government of India
PWD    -   Public Works Department of Bihar
REO    -   Rural Engineering Organization of Bihar
TEC    -   Technical Examiner's Cell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:         The State of Bihar (GOB).
Amount:              SDR 26.7 million
(US$35 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    From GOI to GOB:  As part of Central assistance for
State development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Project
Description:   The project would provide for the construction, improve-
ment or strengthening of about 700 km of rural roads in
Bihar, and the improvement of routine and periodic road
maintenance, which would permit all-weather transport
between farms and markets and facilitate rural develop-
ment. Potential risks include the early deterioration of
project roads as a result of flooding and inadequate
maintenance, and a delay in the realization of agricul-
tural benefits. These risks would be minimized by the
implementation of improved construction and maintenance
standards and by ensuring that road construction and
improvement works are carried out only where complementary
investments take place.
Estimated                                                (US$ Millions)
Costs:                                          Local      Foreign   Total
Civil Works and Materials    27.7         3.9      31.6
Vehicles and Equipment         3.2        0.6        3.8
Incremental Staff              1.0         -         1.0
Incremental Operating Costs   0.7         0.2       0.9
Sub-total                32.6        4.7      37.3
Price Contingencies           10.6        1.5       12.1
Physical Contingencies         3.1        0.4        3.5
Total Project Cost       46.3        6.6      52.9
Taxes and Duties               2.7         -         2.7
Project Cost Net
of Taxes and Duties        43.6        6.6      50.2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:
IDA                          28.4            6.6     35.0
GOI/GOB                      17.9             -       17.9
Total                   46.3           6.6      52.9
Estimated
Disbursements: /a                                      (US$ Millions)
FY81    FY82    FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual                   0.7      7.6      9.8     9.8    7.1
Cumulative               0.7      8.3    18.1    27.9   35.0
Rate of Return:       21%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2986-IN, dated October 10, 1980.
/a According to IDA's fiscal year.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 26.7 million (US$35 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to construct, improve or
strengthen about 700 km of all-weather roads between farms and markets in
Bihar. The proceeds of this credit would be channelled to the Government
of Bihar in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and
arrangements for the financing of State development projects. GOI would
bear the exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 mil-
lion (in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in 1970/71
prices) has declined from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79. The share
of industry has increased over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor force,
nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has led to
higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing countries.
The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate of
GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agriculture --
2.5% per annum over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only
because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign
exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added has
grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this
growth has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required
if the overall growth of the economy is to be accelerated. Slow growth has
persisted despite a quite creditable domestic saving and investment performance.
Gross domestic saving more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Kandi Watershed and Area Development
Project (Report No. P-2384-IN), dated June 30, 1980.



- 2 -
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never financed
a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during
the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to much
lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and
in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import subsitution. As a result, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets, par-
ticularly in the near-by Middle East, contributed to this process, adjustments
in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports played a
major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GNP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result
of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input con-
straints in other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-
term picture. Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to
shortfalls in the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement,
as well as constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and
transportation. As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price
stability that characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt
end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79. During the Spring and Summer of
1979 the price index rose sharply, so that by September it stood at 18.4%
above that of the previous September.  Foodgrain prices rose over the Summer
and Fall of 1979 but in most markets still prevailed close to the Government's
ration prices. Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate sup-
plies of grain at stable prices through the public distribution system. The
substantial stocks of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale
drought relief employment program for low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and
have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each
year, fell about 8-9% in 1979/80. Foodgrain production is estimated to have
declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-120 million tons in 1979/80.



- 3 -
Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after two succes-
sive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved--still the
fourth highest in Indian history--provides a measure of the contribution that
expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Indian agriculture.
Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to counteract drought
conditions was not adequately tested because of the diesel shortages which
inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid growth in the use
of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued. Additions to the
area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million hectares during the
five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5 million additional hectares a
year during the most recent three-year period. Fertilizer consumption in
1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level almost 80% higher than
in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP
and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which has barely
grown since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in the
quantum of manufactured non-traditional exports which had contributed much to
the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong
domestic, and slack international demand, exacerbated until recently by
apparent lessened interest in export promotion, have been the major casual
factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition.  As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports--which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments--have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of exports now exceed
50%.



-4-
Development Prospects
10.        The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.        The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the process
of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period 1981-86 is
being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83. At this stage
it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy; however, it is
unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power will be lessened.
Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the world economy during
1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which will need the attention
of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context of development strategy
that the new Government may adopt. Among these issues are the following:
(a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in production
of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in
agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for imported
petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance of payments in
the near future.
12.        The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to existing
demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally low growth
in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services, steel and
cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted from large
investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these input bottle-
necks are alleviated.  In the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic produc-
tion appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative advantage, and
the aim of policy is self-sufficiency. All these are tradeable commodities.
Although in 1979/80 they were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate
the shortages, increased short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to
alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using industries. In the case of
sectors in which there is no option to import the final product--power and
transportation--the planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial.
Although there is scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these
sectors, major investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as
new capacity are needed in order to provide adequate and stable growth in the
medium term. The presence of infrastructural constraints and shortages of
basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the expansion of industrial output
leads to competing claims on scarce resources which must be efficiently
allocated among different industries.



13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 50% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the development of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential. However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past planning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program. The interdependencies in
the economy currently make petroleum demand a residual which is contingent
on the operation of many other sectors and which has significant implications
for the balance of payments.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, devel-
opment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India should end the 1979/80 rabi season
with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but also
reflects the trends of the last decade which point to a consistent improvement
in foodgrain availability in the economy. In view of the acceleration in the
use of agricultural inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate,
the long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable.
Persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis on
foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly falling
real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-
income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and prices, and
diversification to the production of other higher value crops. This prospect
will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic break
with past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects. Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp decline in the reserve level is expected in 1980/81. At best, India's
reserves may provide a cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional
on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in
oil price rises.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable



-6 -
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year Plan. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over
the mid 1980 level of 663 million.  Family planning has played an important
role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of
a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a success-
ful official family planning program. The family planning performance data
for 1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a come back
from the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods
during 1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for
all contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on non-terminal methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to marginal holdings of physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illiterate,
the malnourished and those having otherwise poor health status. Improvements
in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the over-
all growth of the economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture
and non-farm rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment oppor-
tunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from
market forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate gov-
ernment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite limited
in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small farmers and
rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of those services
which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living standards.
Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been
an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been
slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural
health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies. Recent
innovations, including the community health volunteer program and the national



- 7 -
adult literacy campaign, are encouraging evidence that well-targetted, rela-
tively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 59 loans and 129 development
credits to India totalling US$2,654 million and US$8,402 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,092 million had
been repaid, and US$3,925 million was still undisbursed as of August 31,
1980. Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980, totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement
of disbursements as of August 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$19.1 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$38.4 million, US$29.9 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations
and in providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing,
seed development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, and urban investments have also received Bank
Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on those subsectors which have



- 8 -
recently emerged as key constraints on India's overall growth, primarily power
and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid 1970s. However,
the need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even greater deter-
ioration in balance of payments prospects during the 1980s by augmenting
domestic resources and stimulating investment, remains. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of
India's external capital requirements should be provided on concessionary
terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been,
and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA
funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation
to India's needs for external support, and India should be regarded as credit-
worthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service
to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below
20% through 1995/96. As of August 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held
by the Bank totalled US$1,343 million, of which US$586 million remained to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$757 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND TRANSPORT IN BIHAR
General
26.         The State of Bihar is located in the northeastern part of India,
an area which includes the greatest concentration of rural poverty in the
world and which has been largely by-passed by earlier development efforts.
With a population of 67 million, it is the second most populous State in the



- 9 -
country. Its population density of about 380 inhabitants per square kilometer
is almost twice the national average, while the average annual per capita
income is approximately 70% that of India as a whole. Almost 90% of the
State's population is rural and dependent upon agriculture and more than 75%
of the State's rural population subsists below the absolute poverty line of
US$73 per capita.
27.       Bihar covers an area of 174,000 square kilometers and is comprised
of three distinct geographical regions: (i) the northern plains between the
Ganges River and the Nepal border; (ii) the central plains along the southern
banks of the Ganges; and (iii) the Chotanagpur/Santhal Pargana plateau cover-
ing most of the southern half of the State. Administratively, the State is
divided into 31 Districts and 587 Development Blocks. Each Development Block
has an average population of 100,000 distributed among approximately 100
villages.
Agriculture
28.       The State has a considerable untapped agricultural potential as a
result of fertile alluvial soils underlain by massive groundwater resources.
Average rainfall is about 1,200 mm per annum, but varies as much as 500 mm
either way. Of the total land area of 17.4 million hectares, approximately
8.7 million ha are now cultivated; approximately 11.3 million ha are planted
annually, however, giving a cropping intensity of 130%. Only 23% of the
cultivated area is irrigated. Over the past decade there has been virtually
no change in the amount of land under cultivation or in crop production
figures. Major expansion of production must come from yield increases, as
a result of improved farming practices, including the use of high-yielding
varieties, improved fertilizer application and a more intensive use of irri-
gation. Population pressures have reduced the average size of farm holdings
to about 1.5 ha per family. This unfavorable land/man ratio is further
accentuated by skewed land distribution and fragmented landholdings. Land
tenure arrangements are complex, with tenancy and sharecropping prevalent.
An estimated 6.8 million rural workers are landless.
29.       Rice, maize and wheat, the three principal grain crops in Bihar, are
grown on approximately 90% of the cultivated land. Sugar cane and potatoes,
grown on only about 3% of the cultivated area, are becoming important cash
crops and account for 35% of the tonnage produced. The exportable surplus
of grain crops is about 35% of production, based on average production and
consumption figures. Apart from jute and potatoes, most of the agricultural
produce is sold within a few kilometers of the fields at a local market
("hat") or, in the case of larger farms, at a marketing center ("mandi"),
usually located within 12 km. The mandi also serves as the distribution
center for fertilizers, pesticides and seeds. The policy of the Bihar State
Agricultural Marketing Board is to expand the number of regulated mandis to
give smaller farmers easier direct access, a program which this project
complements.
Transportation
30.       Transportation within Bihar is limited, and dominated by the
presence of several large rivers. The Ganges, with only one rail bridge
crossing, effectively divides the State into two parts. Despite some 1,700



- 10 -
miles of navigable rivers, water transport remains poorly developed. Commer-
cial aircraft serve only two cities in the State, Patna, the capital, and
Ranchi. The main broad-gauge electrified trunk railway between New Delhi
and Calcutta runs across the Chotanagpur plateau, while Patna is served by the
non-electrified main line. Roads provide the principal mode of transport in
Bihar, but seasonal flooding and the prevalence of soft soils severely limit
movement during the monsoon except on surfaced roads.
31.       Bihar's highway network is made up of national, State and local
roads with a total length of about 80,000 km, of which some 26,000 km (32%)
are paved to all-weather standards, compared to 39% in India as a whole. Most
major roads have evolved from tracks, through brick-paved roads, into their
present bituminous surfaced form. Alignment is frequently unsuitable for
present traffic flows, encroachment by roadside development is common and
pavement thickness is insufficient, leading to uneven surfaces, potholes and
areas of failure. Soils are often poorly graded and road-making materials
lacking. These factors, coupled with annual flooding over large areas, make
road building and maintenance expensive and difficult.
32.       GOI designs and finances highways in Bihar, but the State Public
Works Department (PWD) normally acts as executing agency.  PWD designs,
constructs, and maintains state highways, generally are using State funds.
Rural roads, considered an essential ingredient in providing access to rural
areas and furthering their agricultural development, are the responsibility of
the Rural Engineering Organization (REO), established in 1970 as a part of the
Rural Development Department, which handles rural transportation as part of
overall rural development.
33.       Head loads and bicycles are generally used to transport agricul-
tural products and inputs between the fields and the hat; bullock carts or
tractor-trailers, to the mandi or over other short distances. Transport for
distances over 15 km is almost entirely by truck or tractor-trailer combina-
tion. The number of carts in Bihar, estimated at 780,000 in 1972, is about 30
times the number of trucks in the State. In recent years there has been an
increase, estimated at 8% per year, in the use of rubber-tired carts whose
carrying capacity is two or three times greater than that of the traditional
wooden-wheeled variety. Horse- and pony-drawn carts and cycle-rickshaws are
also used for transport, mostly in and close to towns, and pack animals are
used in a few areas for the movement of goods from farms to the roadside. In
many rural areas, bicycles are a means of personal transport for many of the
working population. Little data are available from which to forecast the
future number of non-motorized vehicles, but given the high cost of fuel and
the fact that the cost of even the smallest truck is quite out of reach for
the average farmer, it seems that increasing reliance on non-motorized forms
of transport is likely for farm-to-market, short-distance transport. There is
considerable intra- and inter-district trade in agricultural commodities, but
dependence on middle men for transport denies the small farmer a fair share of
this trade.
34.       The Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), as
part of its regular program, provides for the refinancing of loans extended by
local banks to farmers wishing to acquire rubber-tired bullock carts. As
competition in the supply of farm-to-market transport increases, transport



- 11 -
prices should drop with part of the reduction being passed on to the farmers
in the form of higher farmgate prices for their agricultural products.
Bank Group Lending in Bihar
35.       Bank Group assistance in Bihar has concentrated on the agricultural
sector through a variety of complementary projects all designed to improve
the living standards of the rural poor by raising agricultural production and
promoting rural development. The Bihar Agricultural Markets Project (Cr. 294-
IN, 1972, US$14 million) provided funds to develop agricultural wholesale
market facilities in 50 selected towns in Bihar. The Bihar Agricultural
Credit Project (Cr. 440-IN, 1973, US$32 million) provided long and medium-term
credit, primarily for minor irrigation, to farmers in Bihar through the ARDC.
Originally designed to benefit approximately 50,000 borrowers in a limited
area of the State, the project was expanded to cover 84,000 beneficiaries
throughout Bihar. Both projects have been fully disbursed and largely met
appraisal objectives. The Agricultural Universities Project (Cr. 342-IN,
1972, US$12 million) provides support to develop two State agricultural
universities, including the Rajendra Agricultural University (RAU) in Bihar,
to improve the quality of their teaching and extension functions and to foster
basic and applied agricultural research. In spite of management problems and
slow procurement, the project has made possible excellent academic work.
Under two Rural Electrification Projects (Cr. 572-IN, 1975, US$57 million and
Cr 911-IN, 1979, US$175 million) and a Power Transmission Project (Cr. 604-IN,
1976, US$150 million), Bihar is eligible to receive funds to strengthen its
power distribution system and to implement electrification schemes designed to
accelerate the installation of irrigation pumps and tubewells in rural areas.
The Bank Group is also currently assisting Bihar in reorganizing and strengthen-
ing its agriculture extension system through the Bihar Agricultural Extension
and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN, 1978, US$8 million). Although progress is
being made in areas where regular extension visits have been instituted,
vacancies in key posts have severely hampered project implementation. Bihar
is one of five States participating in the Inland Fisheries Project (Cr.
963-IN, 1980, US$20 million), designed to increase carp production through
construction of hatcheries and improvements to fish ponds. Since the project
became effective only in May 1980, it is still too early to assess its impact
but initial implementation tasks, especially the establishment of State Fish
Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring units,
are progressing satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Formulation
36.       The project was prepared by the Government of Bihar (GOB) with
the assistance of Bank Group staff. It was appraised in March 1980. The
Appraisal Report (No. 2986-IN, dated October 10, 1980) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington
in September/October, 1980. The negotiating delegation for India and
Bihar was coordinated by B. S. Lamba, Deputy Secretary, Department of
Economic Affairs, GOI.



- 12 -
37.       GOB originally proposed a project to construct or improve about
12,700 km of rural roads at an estimated cost of US$340 million. Subsequent
discussions with GOI and GOB led to the conclusion, however, that such a
project was far too ambitious given the limited investment resources avail-
able to Bihar and the competing claims for them. IDA agreed to assist with
a project of approximately US$50 million total cost, designed to include the
priority items of the larger program. The Advance Planning Wing of REO was
entrusted with large segments of project preparation in an effort to improve
its planning and design capabilities.
Objectives
38.       The main project objective is to provide all-weather roads between
farms and markets, so that the benefits of complementary investments in
irrigation, fertilizer, agricultural extension services and rural markets
may be realized. Ancillary objectives are overall strengthening of the REO
and improvements in road construction, design and maintenance standards.
Description
39.       The project consists of:  (i) the construction, improvement or
strengthening of about 700 km of rural roads; (ii) the improvement of routine
and periodic maintenance of rural roads; and (iii) the procurement of equip-
ment for road construction and maintenance. The 700 km of road to be con-
structed, improved or strengthened are being selected on the basis of their
likely impact on agricultural production.
40.       Construction work will consist of earthwork, drainage, bridging,
where necessary, and provision of sub-base, base and surfacing; improvement
will usually involve the provision of sub-base, base and surface to existing
unsurfaced roads, with improvements to drainage and alignment, where required;
strengthening will consist of applying an asphaltic overlay to existing sur-
faced roads and sometimes the addition of extra base. Detailed survey and
design work is being done by REO, and about 50% of the design work has been
completed. About 560 km would be new road construction at an average cost
of Rs 360,000 (US$43,000) per km, including bridges and culverts. The cost
per km reflects the poor soils over which roads are to be built, the haulage
suitable materials from remote locations, and the need to design the roads
so as to minimize flood damage. Approximately 140 km would be road improve-
ment or strengthening at an average cost of Rs 300,000 (US$35,800) per km.
GOB will carry out construction, improvement or strengthening of roads under
the project in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association (Section
2.07 of the Project Agreement).
41.       As part of the project, GOB will increase its maintenance program
so that by June 30, 1986, the entire rural road network administered by REO
will be under proper maintenance (Section 3.02 of Project Agreement).
42.       To preserve labor-intensity in rural road works, the equipment for
road construction and maintenance to be provided under the credit will be kept
to the minimum required to obtain acceptable work standards, or to economize
in the use of expensive materials. The main equipment items will be rollers



- 13 -
for compaction, asphalt mixers and bitumen kettles. Light vehicles to be used
by REO test laboratories and for supervision of construction and maintenance
operations will also be supplied under the credit, as will laboratory equip-
ment to improve REO's overall quality control function.
Implementation
43.         Project implementation will be the responsibility of REO, whose
staff will be supplemented and trained to meet the resulting larger demands
placed on them. Planning, supervision, monitoring and quality control
functions will be vested in a project cell which GOB will establish by
March 31, 1981 (Section 3.03 of Project Agreement).
44.       REO technical staff consist of two Chief Engineers (Works and
Advance Planning), 18 superintending engineers, 99 executive engineers, and
about 300 assistant engineers and block engineers. The planning, appraisal
and design of rural roads are handled by the Chief Engineer (Advance Planning)
with a staff of about 230 engineers. Road design follows widely accepted
norms, but construction materials testing is minimal. Construction techniques
are usually traditional and labor-intensive. Quality control has been defi-
cient. The analysis of individual roads has tended to be qualitative rather
than quantitative and route selection has been subject to changes in policy
and personnel. REO's participation in the preparation of this project has
improved its capacity to carry out economic appraisal of rural roads, which
should prove valuable in future analyses.
45.       Financial control of the project will be exercised by Divisional
Accountants working within REO but reporting to the Accountant General (GOB),
and financial audits will be carried out on a regular basis by the Accountant
General (GOB) under the GOI Auditor General. These arrangements are satis-
factory to the Association. Quality control will be enforced by REO in
accordance with relevant specifications laid down by the Roads Wing of the
GOI Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Section 2.09 of Project Agreement).
Technical audit will be done by the Technical Examiner's Cell (TEC), an
independent organization under the Cabinet Secretariat of Bihar, staffed by
senior engineers and having its own testing laboratories. A random technical
audit will be carried out by TEC on 10% of project roads (Sections 2.08 of
Project Agreement).
46.       Physical execution of the project will begin in GOB's FY1980/81 and
be completed by FY1984/85.  During the first year, design would be completed
and the first bids invited, evaluated and awarded for procurement of equipment
and for road construction.  Road construction contracts will be awarded during
the first year for about 35 km of road, increasing to about 220 km in the
third year of the project.  Construction equipment financed under the project
will be rented to contractors working on project roads; maintenance equipment
will be used on rural roads either for force account work or by maintenance
contractors.
47.       Land acquisition requirements have been kept to a minimum by main-
taining existing road rights-of-way wherever possible; all necessary land
acquisition will begin well before construction so as not to become an imped-
iment to project implementation. Upon request of the Association, GOB will



- 14 -
provide evidence of necessary land acquisition satisfactory to the Association
(Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement).
Monitoring
48.       The progress of works and the effects of this project on the areas
immediately surrounding the roads will be monitored so that they can serve
as a guide in the planning of future projects. In particular, the following
items will be monitored: (i) progress of works; (ii) actual costs and unit
costs of construction; (iii) progress in the implementation of complementary
investments in the areas surrounding the roads; (iv) traffic counts; (v) agri-
cultural data, including prices and amounts of inputs and outputs; and (vi)
transport data, consisting of the amount of agricultural freight, costs and
rates by mode; and (vii) farmgate and market prices for principal products.
Items (iv) through (vii) will be collected only on a sample of project roads
and their areas of influence.
Cost and Financing
49.         The total cost of the project is estimated at US$52.9 million
(including taxes and duties of US$2.7 million), with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$6.6 million. The principal components, net of contingencies
are: US$31.6 million for road construction, improvement and strengthening,
US$3.8 million for vehicles and road maintenance equipment, US$1.0 million
for incremental staff, and US$0.9 million for incremental operating costs.
Construction costs are based on REO estimates and the January 1980 GOB
Schedule of Rates. Estimates for vehicles and equipment are based on mid-
1980 suppliers' quotations, c.i.f. Bihar. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at 5% for vehicles and equipment, and 10% for other items.
Price contingencies have been estimated at 10% for 1980, 7% for 1981-83,
and 5% thereafter for local costs, and at 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8%
in 1982, and 7% thereafter for foreign exchange costs.
50.       The proposed IDA credit of US$35 million will finance about 70%
of the project costs net of taxes and duties. The credit will cover all
foreign exchange costs (US$6.6 million) and about 62% of local costs (US$28.4
million). The remaining financing (US$15.2 million plus taxes and duties)
will come from State Government sources and GOI. GOB has made adequate bud-
getary provision for the first year of project implementation. The project
provides for retroactive financing of US$500,000 to cover project preparation
costs incurred after June 30, 1979.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       The average length of each separate road section to be constructed,
improved or strengthened under the credit will be less than 6 km, at a cost
of about US$250,000. Since the contracts for road work will be individually
small, scattered over much of the State, and executed intermittently, accord-
ing to the prevailing conditions of weather and flooding, they will not be
attractive to foreign bidders and will, therefore, be awarded through GOB's
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures for civil works. GOB's procedures
for bidding, contract award and contract supervision are governed by regula-
tions which have been reviewed by IDA and found acceptable. GOB contract



- 15 -
documents and conditions are also acceptable to IDA. The large number of
contractors already prequalified by the PWD should result in a high degree
of competition; their numbers should be further increased as a result of
invitations to prequalify which REO would issue to additional, potential
bidders.
52.       To ensure standardization, adequate maintenance and the ready
availability of spare parts, procurement of vehicles, equipment and spares
will be by LCB under existing Government procedures. GOB's LCB procedures
for vehicles and equipment have been reviewed and found acceptable.  Vehicle
and equipment specifications will be reviewed by IDA.
53.        IDA will review all contracts and related documents for goods
and services costing more than Rs 2 million (approximately US$240,000)
before they are awarded. Smaller contracts, up to a cumulative total of
Rs 70 million (about US$8.3 million), will be subject to post-award review
by IDA.
54.        Disbursements under the credit will extend over five years and
will be made against 60% of expenditures for civil works and materials, 90%
of expenditures for vehicles and equipment, and 90% of expenditures for
incremental staff and operating costs. Disbursement applications for civil
works, materials, vehicles, and equipment will be fully documented. Dis-
bursement applications for incremental operating and staff costs will be
supported by statements of expenditure only, but full documentation will be
retained by GOB for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
Benefits and Risks
55.       In the economic evaluation of the project, roads were treated as
an essential element of a rural development package which also includes
irrigation, seeds, fertilizer and pesticides. Under this approach benefits
are measured in terms of the increased agricultural producers' surplus in the
areas surrounding the project roads, that is the increase in the value of the
post-project agricultural output minus the cost to the producer of agricul-
tural inputs. The analysis takes into account likely changes in the total
area under irrigation, the cropping pattern, the use of improved inputs, and
the availability of more competitive rural transport supply. Benefits are
compared with investment costs which include not only the cost of road
construction, improvement and maintenance, but also the cost of providing
additional irrigation in project areas. The overall economic rate of return
of the project is estimated at 21%.
56.       The number of direct beneficiaries of the project, i.e., the farmers
who live in the area surrounding the project roads and would therefore gain
greater accessibility and agricultural surplus, is estimated conservatively at
about 2 million people. Road construction and improvement will generate about
15 million man-days of direct employment spread over four years, and annual
road maintenance will require 60,000 man-days per year after project comple-
tion. The employment thus created will mainly benefit landless peasants and
small farmers. The increased utilization of bullock carts should intensify



- 16 -
competition in rural road transport, resulting ultimately in a more equitable
distribution of project benefits between farmers and road transport operators.
57.        The technical risks of the project are no greater than those
normally associated with operations of this type. They include a delay in
the implementation by GOB of complementary irrigation investments, the short-
age or irregular availability of agricultural inputs such as seeds, fertilizer,
pesticides and farm-to-market transport, and the early deterioration of project
roads as a result of unforeseeable floods or larger-than-anticipated traffic
growth, coupled with inadequate road maintenance. These risks will be mini-
mized by ensuring that road construction and improvements are carried out only
where complementary investments exist or are firmly planned, by implementing
improved construction and maintenance standards and by provisions for adequate
drainage and consideration of the use of causeways in flood-prone areas.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the Project Agreement between the Association and the State
of Bihar and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
59.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
October 22, 1980                                       Ernest Stern



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEeT
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        OLST RECENT ESTIMATEd
TOTAL            3287.6
ACRICULTURAL    1824.0                                   MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    60.0         90.0     180.0              197.9                   894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       108.0/c     141.0/c   176.0/C             166.0                   842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9         547.6      643.9
URBAN POPUtLATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7       21.7               20.8                    39.1
POPUILATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       974. 1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        1645.0
YFAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.0        167.0      196.0             193.2                    376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0         308.0      353.0             409.6                   2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-!4 YRS.                          40.0         42.5       41.4              42.0                     40.4
15-64 YRS.                          56.5         54.6      55.6               55.0                     56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.5          2.9        3.0                3.0                     3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9         2.5        2.0                2.2                     2.4
IRBAN                                2. 5/d      3.3        3.3               3.9                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       43.0        40.0       35.0               37.4                    28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       21.0        17.0       14.0               14.6                     7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2         2.9        2.4                2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      64.0       3782.0    4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          12.0       16.9               15.6                    39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           98.0        102.0      103.0              101.4                   116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    93.0         92.0       91.0               92.4                   108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           52.0         51.0       50.0               49.8                    60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0        15.0       13.0               12.0                    18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       28.0        22.0       18.0               17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0          48.0       51.0               50.8                    63,0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       134.0         ..                 ..                    52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0       33.0               30.2                    42.4
URBAN                                 *-        60.0       83.0               66.0                    62.1
RURAI.                                *          6.0       20.0               20.0                    29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPLULATION)
TOTAI.                               ..         18.0       20.0               17.7                    52.8
URBAN                                ..         85.0       87.0               71.3                    71.1
RLRAL                                 *-         1.0        2.0                ..                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           5800.0/e    4890.0    3617.0               6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      9630.O/e    5220.0    5675.0              9459.0                   2213.6
POPU'LATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2149.0/f    1629.0    1289.0               1758.4                   819.4
URBA1 t                               ..          ..         ..              502.9
RIIRAL                               ..           ..         ..           10524.1
ADMTSS(IONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..         ..                 ..                    28.8
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2          ..        5.2
URBAN                                5.2          ..        4.8
RURAl1                               5.2          ..        5.3
AVERACE NUM3ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6         2.8
TRBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OPF WELL I NCS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RIURA                                ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0        72.0       80.0               80.9                    98.6
MALE                  80.0         87.0      95.0                94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                40.0         55.0      64.0                66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0        29.0       28.0               26.6                    55.5
MALE                  30.0         39.0      38.0                34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                10.0         17.0      18.0                18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   8.0            6.0k        ..                9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0        40.0       42.0               41.1                    34.6
SECONDARY                           16.0        17.0         ..               20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.0      36.0                40.9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.0       1.3                1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0        21.0       24.0               25.8                   118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.1        0.5                2.4                    39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0      16.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6.3       3.8                 ..                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31.3        32.6       32.0               29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0      74.0               70.5                    51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         11.0      11.0               11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0         40.2      39.2               37.9                    39.1
MALE                                  57.1         52.3      51.3                51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                                27.9         27.1      26.2               23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.1                1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF NOUSEHOLDS   26.7           26.3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1            6.7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      88.0              107.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      76.0               86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                 ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       40.7               46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      47.9               51.7                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958;  /g 1967;  /h 1964-65.
April, 1980



ANNEX I
DINT OPSO  SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                         Page    3   of   5
Notes   Although the data are dean fro  sources ge...rally judged the meet authritaive and reliable, it should aloe he noted that they nay co  hr inter-
uatiuallco.yrabi 1_beca... .i_she l-ek,ef meendardi:od defieltioce and --nptn umed by different  Ieoe   In  .e..eoting  ih  data.  The date ate,  oe
thlmuIsfu cdesth             Iade  of _agnItd, IdIouetrends, and oh.-aract -le   nal  major dlfferenona betoeeecoa.trl-e
Th  rfrec        _rrnym   r (1)_ th fume C,touty  eayo  th   u)rt atry and (2) a coutrY g9-o  ithln  smehbt higher average incoe tbh   heoenry                          Pra
of  he  abjoo  ounry  enopi  ee  Capta  Sry1ca Oil inpertera" greap eheI "Middle Inome Nortb AfirIc  aud Middle fEet" i  oh..ee becoeo.               etne
soco-uluoo  o tnatem.    toho reference greP dote the ae e  are popoltlom  -ietgbd anitbmetloean   e  eahidoaofn aoeel  ebe  at
..eat halt of the  eaur       to In Breen baa data for theat d Iater   SInce the   .. eurgo rof eeotim   mog  h  iniaosdpnoe  th  availability of
e-t one  In     .    i.,r.i.-1b f- idioetor ut A ticc am.og the  -nntry and referenee ....
LoAND AREA  (thousend sq.bm.)                                                                  ..nalalon ro Phvu.-an-  douot         -n ccOo 00 cumee  00 pr-at-cn  fc
T   To .. Ttl_-cfaocae-coariaing  land one end inland caer.                               u           iiao qalfod   -o  Iedioal so-1' at -e-_rity Ieo_d
Agrcuioca  -lutmat   f ogric-ltoce  area aud tomyonmeily or ypm_netly                Pyatonen ounaPmc-eplttdIidbyehrofecolg
fe  roy   -yn-re, eerier aed kitchen gandene ot no Ie. fulles; i977 data,                 mete and female gradu-cemo---, ptrati,al nuss,ad InuIten rot
GNP PER CAPITA (US$  - GNP                                            Poultonpe  Snitl  e  -toal   rhn.a toal-  oultin(tot-t,
lI  ft  APTA(I)  -10'  e  capita  ti-tmtes at --rct mekr p-ce, cal-                     ubn   n   ea)doddh   hi   e ci   number of hosPital bndn
oulat'd by nam   re   -rle    ehod - World Seek Atlee (19_76-7i hence); 1960,                 aalbei   ulcadpiaegnrledurlledhala   n   e
caene   o  Included.  tu_e  hespiralo, henoe,t inlude health and medical
andIlelo,petolum   ntural gas adthydee-, oolear eud geotherma  e1-ec                -  cersn .    p -eaetly utaf f,edbyia physician  (but by a modioa.. aietent,
tecly)c    lorencicol  qlvletpner capita; hb,1970, and 1978                        nre,edeite, eto.) eboboter _epat Ien   _ce,adato   n   rvd 
dale.                                                                 llmc~~~~~~~~~~~~I.tnd range nf mednot  enltin.For ntatimticl purposes urba  hecyl-
POPUILATION AND VITAL STATISTICStl.ileWH.piip1gor1-h:pt  ,.d..I
loalPoaoton   id-feor (iliu)- Au of July 1; 1960, 197, ad178                             b    ltla  loca  or  rura  hoPItl  an d medical od metersity  ceter.
Tot.1 P.p.l.ti.o, M (,illi ...             1970, -d 1978             Admiaut.. nc   eyla    edh - Intel oumbe  of  dn-isslea  to or dinch-rge
dote;.p, i                                                                                  free heupitols d1vlidd by the camber of beds.
Orban  ouaIn(percet of tetn1( - ltin of -bha  to rtota  population;
diffeenno dofcnltious of orb on ..... may afetepanability ef data                      gOlfSING
ann   ocro;1960,lOiad 1978,..   doe.                                            Averu  lies  f  n   ..o.chsld   eas  ore h-osehld         rotal  arbo. ad rural-
fultnPrej-ctloneAbrrh.ld cessisso eN a group cfi ldividuotsnceh re  lIing fute
.Pylolo  inya  2101- Curner populasten projeroll n  err hae  on. d           1980           end theIr maIn m-ol..  A  e-rder or ledger may oo nay not ho included i
toalyoultie  y  gead urn and their mortalitc            etlt    ae,t               he Ibneedfor asotistloe1 yarpec.
Peu5nciocyrmtr  foteta t   otmomeceo   heelvlnatr                                      Average   mbero o _  ersen   per,  ro-talurban, and rural-Avrgenm
ing lie enycotacy utfbirth incte...leg nith couty'  Per,        pt  Iem                enoIeauapnrnaI:al  re,ad crol. ..e.upiedrev--tno
level, and femal  life enpectany etebilielng at /7.5 yearN.  The Pan-                     delns   epoley.Ielnaecaeo-pruentut un
nf  -eo  frility rot   aleclov  three 1-levl   umn  deoliec In                            on-lcopged rpuree.             -lig    rld   -p-er                       
feetl~'iltY .. acoding~ tc Inoem   1lael fudp paitfamIly plnIngi  perfurac.-oemt  fpleord                   t   nreto   ellen      oa,ubc   n   ua
tec  caneyischn  nsgnd  re ef  hem   nie_bimations of mortality                 .  Cnetioa  dte         0.11toellinggih   lorityI   lvIng qaeerb sA rcetg
adf-otility trends for p-ejeotier porpur.                                              of C etotal, udbu, an  rua   e1  nn  tyoiey
Intionary yerulatie-    In aItetiery PoPulationteeI  no groeth sicgeAl&eli.g
malucnaac.         i  tI holre,d ouIY after ferrulety reran deloetu  to .                lur  nolettte
sh  oylceen  lve -o-uit ant reProdoonien rate, chen each genertion                 Priayshe   tca..ml   n   eae-Geettl   aeadfml
ofti.ndn .  thycoe btueit   _ntly.  The stautenry populatlun  Ineco                          nrllet  f  l    e  at db primar  lee  am..1 poreuge odf_reetv
ou tlnadonth  hence of the peejeotrd eh-emcsrlutlcl of the  euai pprimay aebol-Ig pultions  normally I-elodre-hltde- age  6-11-i
-eth  ya  20f,ad tbr rote of deoline of fert Iity rote to 11tilI     "h"'--yorubu  ajute  for  tl turre  -ecgt   ofl primary                          r edcal;do 6-1
ment anon.                                                                            rohsoteteY..eec ti...ryith  niv-rau1 adoration eer1_ott may e_ceed lOf per_oet
eonsnt Inuv rroarlr  n recod    Tn  earebn aatcanrypoplaion           atn-  nea  PPiln are beam or abov  the off ifinalIcho ae.
nine-q hen -htde reached,           Pr      -eki                                           Secondary nehol - nora1. _l aud f_rue - Computed at abov; -e-ndory
fcpolaoioo lenntity                                                               e hrt-.   f   duo.utlo  require  at lean.t feor year. of apprvdprimar  in-trootiee;
totl  OO~uuly of 12 to 17 Year. of age;cre pee  e                                                                                                     .ce core  are generall
PouaIonAeSrcue(mc                     hlrn(0-li Years), cork cnn-age (10-                 v . includ   tehurull,-tedura,r   te   rgasaihoeaei
hI yoaon), and retired (65  et   n   vn   mperose    fmdya  peo-                              dntyora         deate teo  anoean -        ncttonV.
otOe; 1960, 197        . ad 197  data,                             Pidl-teerhp  ratio    prImary  en a1                                oday    Tta  studh acest enrlld  In
P.orlatien Gotr     ae(eest      eel-Ana   rnthR,o-7d          raedo tnl  idtriay  endI ndopndary                               .....divdedy by  ambrt of eacer   cth
yro   epltlsefu   95-6,  9f-0.ad 1970-78.                                          cocreftst1ydondTing                                       t,lecele,1         I
PYrolacon leoth.. tact  trec     ) -  rhan-1   A-uo1 greth ratsofubaPp-                      Adl I-tehrar  rote (reeet  -  ient    u    (able torocod  aduIe
l..totIonsfur191:5-60,t 1960-70, mud 1970-78                                                  Amaper1cennageY of tetut adult poultion-It g           bod 15 yersand Aover,t
Crdeirc  faafrereoad  - A--nal itve birnh. per tho..uand of mid-year                            A
"poplutien; 1960;.1910, and 1978 dan.                                                   ConI1d.t i9lti    gd  5yTrIuS                                             yr
Crude loath Fate (per tbo....d)9- Aenua  deoLhs Per thoosond of mid-year                  CNUPauegT CrI       (eObuNdpeeain      Pnegrue  cnrn    ae
Popultion; 1960, 1970, and 19716 dat,cr   ern   eeuunegtyrcu   u1dm   mocce                                                                                     rr   n
ContRrcuclunaeAerg   nme  of daughturnanIma   i111 bea  i                                  militar  o      ..thnhitPclac,lo.  -. ....h .-
hr corne  rprdactive perIod if  b   ueisr    ree   g-pcI  cfe                         ladlotr lec hiirslynsemn.pplto)-Al  ye   fecnve                              rrd
taiy Pnin-AcneYtef. AnuaY (teusnd9 -Anulamr  ofocepor                                          remdroInera in          "'  PPuntn-caAend in  year  che    eg .atratin  ufrdi  era
of   irc-ontroldeice  une...         oeo   ainlfmlypanu    rgo.                          eui   f  ot   aafercn   eu    a   e  he9comparable nnPe me tt
fail Pacteglur.      (cr tdfmaridcoe)    -Prenaer nf maned tunta  ahoiuhdfIcertug
semnf  C  hid-eain  age (15-6                of    t year) c I cue  irt -ogte  devicesto..TV cevrs- leer thmn -ot,eulsdon( -.. TV              _ e rivec  u      ...don  toi
all murred oume  in nameage grop,                      enueel publi  per thuaand puulatten  encludm IuIltceted TV  ocnlden
_rte  o   uar   hc  aeeibeaddeti   iuricth-e  .nteead                                  Cnm  Aneu Attiehdelie r.r.CaItar ve-lrdn  h   ubro
FOO tiANaD aveRagI     rdcrTrcIOgtaN916,  90   u   97   aa                                     n  mobil  u Its.           ..  ppI-i
Poe cpit      rupdiy _i calonlca         -eroIn odreuiem      ofe - e Co puted enom ~         ..f~    -Ito   p    h.-dp,?I                         h.th    -g   J
energy~ ~~~~~~o eqIaeto a  udnppimaalbei onrypnvpt                          10 OC
nep..doft andy, c hihagmi  at.eok,bte   nplicdld  amimelPteed,d need                       ait. ren  fume   and onepleynd. ha-nnlding  bu-eale,ntde,to
tunloeue   t   ed  rcssArd  oae                       is-itriuton        fequir'-          tl efl`dily fene.t                    -  ft1   ..ie
andar  dlatr'IlbutAgon of . Pop dlatiou, am  lf   eg1  peh -rcetI orantb     a dci-ulAr..e Arercent). labor Cerre in foelg  foety,hk in.                          n
houehld  evl;196-6,11707ed 177dat,19aingedfetesag   oftoallabndene;100  1070i.                                                           adr 17   ae
netg supp1y    .. of feed per d da. ecapply of dyIb ed In define  amr aove    r           n   letipy    atredgmanfretf  o   oa   aorfre 
Worldt. r        t ood Suny ,16 -65, g 190ad 1977 . danad.                                1960, 1970, andde  1970  -data.  T..o.e erall -L'  tie aia   ae   otecn
Peecaptaproeinsuplytee  aIma an  pl n-Peten sppl  o  fod d-             gear  aer-~uru -c of th  peultio,adln   ieted        e   ni
"r   1--t-d bY FACI b..d - phy.                                Dfii~~m ti.. urn from na rn _t neros
Chlb(gs1-toetltycr  (pe thouand)-i- Anua  dea.th per tosn   n                        n  the p.- natal labo  foc.1-I.   .p,1II1   --   -                       .e
a t herO; 1960            d.Nt   pl   f= p ..   g   t  -%   ..  f---;16, 1970 ad  97  dta
of  geperthuI ad  ovehith.                                                               celete.IsrltePoertedoam  lvel(P) er  a  ita--urbn  ndburl 
ofbe  ofpol   ttl   ro,edr0afet   osnbeucu  to_noPe                                   ntcrtIo iatYedrqoter. diet plu   praantlel necfoo t rt1qsbio feet is9not
eaeP m0ly(ncuesteae   sracutor  en  untrate  hot uuotinacd                                 affordable.t.,   l                               dfeI 
coc _ldertdebing  7ihl  resure  nrau  thatt"             beun. In cora   areas                        .t.r.-ltl  -
dono  bnetospndahimneoeeuste  pat-f1 heda  Inftcigthe                                ,atmtd  ouftv  EnecAbolt Povrt  foose Intel  fnonst -Iuba
foldlF' od eater     196d1.                                                               aud rural - Pirbyan of pothuird       (orb-an ard rurall  h  are-"asolte-por"
diuonfa   - as  erenags-f hnereponvepoalcica                    tce-tdi-                                                   coefo  ndtoie  Ita fiv-i-ulco           .f..i
pea   apOcue  h    uleto  and~l.i~' dIupIa,          65t  r 970cocranrr,icua 1977P                                         lynmti., and1-  trojeciou  leAntuont
orhild co tc lica an    pue-rte             ac-hnoYat9no  ortAleuno of                  ,                                                   Apeti-,19_C
Klc pdvuc- vd n-iladeotahletitu



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOXIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
0s/
GiP PER CAPITA IN 1978: USS 180
b/                                                                                                          c
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT  N 1978/79                                                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (t. constant prices)
USS Bin.         %                  1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-0977/78
03P at  oarke- Prices                  117.08       100.0                       3.7                3.6                 3.7                2.8                 5.6
Gross Domes-ic Investnt                 28.28        24.2
Cr-ss National Saving                   28.11        24.0
C-rrent A-_o-nt Balance  d/              0.50         0.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
V.Iae Added (at factor cost)             Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
UISS Bln.            /.              Mil.         7             US$         % of National A-verae
A oricolc ore                       24.5               46.6             130.0       72.1            188                 64
Ird-stry                             11.8               22.3              20.2       11.2            582                199
Services                             16.3               31.1              30.2       16.7            542                186
Ttal/a-orago                        52.6              100.0             180.4      100.0            292                100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Genral Govereesent                                              Central Governmnnt
Rs. Bln.             . of GDP                                   Rs Bln             % Of GDP
1978/79      1978/79  1974/75-1978/79                           97           1978179   1974/75-1978/79
Current Receipts                    183.65        19.1           l8.3                                107.71       11.2          10.6
Corrent Enp-nditarot                177.26        18.4          16.7                                 108.99       11.3          10.1
Currect S-rpl-s/Orficit               6.41         0.7            1.6                                - 1.28       -0.1           0.5
Capital Expenditures  f/             78.41         8.1           7.2                                  57.34        6.0           5.1
xternal  Assistance  (net) d/         8.15         0.8           1.4                                   8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79   SePteLber 1978   September 1979
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of p-riod)
Marcy and Quani Money               121.4         198.4        220.3        254.7       308.9         370.4       445.6         398.5            473.7
anhk Credit to Government (-et)    52.6            87.3        95.3        100.1         110.2       134.7        153.9         139.5            161.7
Bank Credit ta Conmercial Sector   64.6           107.0        126.7       163.9        185.1        212.2        253.3         225.8            273.8
(Percentage or Iode- Numbers)                                               January 1979    January 1980
Mosey and Quasi Honey an X
af GDP                            30.1         33.5         31.5         34.5         38.8         41.5         46.3
Ahblanate Pric Inder
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0        139.7        174.9        173.0        176.6        185.8        185.8         185.3           224.0
Aonsuai poroentage chanRau ton
Wholosale Price Index                 7.7         20.2         25.2         - 1.1         2.1          5.2           -            0.4            20.9
Rack Credit to Govarnment (net)    10.8           12.3          9.2          6.1          9.0         22.2         14.3          16.9            15.9
Bank Credit to Connercial Sector   19.4           22.6         18.4         21.5         20.3         14.6         19.4          15.6            21.3
a/  The per capita GNP  etitate is at market prices. calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas. 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Estia tes.
c   Compated froc treed lien  of GNP at factor cost serea  including one observation before first year and one observation
after laot year of listed period.
I/ World Bank estimaten, not necessarily consistent with offUcial figures.
e/ T-nsnfers beci-en Center and States have beet netted oat.
A/ Al loans and advunces to third parties have been netted nut.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80                                               7 MERCH4NDISE EXPORTS  VERGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
Exports of Goods                         5,753       6,315       6,976       7,800           Engineering Goods               671         11
Imports of Goods                        -5,928      -7,188      -8,488    -11,000            Tea                            420           7
Trade Balance                           -  175      -  873      -1,512     -3,200            Gm                              499          8
NFS (net)                                  379         692         882       1.050           clothing                        378          6
Resource balance                           204       - 181       -630      -2,15L                     Products               319          5
Jute Manufactures              251          4
Interest Payments (net)  i/               -182       -  89         130         400           Iron Ore                        270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -           -           -          -             Cotton Textiles                 248          4
Net Transfer.   J/                         695       1,077       1,000       1,000           Sugar                           224          4
-750          Others                       2,649         45
Balance on Current Account                 717         807         500        -750
Total                        5.929        100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,955       1,628       1,695      1,870            EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1979
Amortization                           -560        -645        -702    -   667                                                 USS billion
Transactions with IMP                     -337        -330        -158         -             Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.5
All Other Items                           -200         616         199    -  -183            Undisbursed                                 5.2
Outstanding, including                     20.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                -1,575      -2,076      -1,534    -   250              lUndisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                3,747       5,823       7,357       7,607                                            h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  k/              3,276       5,668       7,357       7,607           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978/79         15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                   IBRD/IDM LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1979
Imports                                  1,581       1,811       2,043      4,050                                                  U5$ million
of which: Petroleum                   1,581       1,811       2,043      4,050                                             IBRD             IDA
Exports                                     37          32          24         -             Outstanding and Disbursed        689             4,286
of which: Petroleum                      21          18        n.e.        _             Undisbursed                       614             2,621
Outstanding, including         1,303             6,907
Uindisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971              US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972          US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                         Floating Rate
Spot Rate and-December 1978                 US$1.00 - Rs 8.188
Rs 1.00 - US$0.122
End-December 1979                        : US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - USS0.126
h/  Estimated.
i/ Figure. given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to DLF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMP credit.
L/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                               1,163.2
64 Credits fully disbursed                                      3,803.4
342-IN      1972   India    Education                  --          12.0    4.82
378-IN      1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                 --          8.0    1.59
390-IN      1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --            55.0    3.75
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing                        13.0    6.80
1011-IN      1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0           --     16.85
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy             --         30.0   19.56
502-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --         83.0   32.62
521-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --         27.7   14.36
522-IN      1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --             16.4    6.17
526-IN      1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --          35.0    4.93
1079-IN      1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer           109.0      --       4.08
1097-IN      1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI             95.6      --       2.95
532-IN      1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --         45.0    5.97
541-IN      1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development             --         34.0   10.86
562-IN      1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD            --         24.0    3.79
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0    5.82
585-IN      1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --         40.0   19.62
598-IN      1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --        105.0   42.58
604-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --           150.0   68.39



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0     1.97
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    11.82
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0       --      96.17
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0       --      19.74
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       --      23.55
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0          --      23.24
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0          --       8.85
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   26.06
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   12.71
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0   79.85
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   11.30
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --         4.0    0.00
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    7.36
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --        23.0   15.63
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --     22.74
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   42.14
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0    9.96
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   41.35
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     21.93
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   87.54
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   43.75
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.39



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --      24.65
1549-IN     1978   TEC        Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      88.13
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   94.22
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  167.16
806-IN      1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.88
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --         85.0   74.22
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   16.47
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          -          16.0   15.77
1592-IN      1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0         --      59.39
824-IN      1978   India    National Dairy            --        150.0  138.16
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  192.10
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --        111.0   69.23
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  166.07
848-IN     1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   31.58
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.31
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   20.96
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                       --         30.0   20.79
1648-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --      50.00
874-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  177.14
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  115.98
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.59
911-IN     1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  172.86
925-IN     1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.39



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN     1979   India      ARDC III                  --     250.0      161.06
1743-IN     1979   India      Thal Fertilizer         250.0      --       250.00
963-IN     1979   India      Inland Fisheries                  20.0       20.00
954-IN     1979   India      Maharashtra
Irrigation II                 210.0      198.69
961-IN     1979   India      Gujarat Community
Forestry                       37.0       34.93
981-IN     1980   India      Population II                     46.0       46.00
1053-IN*    1980   India      Farakka Thermal
Power                         225.0      225.00
1003-IN     1980   India      Tamil Nadu Nutrition              32.0       32.00
1004-IN     1980   India      U.P. Tubewells                    18.0       17.82
1011-IN     1980   India      Gujarat Irrigation II            175.0      175.00
1027-IN     1980   India      Singrauli Thermal II             300.0      300.00
1012-IN     1980   India      Cashewnut                         22.0       22.00
1028-IN     1980   India      Kerala Agricultural
Extension                       10.0      10.00
1046-IN     1980   India      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewer                      80.0       80.00
1843-IN     1980   ICICI      Industry DFC XIII       100.0               100.00
1887-IN*    1980   India      Farakka Thermal
Power                 25.0                25.00
1053-IN*    1980   India      Farakka Thermal
Power                         225.0      225.00
Total                                  2,653.8  8,401.6
of which has been repaid             1,027.5     64.4
Total now outstanding                  1,626.3  8,337.2
Amount Sold                   133.8
of which has been repaid   120.3        13.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,612.8  8,337.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           576.3  3,348.9
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                   Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                        Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.6        0.4        1.0
1964        Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8        1.3       13.1
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.1        0.1        1.2
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                               4.0        1.2        5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.           7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS             61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7       7.6
Repaid                              19.1         -        19.1
Cancelled                            6.2        1.3        7.5
Now Held                            29.9        8.5       38.4
Undisbursed                         10.5        1.1       11.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to US$538 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980 totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,925
million as of August 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843   Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
h2e-n made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: October 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date:  November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:  September 7, 1973;
-Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the (:r~edit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduiates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date.: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 1046    Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Detailed construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and pre-
paration of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one oF the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   AndhraPradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954    Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit
of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011   Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
)credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028   Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit
of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where regu-
lar extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system
itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system. In Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961    Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects were designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and supply raw materials to cottage industries. The projects provide for
large-scale tree plantations on public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 963    Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries, improve-
ments to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establish-
ment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980, and the
initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of State
Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring
units, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of Jude 19, 1978; Effective Date:  February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027   Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Ln. No. 1887   Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of June 26, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053   December 10, 1980 (expected); Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/Credit
1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been
carrying out construction and operation of these power stations. Loan 1549
is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata Electric
Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast load growth
in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects are pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Although the transmission project financed by Credit
604 suffered delays in preparation of technical specifications and evaluation
of bids for higher sophisticated equipment, the project is now progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 911    Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of mothers
and children and the lowering of fertility. Early implementation works have
started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012   Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10,
1980; Effective Date: SeDtember 3, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh
and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003   Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004   Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is underway on this project.



ANNEX III
INDIA
BIHAR RURAL ROADS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Twenty months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Bihar, assisted by Bank Group staff
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
February 1978            June 1978
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
October 3, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
February 20, 1981
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
GOB to carry out construction and improvement of project roads
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association
(para 41).
GOB to implement a phased program of road maintenance (para 42).
GOB to establish a project cell within REO by March 31, 1981
(para 44).
GOB to enforce quality control on project works, and to
carry out a random technical audit of 10% of project roads
(para 45).



IBRD 14878R
o>\i'  k Anp,ne,ee, me. nfcf Conrn                   B4t 00                                                                               86 00'                                                                                   OCTOBER 1980
twoX~~~~... .                                                    8400                                                                                 86' 00'DI 
INDIA
'PAKISTAN, t                       CHINA                                                                                                                                BIHAR   RURAL  ROADS
-  ~~~       &f~~  BH-TAN-0 l'
/N7_ />                                                   KILOMETERS  I                                                                        Project Roads  -  North  Bihar
t g  "' ._ ,, T _ _ / '                                   MILES I
'. %thdi CVA'  A]            t    .          =  ,    -      <               <                                              *NiMOTI2K  Road Proiects                    4        Airports
\g   I N D I A                 I<URMA                                                                                                                         a otionl Highwoys R                      Moaor Airport
Momn Roods                       0       District Heodquorters
-      AllI - Weother Roods                    District Boundories
/      V- -  Unpaved Roods            -          State Boundaries
|A.,.;             y' iass1@ef va B.MG-olEVg .?                                                                     <A                                                     Railroads                                Internotioonl Boundories
A rob son                    Ba of Bongo!t                                                                                                            W--                                         L
Risers
L*Die@todrMbeDunO           -            -HS 28Dntst hO ir Cnkasa
Thot mapba beenprepard by lbn
Wold Bank  -taff-l eoo-ny for
th oonv hane-oeredes of                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
Ml rprtt      -d,o  - oatahd _h_                                          -.                                                                                  tt
b-dondneohot- o- ihde nap                                                        -'I-,
WoOd Bo  o         t any                           NM  OF -  -
j    Sdpreot on thel fe1oatue of                                           AM        B
-yr terntory oray eodor--n 1'nn                                                           ,sit,
oroopan of snb ...rd-ones
-   IBRD 15089 ^  \ n A   ADOED IN PARENTHESIS.                                                                                                                          >                                     ,,LA
)   _+ /  >- .  84000                                                           86O 0o,                                                                                 8eooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 0'
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s~~~~rs~~~f5U>TT ARo
A' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
S   Sta   oruthc BiAENOhHarM.DSTITNAP   tbBE
-r IBRD 15089 8BODI8PRNBOO
'5   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'2,P
N  '>  54CQQ'                                                                     86~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00'                                                   SB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00~~"810






IBRD 15088R
L  -84'rK   uo,s     i                             -     '                      B00'                                                                                        86,00'                                                                               OCTOBER  1980
-P.c STAN;    '    C HINA                                                                                                                                                                          BIHAR    RURAL  ROADS
P                                                                                                                                                                                                                             South Bihar
I ND    A            ' r- J   BRM
(Blh0rIE. -t                                                                                 .- Shi
r~~~~K  |                           (a  f'                                    -    5/SU; Bh ../2  5955X........ ;9                 PATN >\4)..A ''' ,
d7   n   t    mply    on   she  pa  7  of  7h7  <       J J f             -      >      -    ,;   4\8 .l   A         it                 '   .     1'   '    -                                  SIB.AW             \P                I.P
/udtmm7 m7hs ley.d t7tusof ) 2 . , S ls\o} \< -L 3. ' C/DIi EO-IK                                                      llrllt) II '   ' \ Sttt=prgn  ._
I  RIRMA-                                                                 A
|/                                          ado      sI'5%                                        A   A   '2 b
P~~~~~~~~~~~
|rcbrdRD   lA7d1'*'  do', of eac '                     AIport  /-   L   %
.      SRI                                                    (Pp/ta oDistrc,                   K  u     tit   edurer                                                                                                              k<
Thi ap haS be  pre,pard by the
World Bank sta,,ffsslseh "'6                                                                              s.di7
thm 7r   aed Rooncsof'enc Bottnadurost                  0                                  80 oJos-
the reot o ,oh it' attahed
bs -ds-u  h-rs     used and t-he
do oat-pt an- th prt & th
Wod    anldr  affrhanci. soy
soy os--ur oray ead-r-aen
orscyac  f ouh buiO/Wo
AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r ~        ~~~~                             ~~~ ,H R   O  TESM.DITITNME-AEBE
Ndirth Bihar  IBRD 14878   D
Q       National Highway                            Major Airport
/                   ~~~~~~~Main Roads                    0       District HeadquartersCua
-      South Bihaor                                            All -Weather Roacl               -          District Boundaries
N  N                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ~~Unpaved  Roads    Slate Boundortes                         5                      50                     100
~~  I              --------  ~~~~Railroads                                 ItrainlBtdoesKILOMETERS                                                                             J                                      t
Rivers                            ~~~~~~~~MILES                306
sChotanagjpiur<~
&StSnthsal Pargcand-                                 IF NAMES OF DISTRICTS AND THEIR HEADQUARTERS
c   ~ ~~~~~UARE NIT THE 5AME, lISTR CT NAMES HAhE REEIN
>IBRD 15O89~~~~~~ N ~ASSES IN PARENTHEStS.
~BkD 1508
86-00






IBRD 15089R
'  S  'O x                                                                  OCTOBER 1980
SOW    {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ~~~~~INDIA
PAK,SIAI'.j  -x  CHINA                                         w           s.,                                                                                                        BIHAR   RURAL  ROADS
/                       C H I N A                                         R 
Project Roads - Chotanagpur &  Santhal Pargana
IN DIA  0                       1BJRMA  /    )            ,                                   \                                                                            _ _ _ _
Aryst map         h          as' b:npeatr   te-.f 8 ,   "4o nC o 
580                                                                                         C,IIAIJIIZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           5                      o
World Bdnstferal5vyorMADHYA g8./    (ltOSdw t _t Irsl for
the rn et Ien    DI the readers ofMTS
the report to wh6ch ,t to attached                        P R A  D E S H                   {      4               Z               v -  CRAN'IK wH         \   CaKH11/7K^?\ 
bnu72dtaoah 2 st   on sh, s nap                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24 j_ di
do not nnply on7 the part of the  _, <  _  /
World Bask and Its alf,l,atee. dayfIS;   
a2y te7rrItory or any enos7 telnent                                                                 1                                     _y \                            r.                 A
ar occoytanre of ouch hot,tdr,Aes                                                                            ,_(                        / f           \                                               _                                 WEST
c A 1 <         VAt'S                                        Road  Ptrojects                         .                                      f               -'\                    .z9fi 
t; >("                       A                         2      Notional Hgwy -  ,>f,e; \  
[,_t 9 8 _ 0; --    Al -We ather Roads                                                                           ,                                          4;j0g>t____
\ 'IBRD 15088                                    (         oio  Aitrpc Hadurers ''  --  t > 
-<=t                  I ,    tI-*g-                      District Boundaries                                                      v. -         /     JJ               >2                       P '          \'
w Chotorogpr  ->-                                               State Boundaries                            O R IS SA                             *5J                                                                                                                    ou 22400'
t a,    C h ota,   ~~~~~   -*- ~              internattonal Boundaries                                                                                    *_0v
T, , -, h- b-  plvp-ebrsh
T Sonth- l Porgon -d                        It NAMES OF DISTRICTS  HN0 THR  HEPB5UARTERS
E f > 9 U'.,   r                           ARE NOT THE SAME, DISTRICT NAMES HAVE SEEN
_ --py - h P.fthASSES i PARENTHESIS.
W.dd8-k  d,.  h1Or                                                                                                                                                           56Y0



