OCMENTS     CREDIT NUMBER 1072 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Bihar Rural Roads Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     ,198 O
I~-.~-               -


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1072 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   V -                        , 1980, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Bihar
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the State of Bihar the pro-
ceeds of the-Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
State of Bihar;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto -hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980 with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Bihar" means the State of Bihar, acting by its Gover-
nor, a State of India or any successor thereof;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Bihar of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-2-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "REO" means the Rural Engineering Organization of
Bihar.
ARTICLE II
The Crediz
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreemeut
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to twenty-six million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary., 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1991, and ending
August 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Bihar to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Bihar to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Bihar in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Bihar shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement; and
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Bihar will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Bihar.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Bihar, and is legally
binding upon Bihar in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date     k                Sf     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section' 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint-
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India


﻿-5-
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
/ /L.
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table, below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to4.be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  20,870,000         60%
and materials
(2) Equipment, tools              3,150,000         90%
and spares
(3) Operating and                 1,830,000         90%
staff costs       j
(4) Unallocated                     850,000
TOTAL        26,700,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be 'consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent


﻿-7-
of $500,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 30, 1979.
4." Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditufes; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to provide all-weather road communi-
cations in selected rural areas of the State of Bihar and consists
of the following:
Part A: , The constructi.on., improvement and strengthening of
about.700 km of REO administered rural roads..
Part B:   The improvement of routine and periodic maintenance
on REO administered rural roads.
Part C:   The provision of -road construction and maintenance
equipment.
Part D:   The ,strengthening of REO.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


