CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 450 TO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 28, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 450 TO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 28, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF
TOGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Develcpment Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of
Sections 5.01 and 6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into
6.02(h) thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "MTP" means the Ministere de Transport, Travaux Publics, des Mines
et TdlIcommunications of the Borrower;
(b)   "DTP" means the Direction des Travaux Publics of MTP; and
(c)   "STR" means the Service de Transport Routier of MTP.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($8,700,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement and to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15, 1984, and ending September 15, 2023, each installment
to and including the installment payable on September 15, 1993, to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through MTP with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association, to an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, and appoint qualified Togolese personnel as counterparts to such
consultants' personnel.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A, B, D and E of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association, to an extent and upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
approval, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information


﻿6
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financ;d out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the highway operations, resources and expenditures of DTP and, in respect
of the Project, of any other department or agency of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)   adopt such measures as shall be necessary to (i) ensure at all times
that the dimensions and axle-loads of the vehicles using the national highway system
of the Borrower shall not exceed limits consistent with the design standards of
the roads included within such system and (ii) ensure permanent and consistent
enforcement of the Borrower's laws and regulations setting forth such limits; and
(b)   establish  and  maintain  facilities to  collect systematically  and
periodically and to record such data as shall be required to assess the technical,
economic and financial aspects of (i) the Borrower's highway system and (ii) road
transport activities within the territories of the Borrower.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) cause all roads within the highway
system of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause necessary repairs
thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound engineering practices; (b) cause
all road maintenance equipment and workshops of the Borrower to be adequately
maintained and cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all
in accordance with sound engineering practices; and (c) provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. Without limitation upon the obligations of the Borrower
pursuant to Section 4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement (Highway
Maintenance Project) between the Borrower and the Association, dated October 10,
1968, the Borrower shall:


﻿7
(a)   consult with the Association on the economic justification of any major
investment in the Reseau des Chemins de Fer du Togo before deciding on the
carrying out of any such investment; and
(b)   afford the Association an opportunity to review, and make comments
on, the Etude de Developpement des Transports Ferroviaires et Routiers undertaken
for MTP in 1972-1973 before arriving at any major decision concerning the
operations of the Rdseau des Chemins de Fer du Togo.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the highway administration, operations, resources and expenditures of
DTP and, in respect of the Project, of any other departments or agency of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the highway administration, operations, resources and expenditures of
DTP and, in respect of the Project, of any other departments or agency of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿8
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date of April 29, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿9
Section 8.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre des Finances et de l'Economie of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et de l'Economie
Lom6
Republic of Togo
Cable address:
MINFINANCES
Lom6, Togo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿10
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s / Jacques Togbe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Xavier de la Renaudiere
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below    sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the portion of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         Portion of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   Civil works                   5,000,000           65% of total ex-
for Parts A,                                     penditures (rep-
B, D and E                                       resenting the es-
of the                                           timated foreign
Project                                          expenditure com-
ponent)
II.   Earth moving                   120,000           100% of foreign
equipment for                                    expenditures
Part C of the
Project
III.  Civil works                    190,000           the equivalent of
for Part C                                       $4,750 per each
of the Proj-                                     completed km. of
ect                                              road improvement
works (represent-
ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component,
net of equipment
depreciation)
IV.  Consultants'                    700,000          90% of total ex-
services for                                     penditures (rep-
Parts A, B, C,                                   representing the
D and E of the                                   estimated foreign
Project                                          expenditure com-
ponent)
V.   Technical                       940,000          90% of total ex-
assistance,                                      penditures (rep-
including                                        resenting the es-
consultants'                                     timated foreign
services, f6r                                    component)
Parts F, (, H
and I of the
Project


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         Portion of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
VI.  Training of                  110,000            100% of foreign
Togolese per-                                   expenditures
sonnel and pur-
chase of soil
testing equip-
ment for the
DTP (Part F of
the Projectj
VII. Unallocated                1,640,000
TOTAL           8,700,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term   "foreign  expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be " foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement;
and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph


﻿13
1 above in respect of Categories I, II, IV, V or VI, or, in the case of Category
III the amotint set forth in such column, would exceed the amount payable net
of all such taxes, such percentage or amount, as the case may be, shall be reduced
to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments
for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase:
(i) the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of Categories I, II, IV, V or VI shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to any such Category from the unallocated amount of
the Credit; and (ii) in the case of Category III, the amount to be so reallocated
and the portion of expenditures to be financed shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association; subject, however, in both cases, to
the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect
of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under this Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above in respect of Categories I, IV or V, or, in the case of Category
III the amount set forth in such column, if the estimate of total expenditures
to be financed under such Categories shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation to any such Categories, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage or amount, as the case may be, then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under any such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:    Rehabilitation works, including inter alia strengthening, widening of
the pavement to a two-lane standard, and realignment, on about 81 km.
of the road between Blitta and Sokode.
Part B:    Improvement works, including inter alia construction, widening, to a
two-lane gravel standard, and realignment on about 35 km. of the road
between Sokode and Tchamba.
Part C:    Improvement works, including inter alia widening, and realignment on
about 40 km. of the road between Tchamba and Kambole.
Part D:    Reconstruction works on seven bridges in the road between Tchamba
and Kambole.
Part E:    Construction of a new two-lane gravel road between Agou and Nuatia,
about 51 km. long.
Part F:    Carrying out of a three year highway maintenance program, including
inter alia technical assistance to DTP, training of Togolese highway
maintenance personnel and acquisition of soil testing equipment for
DTP.
Part G:    Carrying out of a technical and economic survey of about 2,000 km.
of unpaved roads, to be selected by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for the purpose of preparing:
(1)   a re-classification of roads; and
(2)   a program of highway repair or improvement.
Part H:    Carrying out of (1) economic feasibility studies for improvement works
on the road between Tabligbo and Anecho; and (2) detailed engineering
studies for such improvement works, once the technical feasibility and
economic justification thereof have been demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association.


﻿15
Part I:     Improvement of the organization and operations of STR, particularly
with regard to the collection, recording and assessment of data
concerning the road transport industry within the territories of the
Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1976.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works for Parts A, B, D and E of
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to pre-qualify. The Borrower shall, before
pre-qualificationt is invited, inform the Association ;n detail of the procedure to
be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified contractors, together
with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for pre-qualification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower
shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the pre-qualified contractors.
(c)   For bidding purposes, road construction and improvement works shall
be divided into three sections comprising, respectively, Part A, Parts B and D,
and Part E of the Project. The invitations to bid for such works shall, inter alia,
specify that (i) bidders may submit bids in respect of one or more of such sections;
(ii) all such bids will be opened and awarded simultaneously; (iii) awards shall
be made on the basis of the lowest evaluated bid or combination of bids; and
(iv) the Borrower will have the option of awarding to one contractor a single
contract in respect of one or more sections or separate contracts to different
contractors in respect of each section. A period of at least 60 days shall be allowed
for the submission of bids.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder or bidders to whom it intends to award a contract or contracts and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, the reports of
the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Development Credit Agreement
on the evaluation of the bids together with the Borrower's recommendations for


﻿17
award, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall promptly
inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, and shall state the reasons
for any objections it may have.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract or of any amendment thereto
shall be furnished to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract or any such amendment.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works for Parts A, B, D and
E of the Project the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Earth moving equipment required for the carrying out of Part C of the
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category
II of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement, shall be
procured in accordance with the applicable procurement procedures of the
Borrower. In the selection of suppliers, the Borrower may take into account its
need to standardize such equipment with other similar or comparable equipment
already owned by the Borrower. In all other respects, the rules set forth in paragraph
2 above shall apply to the procurement referred to in this paragraph.


