                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 28270-BO

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (PPFI-Q0940 IDA-32440)

                           ON AN ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT




                              IN THE AMOUNT OF 17.8 MILLION


                               TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA




                                            FOR A

                             HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
                                            (APL-I)




                                          June 9, 2004




Human Development Department
LC6 (Bolivia, Ecuador, Perú and Venezuela) Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective April 21, 2004)

                                         Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
                                                 Bs 1.00 = US$ 0.127
                                               US$ 1.00 = Bs. 7.90

                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                          January 1 to December 31

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL    Adaptable Program Loan
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CDF    Comprehensive Development Framework
DFID   Department for International Development
DHS    Demography and Health Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Demografía y Salud)
FIS    Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social)
FPS    Social Productive Investment Funf (Fondo de Inversión Productiva y Social)
HIPC   Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA    International Development Association
IDB    Inter-American Development Bank
IEC    Information, Education and Communication
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IMCI   Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (Atención Integral de las Enfermedades Prevalentes de la
       Infancia)
INE    National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadística)
MAR    Resource Allocation Mechanism (Mecanismo de Asignación de Recursos)
MBP    Mother-Baby Package (Paquete Materno-Neonatal)
MDGs   Millenium Development Goals
MIS    Management Information System
MOH    Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud y Deportes)
PA     Performance Agreements
PAI    Expanded Program of Immunization (Programa Ampliado de Inmunización)
PAHO   Pan American Health Organization
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
PROISS Integrated Health Development Project (Proyecto Integrado de Servicios de Salud)
SBS    Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Básico de Salud)
SEDES  Regional Health Administration (Servicio Departamental de Salud)
SNMN   National Maternal-Child Insurance (Seguro Nacional de Maternidad y Niñez)
SNIS   National Health Information System (Sistema Nacional de Información en Salud)
SUMI   Maternal and Infants National Insurance (Seguro Universal Materno-Infantil)
UDAPE  Unit for the Analysis of Economic and Social Policies (Unidad de Análisis de Políticas
       Económicas y Sociales)


                                      Vice President:        David de Ferranti
                                   Country Director:         Marcelo Giugale
                                     Sector Director:        Ana-María Arriagada
                                     Sector Manager:         Evangeline Javier
                                 Task Team Leader:            Juan Pablo Uribe

                                           BOLIVIA
                         HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1.
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           6.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                           13.
6. Sustainability                                                               15.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                16.
8. Lessons Learned                                                              18.
9. Partner Comments                                                             20.
10. Additional Information                                                      23.
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                            25.
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                            26.
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                            29.
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                            30.
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components            33.
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                               34.
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           35.
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                    36.
Annex 9. Executive Summary of the Borrower's Final Project Evaluation           40.

Project ID: P060392                                                  Project Name: BO- HEALTH REFORM-APL I
Team Leader: Juan Pablo Uribe                                        TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BO- HEALTH REFORM-APL I                                  L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0940; IDA-32440
   Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (74%); Sub-national government administration (12%);
                            Compulsory health finance (8%); Other social services (3%); Central
                            government administration (3%)
                  Theme: Child health (P); Population and reproductive health (P); Health
                            system performance (P); Participation and civic engagement (P);
                            Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/30/1998                                     Effective: 12/13/1998
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/15/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA/THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Marcelo Giugale                                      Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Evangeline Javier                              Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Juan Pablo Uribe
ICR Primary Author:             Juan Pablo Uribe; Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objective of the Phase I of the Adjustable Program Loan (APL) under the Health Reform
Program in Bolivia (the Project) was to reduce the infant and maternal mortality rates. During this phase,
the strategies used were: (i) to increase coverage and quality of health services, and to empower
communities to improve their health status; and (ii) to strengthen local capacity to respond to health needs.

The objective was clear, important to the country's social development, and realistic in scale and scope. It
was also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower, considering that Bolivia had high absolute
levels of infant mortality and, relative to its per capita income level, was one of the countries in the Latin
America and Caribbean region with the worst overall infant and child mortality rates. The Project was also
responsive to the needs of the Borrower. For example, it supported the implementation of legislation that
strengthened a new system for targeted health sector financing towards priority interventions, in line with
the sector's decentralized framework. Specifically, it supported: (i) the decree which fine-tuned the
structure and role of the Departmental Health Authorities and re-created Health Districts, within the
context set by the 1994 legislation that decentralized the health sector (Ley de Participación Popular and
Ley de Decentralización Administrativa); and (ii) the l999 decree of the Basic Health Insurance (Seguro
Básico de Salud, SBS) that expanded the coverage of the National Maternal-Child Insurance (Seguro
Nacional de Maternidad y Ninez, SNMN) and improved its payment mechanisms.

The Project was consistent with Bolivia's National Action Plan ­ the basis of Bolivia's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board on June 16, 1998 ­ which had poverty reduction as the centerpiece
of the Governments' development program up to the year 2002. The strategy for attaining this ultimate
goal was to implement actions within a framework of four pillars: opportunity, equity, institutional
strengthening and dignity.

In particular, the Project was expected to contribute to strengthening two of the CAS pillars: (i) equity, by
improving access to and quality of health services and by reorienting and improving the quality of public
health expenditures (through better targeting via the SBS); and (ii) opportunity, by introducing reforms that
would improve the return of investments in the creation of human capital. The health actions under the
equity pillar complemented activities in education, water and sanitation, and rural productivity described in
the CAS. The Project was also expected to directly contribute to improving one of the four variables that
constituted the CAS's Core Benchmarks (the infant mortality rate), and would indirectly contribute to the
other three core benchmarks (malnutrition, poverty and the poverty gap).

The project design reflected lessons learned ­ both in process and in contents ­ from international
interventions in countries with high mortality rates, from IDA's experience with the Bolivian health sector
(under the Integrated Health Development Project -Proyecto Integrado de Servicios Salud, PROISS) and
from the experience of other projects that were supporting the public health sector. In process, major
lessons learned that were taken into account included: (i) ownership of reforms and commitment by national
governments are key for success; (ii) countries with a weak capacity need support for program management
and procurement; (iii) projects should be simple to administer and to supervise, even more when the
institutional capacity is low; (iv) project objectives should be well defined and should be clear to all
involved; (v) there should be early agreement on and dissemination of results-based indicators to track the
project's performance; and (vi) successful implementation requires, among others, client orientation,
flexible management, and decentralization of decision making, financial resources and procurement
capabilities within clear operational plans with strong lines of communication.          Project design also



                                                      - 2 -

acknowledged lessons on contents, including: (i) effective immunization programs can have a significant
impact on child mortality rates, especially when the initial rate is very high, and (ii) other cost-effective
interventions, such as the Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI, Atención Integral de las
Enfermedades Prevalentes en la Infancia) and the Mother-Baby Package (MBP, Paquete
Materno-Neonatal) also can make an important contribution to improving the health status of children and
mothers.

The Project envisioned a series of social benefits that justified implementation on its own merits. These
included: (i) reduced likelihood of death and illness among children under five and mothers using public
health services, through the national implementation of the Expanded Program of Immunization (PAI), the
IMCI and the MBP; (ii) additional benefits from the PAI to approximately one third of the population
living in areas of high incidence of yellow fever and hepatitis B; (iii) health benefits to the population of
five departments that included about 80 percent of all mothers and children in the country, through specific
municipal health subprojects; (iv) strengthened local government capacity to respond to health needs
through increased effectiveness and efficiency of decentralized health service financing and delivery; and
(v) more effective use of public and (international) donor funds. In the long-term, welfare would improve
as a direct and indirect result of the reduction of mortality and burden of disease. In addition, project
benefits would be concentrated among the poor as (a) project interventions aimed to expand services
already available to the better-off (hence, the expansion would go primarily to those not yet served), and (b)
municipal subprojects would be targeted using a poverty index.

The Project was not very complex in terms of implementation, even though its design included a number of
innovative features. It was not overly demanding either, because its structure was fairly simple and the
Borrower had the corresponding technical and administrative capacity. Initial challenges involving actors
outside the direct control of the government included getting agreements from the nine Departmental Health
Authorities to sign the Performance Agreements with the Ministry of Health and from each of the 311
municipalities to earmark resources to finance the recurrent costs of the public health insurance (SBS).
Both challenges were met successfully and properly maintained through project implementation. [At the
Project's initiation, there were 311 municipalities in the country. Between 1999 and 2003, an additional 13
municipalities were created. These new municipalities were also brought into the same sector agreements.]

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project consisted of three components, all related to achieving the Project's objective. The Ministry of
Health (MOH) had sufficient technical, administrative and financial capacity for the successful
implementation of these components. Furthermore, in light of the substantial policy dialogue that was
taking place with the Government, the MOH was very much focused on the project objective. Following is
a description of each one of the Project's components.

Component I. Coverage and quality improvements of health services and empowerment of
communities (US$36.6 million: 83.2 percent of the total project cost).

(i). Support the implementation of a new medium term plan for immunizations that will: (a) create the
capacity to develop and implement immunization policies; (b) strengthen health services to improve
vaccination coverage and introduce new vaccines; and (c) strengthen the information and surveillance



                                                     - 3 -

systems for communicable diseases.

(ii). Implement new strategies for the IMCI and the MBP through: (a) strengthening program management
to plan, coordinate and supervise activities; (b) development of norms, protocols and supervision
instruments; (c) training of regional and local level staff; and (d) use of conventional and new mechanisms
to enhance two-way communications with indigenous populations.

(iii). Provide resources to finance demand-driven local subprojects to strengthen, inter alia, the quality of
maternal and child services, the development of social communication activities to strengthen the
information, voice and empowerment of beneficiaries, and the implementation of new instruments of health
sector management.

Component II. Strengthening local capacity to respond to health needs (US$5 million: 11.4 percent of
the total project cost).

(i). Support the implementation of the SBS through: (a) the creation of a unit to administer and modernize
the system; (b) developing and managing the corresponding information system; and (c) providing technical
assistance to municipalities.

(ii). Strengthen the development of the Health Management Information System (MIS) by: (a) supporting
the design and implementation of new modules related to the programs supported by the reform; and (b)
invigorating the analysis and use of MIS reports at the local level.

(iii). Strengthen the capacity and accountability of the health districts to manage and supervise the
implementation of project activities. This included the introduction of performance agreements that set
targets for key health indicators and assigned specific responsibilities and resources to achieve them.

Component III. Coordination, monitoring and evaluation (US$2.4 million: 5.4 percent of the total
project cost).

Finance the establishment and operation within the MOH of a management structure appropriate for the
coordination of all project activities and for monitoring and evaluation of project implementation in
accordance with the pre-defined performance benchmarks.

3.4 Revised Components:

Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the Project as
well conceived. As mentioned above, the project objective was consistent with the CAS and with the
Government's priorities and met the critical needs of Bolivia's health sector. With the technical support
from the MOH, the quality of project design was adequate to meet its overriding objective.

In addition, the project design incorporated a number of innovative features into the Credit Agreement,
including the following:




                                                     - 4 -

·       Benchmarks. The Project's Development Credit Agreement introduced an innovation to emphasize
        a results-oriented focus through implementation: it set out annual targets for eight performance
        benchmarks designed to measure the outcomes of key, project-supported health interventions aimed
        at reducing the infant and maternal mortality rates. Project success was defined in relation with
        annually reaching an agreed number of the targets set for these eight performance indicators. In
        case the Borrower did not reach these targets in at least five out of the eight benchmarks any given
        year, the Bank could take appropriate remedial measures, including the right to suspend
        disbursements and request a restructuring of the Project.

·       Performance Agreements. Starting in 1999, the Project supported the implementation of annual
        Performance Agreements (PA), setting targets on a series of process and outcome indicators for
        each of Bolivia's nine departments. These PAs are signed by the MOH and the Regional Health
        Director and are evaluated semi-annually by the MOH, with technical support from the Project.

·       Investment Mechanisms for the Health Sector. A Resource Allocation Mechanism (Mecanismo de
        Asignación de Recursos, MAR) was launched as a new investment scheme focusing on actions to
        reduce maternal and infant mortality. This was the instrument used to implement Project
        Component I-(iii). Its novel features, in comparison to previous investment schemes in the sector,
        were: (i) resource allocation was based on a weighted formula that took into account local human
        development indices (70 percent) and population (30 percent), thus prioritizing poorer
        municipalities; (ii) subproject definition involved the participation of all stakeholders (the
        community, the health sector and the municipality) in diagnostic assessments and in the setting of
        local priorities; and (iii) resource allocation was directed not only for strengthening the supply side,
        but also to subprojects designed to increase the demand for services.

Project preparation and design involved extensive stakeholder consultation and incorporation of lessons
learned from other projects in the health sector. Primary beneficiaries were consulted through focus
groups; satisfaction surveys were done among indigenous women in areas of high child mortality; and
communities, municipalities, departments, donors and NGOs were also consulted in numerous meetings.
Around 20 meetings were held in La Paz and participating departments. In these meetings, the objectives
and proposed procedures of the Project were discussed. These extensive stakeholder consultations and the
participatory process followed for project preparation substantially contributed to enhancing quality and
readiness at entry.

The Project recognized and took into account the risk factors that could affect implementation. These risks
and the appropriate measures incorporated into the project design to mitigate them included: (i)
deterioration of the macroeconomic and political situation that could compromise resources for the health
sector or decrease the government's presence in the sector. To mitigate this risk, the design of the SBS was
based on the earmarking of resources at the municipal level, thus protecting its financing from national
economic and political instability; (ii) insufficient coordination among Bolivian institutions to achieve a
holistic approach to health. Here, project design envisioned the SBS as an overarching coordination
framework into which all other national programs could feed, and promoted the PA as an instrument for
better coordination in planning, prioritization and results-monitoring among the various government levels;
and (iii) significant delays in national, departmental or municipal counterpart funds required for the
investment subprojects, hampering execution of this component. To mitigate this risk, the MAR instrument
anticipated careful planning of subproject implementation and fund flows, including required co-financing
from the sub-national levels.

During preparation, alternative project designs were considered:


                                                       - 5 -

(i) Lending Instrument. Both the Bank and the Government considered different lending options. As the
needs were large, while the option of an adjustment operation to introduce new reforms was also explored,
the option of a traditional investment operation was favored by the Government. An APL was preferred
because it was recognized that improving infant and maternal mortality would take time and that the health
sector would have to adapt to changes occurring throughout the rest of the government (e.g.
decentralization). In this context, an APL offered greater flexibility for implementation. In addition, the
immediate reforms sought by the Project required the willing participation of municipalities and, while
adjustment operations create incentives for the Central Government, they do not provide such for the
participation of local governments. Such incentives could be incorporated in an APL, specifically through
the MAR investments which were to give preferential access to reformers.

(ii) Front-loading of reforms. In addition to the issues covered by the APL, the health sector in Bolivia
presented other challenges, in particular those related to the operation of its social security entities and to
human resources management. The team considered the option of including policy activities to address
these areas, thus front-loading them on the reform agenda. However, this option was rejected for two
reasons. First, the Project already contained crucial reforms to address maternal and child mortality (for
example, establishment of the SBS, IMCI and MBP, and introduction of PA) and overloading the Project
could distract attention and effort from them. Second, reforms in social security and human resources
areas are "second generation" reforms; it was concluded that they would be better dealt with under future
phases of the program.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory.   The Project succeeded in introducing an ambitious set of policies and interventions to
improve the performance of the public health services. In particular, it introduced policies and instruments
conducive to better infant and maternal health status, including the expanded infant and maternal public
insurance scheme, the performance agreements, prioritized investment subprojects via MAR and the
strengthening of cost-effective health interventions (including the PAI, IMCI and MBP). Likewise, it
increased the participation of municipalities in health care delivery throughout the country, by earmarking
to the SBS a significant fraction of the resources transferred from the national government to the municipal
authorities and making explicit the responsibilities of the latter in health.

As a result of this effort, as shown in Section 4.1.B, important intermediate and outcome indicators for
infant and maternal health experienced significant improvements, most exceeding the targets initially
defined. Overall, the Project contributed to significant advances in reducing the infant mortality rate in the
country from its baseline of 67 deaths per 1,000 live births (1998 DHS) to the APL-I target set for 2001 at
60 deaths per 1,000 live births. Furthermore, preliminary results from the 2003 DHS ­ financed by the
ongoing APL-II Health Reform Project ­ suggest that an even greater improvement took place, as the
infant mortality rate is now estimated at 54 per 1,000.

A national 2001 post-census survey on maternal mortality financed by the Project estimated a maternal
mortality rate of 234 deaths per 100,000 live births in 2001, compared with the 1994 DHS estimate of 390
deaths per 100,000. However, these two estimates come from different methodologies and are not directly
comparable. Therefore, final data from the 2003 DHS (which included a maternal mortality module) must
be used for analyzing the trend. [The 1998 DHS, unfortunately, did not include a maternal mortality
module that would allow for better trend analysis.]



                                                     - 6 -

Major project outcomes and achievements are as follows:

(A). Basic Health Insurance and Other Core Policies.

The Project succeeded in establishing the SBS, a public financing scheme for priority health interventions
for infants, pregnant women and women in childbearing ages. The SBS expanded and improved the
National Maternal and Child Insurance program (SNMN) created in 1996. The SBS was a system by
which municipalities earmarked 5.4 percent of the tax revenues transferred to them by the Central
Government to finance 90 cost-effective priority interventions for the targeted group. This scheme was
particularly important in reducing the economic barrier of access to health services, considered to be highly
relevant in Bolivia, where only about 30-35 percent of the population has access to social security or
private health insurance.     The majority of the population, mainly the poor and rural inhabitants,
traditionally had to pay user fees for health services, even in public facilities.

Major features of the SBS included: (i) participation of all of the country's municipalities; (ii) development
of standard care protocols for interventions included in the benefits package; (iii) strengthening of
administrative and financial control systems; (iv) articulation with non-public providers; (v) emphasis on
indigenous issues; and (vi) implementation of focused actions to improve quality of maternal and child
services. In addition, the SBS provided an overarching scheme under which different national programs
(e.g. the PAI) and service delivery strategies (e.g. IMCI and MBP) were standardized and implemented.
The SBS was regulated by the MOH, which established the priority interventions to be financed, set the
rate of reimbursement to cover recurrent costs, and managed the information system.

The contribution of the SBS in increasing coverage of priority maternal and child services is reflected in the
increased coverage observed in core indicators, such as skilled birth attendance, fourth prenatal control,
immunization coverage, and ambulatory child visits, as detailed in the next section.

In addition, the SBS achieved significant institutional progress, as reflected by the fact that, in late 2002,
the incoming national government decided to expand this policy and launch the Universal Maternal and
Child Health Insurance (Seguro Universal Materno-Infantil, SUMI), this time through the enactment of a
national law. This change also implied a gradual increase in the resources earmarked for the insurance at
the municipal level, to reach up to 10 percent of the transfers at the end of a four-year period. At the same
time, the management of this public insurance initiative was transferred to the MOH line staff, shifting (in
2003) the Project's contribution towards areas of operational urgency and technical assistance. The
APL-II has taken this relation to the next step that will ensure that project support is focused on strategic
areas of technical assistance key to improve the design and implementation of the SUMI, including
monitoring and evaluation, and financial control.

As a complementary action to the SBS, the Project also supported the nation-wide implementation of
Performance Agreements as a new management instrument to align efforts at all government levels towards
key health outcomes. The implementation of the MAR investment mechanism for promoting maternal and
child interventions in five selected departments gave additional means and incentives for the municipalities
to achieve the targets agreed upon at the local level. Both instruments (the performance agreements and the
MAR investments) are being continued through the APL-II.




                                                      - 7 -

(B). Key Performance Indicators

Table 1 presents the eight key health indicators and their corresponding annual targets defined to monitor
progress in achieving the Project's overall objective. In six out of the eight indicators, the Project exceeded
the targets every single year between 1999 and 2002, and for another indicator only failed to meet the
target in one year. Overall, there was substantial progress in the coverage of priority health interventions
and over compliance with project targets.

                            Table 1 ­ The Project's Monitoring Indicators and Targets
     Achieved Coverage (Target)                              1998      1999     2000     2001     2002
     1. Percentage of births attended by Achieved Coverage 42%         47%      52%      54%      54%
     trained health personnel              APL-1 Targets     36%       38%      40%      43%      46%
     2. Women with complete cycle of Achieved Coverage 30%             31%      33%      36%      34%
     antenatal care visits                 APL-1 Targets     28%       30%      32%      36%      40%
     3. Early neonatal hospital mortality Achieved Coverage 9          7        9        7        7
     (per 1,000 live births)               APL-1 Targets     14        14       13       12       11
     4. Number of pneumonia cases in Achieved Coverage 81,462          91,554   112,154 122,743 128,244
     children under 5, attended in health APL-1  Targets     68346     85000    95000    105000 115000
     services
     5. Number of acute diarrhea diseases Achieved Coverage 337,123 372,986 450,772 426,697
     in children under 5, attended in APL-1      Targets     292417    310000 340000 370000 400000
     health services
     6. Third doses of DPT/Hib/Hepatitis Achieved Coverage 77%         85%      89%      92%      100%
     B vaccines                            APL-1 Targets     75%       82%      65%      75%      85%
     7. Number of municipalities with Achieved Coverage 171            135      66       118      53
     DPT/Hib/Hepatitis      B     vaccine APL-1  Targets     212       200      180      119      83
     coverage below 80 percent
     8. National financing of vaccines (in Achieved Coverage 0.5       1.9      4.0      2.0      3.3
     millions of US $)                     APL-1 Targets     0.5       2.5      3.0      3.5      4.0


Source: The Project Coordination Unit (MOH) based on different information systems.

(i) Coverage of births attended by trained health personnel. With a baseline of 36 percent for 1996-98,
the Project set a target of 43 percent for 2001, based on the information provided by the National Health
Information System (Sistema Nacional de Información en Salud, SNIS). The initial trend in this indicator
was one of the most successful: by end-2000, coverage had already reached 52 percent, exceeding the
targets for 2001 and 2002. Progress was maintained at 54 percent between 2001 and 2002, as suggested
by administrative data. The 2003 DHS preliminary results ratify this level of attainment for the 1999-2002
period, estimating skilled birth attendance in the country at 55 percent.

(ii) Complete prenatal care attendance. This indicator measures the number of women who, after having a
first prenatal contact, go on to complete the recommended prenatal control scheme (minimum of 4 visits).
It is regarded as an important measure of quality of care because it enables risk identification and reduction
of complications associated with deliveries, as well as guaranteeing that mothers have access to family
planning information and nutrition education (provided that consultations follow the respective protocols).
The baseline for this indicator was low (28 percent). Targets were met every year until 2001, when the
percentage of complete prenatal controls reached 36 percent. However, it then dropped slightly to 34
percent in 2002. This trend is consistent with that observed for skilled birth attendance, in that there was
fast progress between 1998 and 2001, and the attained level was maintained thereafter.



                                                       - 8 -

(iii) Early neonatal hospital mortality. This variable measures the number of deaths during the first seven
days of life per 1,000 live births reported in all secondary and tertiary level hospitals in the country. The
reporting system did not exist prior to the Project and was created to monitor progress in this variable. The
mortality baseline was high, and because no major direct interventions were planned in high complexity
hospitals during this program's phase, a modest target was established. This indicator was included to
pave the way for the APL-II by providing incentives for the government to monitor this variable. The
added attention paid off, as hospitals themselves rapidly reacted by establishing simple but important
improvements in the management of newborns. Targets were met every year from 1998 to 2002.

(iv) Number of child pneumonia cases attended in health services. Pneumonia is an important cause of
child mortality in Bolivia. Monitoring this indicator is thus key to assess progress towards reducing child
mortality. It was set in absolute numbers (instead of a percentage) to avoid controversies about the actual
number of children with pneumonia (which would have served as the denominator but is difficult to
estimate). However, the chosen definition also has limitations, as the total number of pneumonias may vary
due to factors outside the control of the health sector. Following a slow start in 1999, the MOH boosted
efforts to improve this indicator by raising the rate of reimbursements paid by the SBS for attending
pneumonia cases, improving the availability of antibiotics, and training personnel in the IMCI strategy.
Targets were met every year from 1998 to 2002. The number of child pneumonia cases attended increased
from 81,462 in 1998 to 128,244 in 2002.

(v) Number of child diarrhea cases attended in health services. As with pneumonia, acute diarrhea is an
important determinant of morbidity and mortality among children under five, accounting for almost 15
percent of child mortality in Bolivia. Targets here were met every year from 1998 to 2001. The number of
cases attended in health services increased from 337,123 in 1998 to over 450,000 in 2000, dropping again
after that. As with the pneumonia indicator, interpretation needs to be done carefully. While this drop may
be due to a decrease in coverage, it could also result from an improvement in living conditions and
education of mothers, and thus evidence a decrease in the incidence of diarrhea diseases. This decrease
over time is a desirable result in view of reducing infant mortality. But, given that this indicator does not
enable to measure progress adequately, it was decided in 2002 to replace it with the percent of children
under 5 who have received three doses of iron. This commitment was formalized as part of the APL-II
performance indicators.

(vi) Immunization coverage. The immunization coverage, based on administrative data from the SNIS,
increased significantly from a baseline of 77 percent in 1998 to almost 100 percent in 2002, reflecting an
apparent success of the PAI program. Targets were met every year from 1998 to 2002. In addition, in the
year 2000 with support from the Project, the DPT vaccine was replaced at the national level by the
pentavalent vaccine (including DPT, Hepatitis B and Haemophilus influenza type B), which is why new
targets were set at lower levels starting that year. The change in vaccines did not appear to set back
national coverage rates.      Results from the 2003 DHS, although not comparable with the SNIS
administrative data, also suggest a significant increase in immunization coverage rates in the country
during the Project's period, increasing from 48.6 percent in 1998 to 71.5 percent in 2003.

(vii) Number of municipalities with third-dose DPT coverage less than 80 percent. This is an important
indicator of equity in immunization coverage and complements the previous one. Even when average
national coverage levels are high, these may hide pockets of very low coverage which could be the source
of outbreaks. This indicator measures the success of the PAI in eliminating these pockets of low coverage
by reaching out to areas that, generally, have low access to health services and high poverty levels. In this
indicator, targets were met in all years since 1999 and, by 2002, only 53 municipalities (mostly with very


                                                     - 9 -

low populations) remained with DPT coverage levels below 80 percent.

(viii) Financing of vaccines by the Borrower.              This indicator was set to measure the national
Government's effort in sustaining stable financing of the PAI. The national financing of vaccines only
reached the set goal in 2000. In all other years, financing from the national treasury fell short from the
target (by 76, 57 and 82 percent of programmed budget, respectively) and vaccines were mainly financed
by international donors, with irregular timing and a potential negative effect on the Program. With the
support of the APL-II and other Bank adjustment operations, alternative strategies are being explored to
resolve this problem of sustainable and regular funding for PAI.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component I. Coverage and quality improvements of the health services and empowerment of
communities.

(a). Support the implementation of a new medium term plan for immunizations. The Project supported
the strengthening of the PAI, in close coordination with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO).
This included support for the introduction of the new pentavalent vaccine and vaccination campaigns,
prioritized investments in equipment and infrastructure for the cold chain and storage of vaccines, and
training for monitoring and evaluation. Between 1999 and 2001, total funding from the Project for PAI
reached approximately US$2.5 million. A parallel, complementary improvement in the surveillance and
information systems for communicable diseases in the country (known as the "epidemiological shield")
was launched by the MOH with support from the Inter American Development Bank (IDB).

(b). Implement new strategies for the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness and for the
Mother-Baby Package. The Project supported the design and implementation of norms and protocols for
the IMCI (developed by PAHO and UNICEF) and the MBP strategies. Training of health personnel on
these protocols was provided, as well as management instruments for supervising progress made. Specific
activities supported by the Project under this objective included:
·        adaptation of clinical and consumer-oriented texts in accordance with the epidemiologic and
         cultural reality of the country, to be used as training material for implementation of the IMCI;
·        creation of 17 IMCI training centers, decentralizing staff training throughout the country;
·        training of 1,784 healthcare staff, most of them from primary health care centers, to improve their
         clinical skills and quality of services delivered to children under 5; and
·        support for and organization of an interagency committee for the IMCI initiative (including
         bilaterals and other international financing agencies), responsible for the unification of criteria and
         actions in this   field.

(c). Provide resources to finance demand-driven local subprojects to strengthen, inter alia, the quality of
maternal and child services, the development of social communication activities to strengthen the
information, voice and empowerment of beneficiaries, and the implementation of new instruments of
health sector management.            The MAR investment mechanism co-financed medical equipment,
infrastructure and training in 311 subprojects in the five participating departments (La Paz, Oruro,
Cochabamba, Chuquisaca and Santa Cruz, representing over 80 percent of the total population). Required
counterpart funds by participating municipalities ranged between 20 to 35 percent of the total cost. A low
level of interest by municipal governments in training led to a reassignment of funds to the equipment and
infrastructure categories.

Complementing this investment effort at the local level, the Project (a) helped the MOH design a planning


                                                       - 10 -

instrument for sector investments; and (b) supported efforts to promote an intercultural approach in health,
including the design of the Pregnant Women's Rights Charter ("Carta de Derechos de la Mujer
Embarazada"), the adaptation of specific features of the SBS to respond to indigenous groups, and the
signing of agreements with the two leading indigenous organizations to facilitate their participation in the
SBS and other project activities.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component II. Strengthening local capacity to respond to health needs.

(a). Supporting the implementation of the SBS.           The Project was determinant in the design and
implementation of the SBS, which was later on transformed into the SUMI and now reaches roughly one
third of the country's population.       This collaboration included provision of technical assistance to
participating municipalities in their role in implementing the insurance, design of contract mechanisms to be
used with NGOs and other private providers, and support for the conformation of a central management
unit with much needed information systems. See section 4.1 for more details on the progress made.

(b). Strengthening the development of the management information system.              The Project supported
individual actions to improve the SNIS through the purchase of hardware and software, the design of
internet links and funding for the creation and functioning of information analysis committees at the local
level. Leadership in the development of the health sector information systems was taken by an IDB loan
focused on the SNIS, but progress here was slower than expected. As a result, the SNIS today is still in
need of further reforms and improvement.

(c). Strengthening the capacity and accountability of the health districts to manage and supervise the
implementation of project activities. The health reform in Bolivia during the nineties was mainly based on
the pillars of decentralization and equity, seeking to improve quality and expand coverage of health services
to the poor and rural areas.      Since 1998, the Project supported the signing of annual performance
agreements in all nine departments. These PAs are based on process and outcome indicators. The Project
also supported bi-annual evaluations of progress made in these agreements. These regular evaluations were
complemented in 2001 by an overall evaluation led by PAHO, that contributed to strengthening this
instrument. In the coming years, the MOH expects to use PA at the municipal level.

To complement this results-oriented effort at the departmental level, the Project supported the evaluation of
second and third-level public hospitals during 2001 and 2002. This evaluation led to pilot experiences with
performance agreements with third level hospitals in the municipalities of Santa Cruz and El Alto.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component III. Coordination, monitoring and evaluation.

This component financed the functioning of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), including the purchase of
equipment, materials and supplies for its day to day activities. In addition, it financed a 2001 post-census
national survey on maternal mortality (through an inter-institutional agreement between the National
Institute of Statistic (INE) and the MOH), which provided preliminary estimates on the progress made in
the reduction of maternal mortality (see Section 4.1). Likewise, it supported the realization of Health
National Accounts for Bolivia. Other detailed actions supported here included the following:
·        the PCU procured six audits of the Project Financial Statements, including the Project Preparation



                                                     - 11 -

        Fund (PPF). These financial audits provided feedback on the Project's financial management
        processes which led to the implementation of improvement plans and the strengthening of internal
        controls;
·       a procurement audit was contracted in 2002. The results identified opportunities to strengthen the
        procurement unit and improve the maintenance and control of relevant documentation; and
·       specific evaluations were conducted in some core technical areas, including (i) an evaluation of the
        SBS, (ii) special audits of the Compensatory Health Fund of the SBS in different municipalities,
        and (iii) medical audits for specific cases in second-level hospitals.

Finally, the PCU also focused on staff capacity building throughout project implementation. Training of
staff contributed to the design of health care policies in relevant areas such as payment systems and
contractual arrangements, decentralization, cost analysis, public insurance and health economics (including
health accounts).

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

High. The Project resulted in a high institutional development impact, as demonstrated by the following
achievements:

·       The Project was instrumental in establishing the SBS, which was later expanded and transformed
        into SUMI by the incoming administration. The development and launching of this public
        insurance scheme has had a sustained impact on the role municipalities play in the health sector
        and on public providers. In addition, the establishment of an explicit package of services
        free-of-charge for the population increased the awareness of the public on health issues and on
        their rights to access health services. Increased access to basic maternal and child services
        followed.

·       The implementation of PAs changed the logic of interaction and planning in the health sector
        between the national level and the departments, introducing a results-based focus that has started to
        replace the traditional sector emphasis on inputs. The departments agreed on important objectives
        for annual programs, on measuring key indicators related to health outcomes, and on monitoring
        progress made in that direction. This effort, sustained throughout the Project's cycle, had never
        been done before in the country and is soon expected to reach the municipal level.

·       The Project significantly strengthened the PAI, which was a key component as evidenced by the
        fact that three out of the eight performance indicators were related to immunization. Furthermore,
        the partnership among the Government, the World Bank and PAHO created a momentum for
        improving the policy environment and effectiveness of Bolivia's national immunization program.
        Evidence of this is that tools and methodologies of Bolivia's PAI are now being utilized to improve



                                                     - 12 -

         national immunization programs at the global level. [The Global Alliance for Vaccines and
         Immunization (GAVI) has incorporated several tools and methodologies developed by PAHO
         together with the Bolivia PAI into its guidelines for funding requests for its Children's Vaccine
         Fund. These include the methodology for evaluating a national immunization program; annual and
         five-year action plans; inter-agency coordinating committees; rapid monitoring of vaccination
         coverage rates; supervision plans at the local level, and the establishment of rapid responses to
         emergencies.] The financial sustainability of the PAI remains a challenge that needs to be
         addressed in order to avoid backtracking in coverage rates in the second phase of the program.
         This issue is being considered through other ongoing operations in the country, reflecting the
         awareness level it has already gained.

·        The Project helped to build capacity within the MOH by integrating technical staff in the PCU with
         different line units in the MOH. Initially, the PCU functioned as an independent unit. Later on, it
         was integrated into the MOH's General Direction for Health Services, leading to better
         coordination among project staff and the MOH's other units. For example, the Project created the
         Quality Observatory for quality of health service delivery, which strengthened the MOH's capacity
         in this area. Similarly, a team of health economists in the PCU continuously collaborated with
         staff in other units of the MOH, providing support to the consolidation of national health accounts
         and the inclusion of a stronger economic perspective in the decision-making process in the health
         sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Donor coordination. Initially, the international donors ­ highly relevant in Bolivia ­ were skeptical of the
SBS and the Performance Agreements. However, after one year of implementation, they were convinced
with the benefits of these policies and the ownership from government. As a result, the Project received
significant support and assistance from them. For example, the Department for International Devleopment
(DFID) and the Canadian Cooperation planned their projects within the framework of the MOH policies
supported by the Project and in close coordination with the PCU.

The excellent coordination between PAHO and the Bank in the immunization program was another positive
factor which helped project implementation. While the Bank relied on PAHO for technical know-how and
on-the-ground presence, PAHO relied on the Bank for the policy dialogue with the government on the
financial aspects of the immunization program within a stringent fiscal and economic scenario. This
partnership contributed to secure financing of vaccines, despite constraints in availability of national
treasury funds.

Political unrest in 2003. The implementation of the Project progressed relatively well until the end of
2002. During its last year of implementation (2003), intense political and social unrest in the country
culminated in October with the toppling of the national government. As can be expected, this affected the
Project's implementation dynamics. In particular, conflicting messages regarding central government
policies (e.g. decentralization and the public health insurance), intense political patronage and high turnover
of staff, and serious fiscal constraints at the national and sub-national levels affected the PCU's technical
and managerial capacities, its articulation with the MOH, and its implementation pace.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:




                                                      - 13 -

Collaboration with the government. For most of the Project's time-span, good collaboration between the
Government and the Bank enabled the PCU to hire high-quality professionals available in the country, and
also to prevent the use of project finance as a slush fund by the political parties.

Frequent change of administration and political interference with managerial decisions. During the
four-year implementation period, the national administration changed four times and the Minister of Health
changed five times. High rotation of staff took place at the MOH, the PCU, and the sub-national levels,
especially during the last part of the Project's implementation. On different occasions, a highly politicized
environment placed project activities, especially the MAR infrastructure component, at risk of being
politicized and derailed. The transition from the FIS to the Fondo de Inversion Productiva y Social (FPS),
with internal changes in management and structure on the FIS side, further delayed implementation of this
component. The PCU was also weakened because of this interference and turnover (especially during
2003), and remedial actions needed to be identified and agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.

Economic downturn. The social unrest of February and October 2003 contributed to the deterioration of
the macroeconomic and political conditions in the country, which in turn led to cuts in the operational
budget of the MOH. The slowness in the provision of municipal counterpart funds to subprojects approved
under the MAR component, compounded sometimes by slowness on the FPS side, weakened the ability of
firms to provide guarantees for contracts on a timely basis. However, most Project activities had been
implemented by that time. The ongoing effects of this economic, fiscal and political scenario is being
addressed under the APL-II.

Counterpart funding. The financing of the PAI was frequently affected by lack of national counterpart
funding. In addition, the MOH had a significant debt pending with the vaccines fund administered by
PAHO. Because of this, in July 2003, Bolivia was not able to order vaccines and syringes, causing a stock
deficit for yellow fever, DPT and BCG, and a shortage of polio and pentavalent vaccines that placed
coverage rates at risk, and required additional Bank support. The implementation of the MAR component
also faced delays, mainly due to lack of adequate counterpart funds for the subprojects from departments
and municipalities.

Lack of capacity at the local and regional levels. Some of the Regional Health Administrations (SEDES)
were institutionally weak, including few technical staff and a limited budget (especially in the case of the
departments of Beni and Pando). This hampered implementation and weakened monitoring of policies at
the local level. The PCU had to intervene to fill in these gaps, appointing regional personnel and increasing
direct supervision at the local level in these places, raising administrative costs but preserving management
capacity over project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementation of the "Sistema Integrado de Gestión y Modernización Administrativa" (SIGMA),
applied by the central government throughout the public administration since December 2002, led to delays
in project execution, mainly due to pending issues in the installation of the financing system in the PCU and
the implementation of rotatory funds at the regional (departmental) level. However, as with other negative
factors affecting project implementation, the effects on this APL-I were minor (as project activities were
mostly being concluded by then) and corrective actions are being discussed within the APL-II
implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:




                                                      - 14 -

The total cost of the Project, as estimated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), was US$44 million,
out of which US$25 million (56.8 percent) was funded through the Bank's credit and the remaining US$19
million (43.2 percent) through the National Treasury and local (municipal) funds. About US$1 million of
the committed funds (2.5 percent of the total cost and 4 percent of the Credit) remained undisbursed at the
time of writing this ICR and are being cancelled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Highly Likely. The sustainability of the Project is rated as highly likely, given the progress made in
institutionalizing most of the policies supported through this APL-I.

The Government is committed to continue its support to the sector both financially and in important policy
reforms through the ongoing implementation of a second phase of the program. Despite four changes of
national government, the infant and maternal health issues remain a top priority in the government's
agenda. Some of the policy reforms supported by the Project, so far also backed by the incoming
administration, seem sufficiently strong to resist any backtracking attempts. Such is the case, for example,
of the public health insurance, now an integral feature of the Bolivian health system, with the population
aware of and demanding their right to free, effective maternal and child services. Considering the current
relevance of the SUMI and the fact that with enhanced HIPC resources municipalities are likely to receive
approximately 50 percent more funds over the next 15 years than what they are receiving today, continued
financing for the public insurance is also likely. Lastly, the APL-II, that started implementation during the
last year of the APL-I, aims at the same development objectives and includes in its design components that
give continuity and further expand the APL-I, thus strengthening its sustainability.

Performance Agreements will require close vigilance from all interested parties. The clear message from
the international donors community on the need to focus on results will contribute not only to its
sustainability but also to its strengthening. This emphasis is compounded with the government's expression
of interest in attaining the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) and using concrete targets to monitor
progress in the framework of its Poverty Reduction Strategy. A recently conformed multisectoral "MDG
Committee," led by the Unit for the Analysis of Economic and Social Policies (UDAPE), most likely will
build on the health performance agreements experience to further monitor results in other social sectors.

On immunizations, the infrastructure and managerial capacity of the PAI has been strengthened based on
best practices and receives ongoing technical support from PAHO, improving its sustainability. The
financing aspect of PAI within the ongoing fiscal and economic crisis is being addressed both through the
second phase of the health program and the policy dialogue involving other Bank adjustment operations
(e.g. through the proposed Social Sectors Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Section 6.1 explains the transition arrangement to regular operations. In addition, there has been a careful
transition from the APL-I to the APL-II, that not only allows for continuity of core policies but further
strengthens their sustainability within regular health sector operations. Such is the case of the PAI (defined
as a national priority program with recurrent costs to be financed through a mix of internal funds and
international donations), the SUMI (elevated to the category of national law, including all municipalities
and defining a gradual increase in financing), and the PAs (now being discussed to be implemented at the
municipal levels). In addition, the APL-II will continue monitoring progress using the same indicators of



                                                     - 15 -

the first phase, with only one minor change identified so far ­ that is, the replacement of the indicator on
child diarrhea cases attended for one on the intake of iron sulfate among children.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the Project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in
Bolivia's health sector, by (i) identifying and targeting interventions towards the main causes of maternal
and child mortality; and (ii) building on previous policies (e.g. SNMN and the decentralization law) and
improving them. The Project's consistency with the Government's development priorities and the Bank's
CAS was assured.       In addition, the Bank acknowledged sociological aspects and local issues while
designing the project. With a team comprised of proper skill mix, it brought in state-of-the-art expertise
into project design, providing for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional (including procurement and
financial management). In addition, during appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.
The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Extensive stakeholder consultations at community, municipal, departmental and national levels
was highly productive, and initiated a process of ownership that proved highly valuable at the
implementation stage.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory.    The Bank's performance during the implementation of the Project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated and the Project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the four years of project implementation, there were seven supervision missions, with an
average of about two missions per year. This frequency was increased during the year 2003, which was
particularly difficult given the political and economic context, through parallel missions related to other
projects in the country where discussions of critical health issues were also included. The Bank's client
relationship was cordial and productive, and the Bank continued to have a high quality policy dialogue with
the Government, which was demonstrated during implementation. Review teams included specialists in
public health, human development, health economics, financial management, and procurement. The Bank's
partnership with donors, especially with PAHO, was highly productive. External consultants were used to
provide support to specific aspects of project components, including the strengthening of primary health
care, the design and implementation of the public insurance and the adequacy of health services to
indigenous peoples. Participation of national, departmental and municipal representatives in the review
missions enhanced Bank-Borrower bonding, better understanding and expeditious resolution of
implementation bottlenecks. This also fostered mutual learning on institutional and field issues, and
strengthened the implementing agencies in technical matters and Bank procedures.

Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared, signed and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and
underscoring benchmarks for actions. These alerted the Government and the implementing agencies to
problems with project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank
procedures. The Project Status Reports realistically rated the performance of the Project both in terms of
achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in implementation
occurred, the Bank's task team was able to define concrete steps and a timetable for putting the Project


                                                      - 16 -

back on track and pace. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the Project's likely development impact. The
quality of advice and the follow-up on agreed actions were adequate. Credit covenants and remedies were
enforced effectively. During the early stages of project implementation, the Bank conducted workshops for
training of Borrower's staff in the areas of financial management, disbursements and procurement.

With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Resident Mission in Bolivia, the Bank was able to
provide better response and follow-up to the Borrower. The local support proved to be highly effective in
improving the rhythm of response to the client, other interested stakeholders (including the international
donor community) and project implementation. Local staff worked closely with the Government and the
implementing agencies at all levels, and provided them with extensive assistance in the areas of technical
contents, financial management and procurement. Changes of Bank staff responsible for supervising the
Project did not seem to affect project implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during Project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory.   The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the Project was satisfactory.         The
Borrower displayed the required level of commitment to project objectives and covered the adequacy of
design on all major aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological (including stakeholder consultations and commitment). The Borrower gave high priority to the
Project in the context of the CAS discussions; for example, it approved two supreme decrees setting the
legal stage needed for project implementation.         The MOH had put together a strong team for the
implementation of the Project. The Ministry of Finance had made a firm commitment to increase financing
for vaccines and to open a budget line to make this financing transparent. The FIS had also assigned
strong counterparts and had shown flexibility to deal with project preparation needs. Health authorities
from five departments had shown great interest to participate in the Project by organizing workshops and
preparing project implementation plans. Three of the departmental authorities had also expressed their
support to the Project in written correspondence, already assigning counterpart funds for the 1999 fiscal
year.

The government officials and staff of the implementing agencies at the central, regional, and local levels
worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. It consistently maintained
its commitment throughout the implementation of the Project. The MOH, responsible for the overall
implementation, was responsive to take corrective measures and effective in dealing with outstanding
operational issues as implementation progressed. Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually
in place, financial accountability and follow-up was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized
before they were incurred. Project documentation was maintained properly for periodic review. Annual
external audits gave favorable conclusions on project management.

The latest part of project implementation, especially in 2003, was hampered by different factors.



                                                     - 17 -

Counterpart funding problems affected the financing of vaccines. The economic constraints were such that
the national government was not able to hold appropriate budget provisions. Throughout 2003, political
interference with technical and managerial decisions within the Project also became an issue that had to be
addressed. The PCU personnel changed, as did some of the key policies supported by the Project (the SBS
was converted into the SUMI, and the health districts were transformed into Local Health Boards),
eventually leading to implementation problems and/or delays. Finally, the political events of October 2003
added further obstacles to project implementation, mostly affecting the second phase of the reform
program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of the PCU was, overall, satisfactory. It was well organized and effective in
dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and monitoring of indicators, and in maintaining
proper records of the Project. It was receptive to the Bank's advice and highly collaborative with respect to
meeting demanding benchmarks and deadlines. As pointed out above, during the last year of project
implementation, it suffered the weakening effects of political interference and high instability, both on the
administrative and technical areas.

Performance of the FIS/FPS in the implementation of the MAR infrastructure component was partially
satisfactory. The FIS arrangement for channeling prioritized investments for infant and maternal services
at the municipal level confronted important internal and external obstacles, in particular during the
2001­2002 period. External issues mainly originated in the structure and incentives of the National
Compensation Policy. Internal difficulties included high levels of staff rotation, inadequate planning and
programming of key activities, and slow processing of the demand-driven requests. These issues affected
the Project's implementation pace and created, later on, problems in the preparation of withdrawal
applications. Externally, the MAR mechanism was mainly confronted by problems with municipal counter
funds, further delaying many of the works, and political interference. Delays in project implementation
resulting from the above factors led to an extension of one year of the Project closing date (2003) to
complete the MAR infrastructure and equipment component. Fortunately, most of the constraints were
surpassed during this last year of implementation, and the MAR component was finally able to execute
over 95 percent of its assigned budget.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

·    Developing a results-oriented culture.       The use of well-defined indicators linked to expected
     outcomes and agreed ex-ante with the Borrower serves an important dual purpose. First, it helps
     improve project design and implementation by ensuring focus and aligning interventions towards the
     achievement of a set of clear benchmarks. Second, it helps the PCU, local governments and the MOH
     to center their policy dialogue on specific actions for achieving these pre-agreed results. The APL-I
     suggests that, for the successful introduction of such a results-oriented culture, several conditions need
     to be in place:

       (i) Policy instruments are needed to bring the nationally agreed targets to the operational level.
           This is where the PAs played an important role in this project. Their use ensured that the
           regions aligned their health priorities with the MOH. The APL-I experience suggests that



                                                    - 18 -

          indicators need to be: (a) only a few to avoid loss of focus, (b) monitored using a consistent
          methodology, and (c) available on a periodic basis to allow for implementation of corrective
          actions.

     (ii) Incentives. The APL-I showed that the implementation of the PA must be accompanied by
          sufficient incentives at the national and regional levels to comply with the set targets and sustain
          the level of effort and interest. At the national level, one such incentive was making these
          benchmarks legally binding under the Credit Agreement, with a provision for remedial measures
          such as suspending disbursements in case the Borrower did not meet the targets. This
          innovative feature created the right environment and incentive for the national government and
          PCU team to focus on meeting the targets and achieving the desired outcomes. This setup could
          be further improved by developing an appropriate formula and remedial measures to avoid the
          possibility that one or more of the indicators are not consistently met, even though the Borrower
          has consistently met five out of the eight indicators, as required under the Credit Agreement.
          Likewise, at the regional level, the Project's experience suggests that the absence of such an
          incentive (for the departments) could explain the observed weak compliance with the targets set
          in some specific regions.

     (iii)The means to reach the targets. The APL-I suggests that the health sector must have the
          appropriate means to reach the agreed upon targets. For the APL-I, these included the SBS, the
          PAI, the IMCI and the MBP. These set of policies served health service providers as the right
          instruments to increase demand and coverage with quality, according to the targets set in the
          performance agreements.

· Taking into account the cultural barriers created by ethnic diversity. Cultural diversity remains one
  of the greatest challenges for improved health among the poor in Bolivia. The Project began to bridge
  the cultural barrier with the use of specific activities (e.g. focus groups on maternal health services
  with indigenous women, dialogue with indigenous organizations, and pilot experiences culturally
  adapting services to indigenous needs). These activities need to be developed in greater depth and their
  scope increased to progress further in bridging the cultural gap.

· Developing partnerships. While reaching a strong consensus with donors was difficult in the initial
  stages, ultimately this partnership turned out to be very useful for the success of the Project. For
  example, the national immunization program was successfully revamped due to a strong partnership
  established with PAHO. PAHO provided technical support for the Government and the Bank
  emphasized the financial and institutional aspects. This partnership was sustained during the whole
  period of project preparation and implementation. Similar efforts could strengthen impact in other
  project areas and are worth being started and secured as much as possible in the initial phases of
  project discussion and design.

· A focused and gradual approach. The Project focused on a few priority activities and emphasized
  capacity building, recognizing the multiplicity of needs and the limits of institutional response
  converging in the health sector. This approach allowed to avoid overburdening the limited capacity of
  participating institutions, while addressing a national top priority such as infant and maternal mortality.
  Being an APL, gradual complexity may be built into the agenda under the second phase of the
  Program, for example developing innovative supply and demand side arrangements that complement
  the public insurance scheme in overcoming barriers to access, or reaching for better articulation with
  the social security.



                                                    - 19 -

·   Avoiding system failures. Although focusing on relevant outcomes such as reduced infant mortality
    and maternal mortality is important, it is equally important to acknowledge and avoid system failures.
    For example, the Project should ensure that, while making progress in meeting outcome targets, its
    progress on infant and maternal health status cannot be fully de-linked from the need for institutional
    strengthening or from more broad system improvements such as accountability, information and
    monitoring systems, and financial flows.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    Following is the translation of the comments by the Borrower to this ICR (May 11, 2004). The
    original comments in Spanish are also included in Annex 8.           In addition, the Borrower did an
    Evaluation Report at Project closure shared with the Bank during the ICR preparation stage (March
    15, 2003). An executive summary of this Report is presented in Annex 9. The complete final report of
    this evaluation is available upon request.

                                   Borrower's Comments - Translation


    Ministry of Health and Sports
    Bolivia
                                                                                   La Paz, May 11, 2004
                                                                                    CITE:MSD/0589/004

    Mr. Juan Pablo Uribe
    Senior Health Specialist
    Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
    The World Bank
    Washington, D.C.


    Dear Sir:

    In response to your letter dated April 20 regarding the Implementation Completion Report
    (ICR) on the Health Reform Project (Phase I), Credit 3244-BO, I am pleased to submit the
    comments you have requested.

    For the first type of comments, related to the text and content of the document, the Project
    Management has already sent observations to the person in charge of health at the Resident
    Mission in Bolivia, in order to include the suggested changes and supplementary information
    in the report.

    With regard to the second set of comments, related to the opinions expressed on the general
    performance of the Project, I must express my agreement with the appraisal and ratings
    given on the execution of Credit 3244-BO, based on the design, approval, and



                                                     - 20 -

implementation activities of this credit, both from the Ministry of Health and the Project's
Coordination Unit, as well as from the World Bank's project team and the Resident Mission
and its support team.

However, after conducting a review of the document and the assertions and comments
reflected in it, it is necessary to point out the following:

When the Health Reform Project was negotiated, it was implied that its financing would be
aimed at generating changes in the country's health system; however, when we were
informed of the scope of the Project's components, for example, the implementation of
actions aimed at reducing maternal and child mortality, we noted that these take into
account only part of the activities of the health system and, although the intention is to
implement reform processes, these actions will only affect a few components. One of the
lessons learned and suggestion to be taken into account in future projects, is that the name of
the Project should denote its specific scope, as to avoid complications during its
implementation.

An analysis of the original components of the Project indicates that one of the actions of
Component I was the empowerment of communities. The results included in the ICR do
indeed reflect that some actions were implemented, such as the design of the Pregnant
Women's Rights Charter or, in the area of interculturality, the implementation of the Basic
Native and Indigenous Insurance, which was revoked as a result of the SUMI, and the
incorporation of two large indigenous organization groups in the discussion of health issues.
It would be important to undertake more aggressive actions to effectively involve the
communities on health-related decision-making, being this an action that has been left
pending for the second phase of the Project.

One of the major achievements of the first component was generating awareness in the
country to use national resources to purchase vaccines and syringes for the Expanded
Program of Immunizations (PAI). The results in the first APL did not meet the expectations
since the established goals were reached only for one year during project implementation.
However, this issue is being permanently considered in the annual national budget approvals
done by the Ministry of Finance. The inclusion of an article in a law requiring the Social
Security system to transfer resources for preventive health programs, including the PAI, was
a far-reaching measure. The decision on how to manage and use these funds lies within the
sector, thus ensuring that a significant percentage of these resources be transferred to the
PAI.

One of the activities of the Project's second component--strengthening the capacity to
respond to health needs--was to support the National Health Information System (SNIS).
Our understanding is that the objective of the Project was to strengthen the health districts to
adequately manage the information, in conjunction with the development of national actions
financed by a second loan approved for the health sector via the Inter-American
Development Bank. After four years of project implementation, given that these second loan
faced implementation problems, the activities carried out by the World Bank credit did not



                                               - 21 -

meet expectations, implying important investments with unsatisfactory results.

As a lesson learned for our Ministry is that of not committing complementary actions from
two different financing sources, if there is no assurance that the implementation timetables
will be parallel.

One of the important achievements of the second component is the implementation of the
performance agreements between the Ministry and the Departmental Health Services
(SEDES). The decentralization processes underway in the country requires that we be more
specific in this type of instrument, moving from an instrument to verify operational activities
within the framework of the structure and production of services to becoming a financial
evaluation instrument. For this, it is important that the second APL include actions leading
to the allocation of national and regional resources from public funds and demand
international aid agencies to report on the resources allocated to each of the Departments.

While analyzing the indicators used to evaluate the Project's achievements, we question their
pertinence and the development of these indicators based on the general objective of the
Project. Six of the eight project indicators are related to the productivity of the health
system, one measures the capacity of the PAI in reaching key municipalities with respect to
equity, and one reflects the country's willingness to finance health activities. There is no
indicator regarding the empowerment of the communities, an important issue that has yet to
be addressed.

With regard to the construction of the indicators, we believe these should be reviewed. For
example, the second indicator on the complete cycle of antenatal care reflects only the return
of women meeting a cycle of four office visits over a denominator (number of first visits)
which we are sure does not reflect the reality given the distortions in the information system,
thus the results of this indicator will always be low. The same applies to the third indicator,
related to early hospital neonatal mortality. On the other hand, those indicators on the
number of pneumonia cases or the supply of iron sulfate may perhaps not be measuring the
system's efficiency, since, in the first place, given the effect of the pentavalent vaccine, we
should start by measuring the decrease in the prevalence and, in the second, the intake or
use of the iron and not only its distribution.

One comment from the Minister's office to the Project refers to the relevance of the
investments made through the FPS. The National Cofinancing Policy and the procedures
approved by the DUF for the FPS leave out the social ministries from participating in the
decision-making on the investments made through this agency. This is not a problem derived
directly from the Project, since it goes beyond the actions that might be executed by it,
nevertheless the consequences of this do have an impact on the funds allocated to
investments with resources from Credit 3244-BO and now from Credit 3541-BO.

In analyzing the participation of other actors, such as process financiers or donors, one
achievement that should be highlighted is the partnership with the Pan American Health
Organization (PAHO), British Cooperation (DFID) and Canadian Cooperation (CIDA).



                                            - 22 -

    However, we must state that, unfortunately, relations with other institutions such as the
    Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), European Union (UE), Agency for International
    Development (USAID), other aid agencies from The Netherlands, Belgium and Japan, and
    agencies such as UNICEF, UNFPA, PMA, among others, have been nonexistent or
    infrequent, despite the existence of the Inter-Agency Committee.

    We hope that with these comments we are contributing to the final evaluation of the Project
    and stated the perception of this Ministry with regard to a project that was completed during
    the previous administration.

    We reiterate our most cordial salutations.


                                  (S) Fernando S. Antezama Aranibar
                                      Minister of Health and Sports


(b) Cofinanciers:

Not Applicable.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not Applicable.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:
Juan Pablo Uribe (Senior Health Specialist, Task Team Leader)
Patricia Álvarez (Operations Officer)
Nicole Schwab (Economist, Junior Professional Associate)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Mary Dowling (Program Assistant)
Patricia Bernedo (Program Assistant)
Mónica Claros (Team Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in chronological order:
Daniel Cotlear
Juan Pablo Uribe

C. List of people interviewed for the ICR:
Evangeline Javier (Sector Manager, WB)
Daniel Cotlear (Country Sector Leader, WB)
John Lincoln Newman (Country Manager, WB)
Rudolf V. Van Puymbroeck (Adviser)
Juan Pablo Uribe (Task Team Leader, WB)
Nicole Schwab (Junior Professional Associate, WB; ex-PCU technical staff)
Fernando Lavadenz (Health Specialist, WB; ex-PCU Director)



                                                  - 23 -

Patricia Álvarez (Operations Officer, WB)
Gina Tambini (Area Manager, Family and Community Health ­ PAHO; ex-PAI staff)
Cristian Pereira (current PCU Director and ex-Technical Director of the PCU in Bolivia)
Marina Cárdenas (DFID health staff in Bolivia; ex-PCU technical staff)




                                                 - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                        Key Performance Indicators
                                          Outcome/Impact Indicators:

    Achieved coverage (target)                              1998   1999    2000   2001   2002
1. Percentage of births attended by   Achieved Coverage     42%    47%     52%    54%    54%
trained health personnel              APL-1 Targets         36%    38%     40%    43%    46%
2. Women with complete cycle of       Achieved Coverage     30%    31%     33%    36%    34%
antenatal care visits                 APL-1 Targets         28%    30%     32%    36%    40%
3. Early neonatal hospital mortality Achieved Coverage       9       7       9     7      7
(per 1,000 live births)               APL-1 Targets          14     14      13     12     11
4. Number of pneumonia cases in       Achieved Coverage    81462   91554  112154 122743 128244
children under 5, attended in health  APL-1 Targets        68346   85000   95000 105000 115000
services
5. Number of acute diarrhea diseases Achieved Coverage     337123 372986 450772 426697
in children under 5, attended in      APL-1 Targets        292417 310000 340000 370000 400000
health services
6. Third dose of DPT/Hib/Hepatitis Achieved Coverage        77%    85%     89%    92%   100%
B vaccine                             APL-1 Targets         75%    82%     65%  75%75%   85%
7. Number of municipalities with      Achieved Coverage     171     135     66    118     53
DPT/Hib/Hepatitis B vaccine           APL-1 Targets         212     200     180   119     83
coverage below 80 percent
8. National financing of vaccines (in Achieved Coverage     0.5     1.9     4.0   2.0    3.3
millions of US $)                     APL-1 Targets         0.5     2.5     3.0   3.5    4.0


Output Indicators:

     Indicator          Projected in SAR/PAD         Actual/Latest Estimate

                              Not applicable




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                     Annex 2a
                         Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

 Project Component          Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                              Estimate*       Appraisal

Component I.                        36.6                        19.7           53.82%
Coverage and quality
improvements of the
health services and
empowerment of
communities
Component II.                        5.0                        3.68            73.6%
Strengthening local
capacity to respond to
health needs
Component III.                       2.4                        2.88            120%
Coordination,
Monitoring and
Evaluation

Total                               44.0                      26.26            59.7%

* Total costs, including both external and local financing.




                                                        - 26 -

                                                        Annex 2b
                                   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                            (in US$ million equivalent)*

    Expenditure                     Procurement Method                            Procurement Method
     Categories                      Appraisal Estimate                         Actual/Latest Estimate *
                       ICB       NCB       Other       NBF      Total   ICB    NCB       Other     NBF       Total
 1 Works
                                  0.44      0.05                0.49                     0.45                0.45
 2 Goods
                       0.15        1.0      3.4                 5.05    1.78    0.35     4.57                 6.7
 3 Services
                                            4.49                4.49                     3.86                3.86
 4 Miscellaneous
 Health                                     10.1                10.1                     9.0**                9.0
 Subprojects
 Incremental
 Administrative                             0.98                0.98                     0.66                0.66
 Cost
 Refunding of
 cost-preparation                           1.4                  1.4                     1.26                1.26
 advance
 Unallocated                                2.45                2.45
 Total                                      22.9                25.0    1.78    0.35     19.8                21.93


* Includes external funding (Credit)
** Includes various procurement modalities used under the MAR-I subcomponent.


Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants
under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements
for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.




                                                          - 27 -

                                      Annex 2c
               Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Component      Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of Appraisal
               Bank      Government     Bank         Government      Bank       Government
Component      18.4          18.2       16.3             3.40        88.6%         18.7%
I. Coverage
and quality
improvement
s of the
health
services and
empowerme
nt of
communities
Component      4.3           0.7        2.85             0.83        66.3%        118.6%
II.
Strengthenin
g local
capacity to
respond to
health needs
Component      2.3           0.1        2.78             0.10       120.9%         100%
III.
Coordination
, Monitoring
and
Evaluation

TOTAL          25.0          19.0       21.93            4.33        87.7%         22.8%




                                        - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                          Annex 3
                                   Cost Benefit Analysis
                           (indicate currency, units and base year)

                                Present Value of Flows
                      Economic Analysis                          Financial Analysis
                  Appraisal        Latest Estimates       Appraisal         Latest Estimates

Benefits
Costs
                                           NOT APPLICABLE
Net Benefits
IRR/NPV




                                            - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/15/-06/19/98            6    SECTOR LIDER (1)
                                              INVESTMENT MECANISMS
                                              (1)
                                              BASICAL INSURANCE (1)
                                              INF. AND INSTITUTIONAL (1)
                                              PHARMACEUTICAL SPEC. (1)
                                              TASK TEAM LEADER (1)

              09/07-09/11/1998           4    HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                              EPIDEMIOLOGIST (1)
                                              INVESTMENT AND PROJECT
                                              ORG. SPECIALIST (1)
                                              TASK TEAM LEADER (1)

              11/16/-11/24/1998          7    TASK MANAGER (1)
                                              IMMUNIZATIONS
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
                                              INVESTMT SYSTEMS SPEC.
                                              (1)
                                              HEALTH FINANCE SPEC. (1)
                                              INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)
                                              IMCI SPECILIAST (1)
                                              FINANCIAL ASSESSMT. (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/28-29/1999            12     RES REPRESENTATIVE
              02/09/1999                      (1);
              02/12/1999                      SECTOR LEADER; (1)
              02/19/1999                      CONSULTANT (Nutrition)
                                              (1)
                                              PROCUREMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
                                              TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                                              LAWYER (1)
                                              LEAD PROC. SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
                                              SENIOR FIN. MANAGMT
                                              (1)
                                              IMPL. AND INVEST.
                                              FUND SPECIALIST
                                              (CONSULTANT) (1)
                                              DISBURSEMENT
                                              OFFICER (1)

 Supervision
              08/03/1999                 6    SR. ECONOMIST/TM (1);            S               S



                                               - 30 -

                MONITORING AND
                EVALUAT (1);
                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                (1); MAR (1); PAHO,
                CHILD/MOTHER HEA (1);
                PAHO, IMMUNIZATIONS
                SP (1)
12/21/1999    2 HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);       HS    HS
                MAR (1)
02/04/2000      TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                CONSULTANT (1)
10/26/2000      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1)
                IMPLEMENTATION
                SPECIALIST (1)
03/03/2001      TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                ECONOMIST (1)
08/24/2001      NUTRITIONIST (1)
                CONSULTANT (1)
11/23/2001      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
04/19/2002    5 MISSION LEADER (1); MAR -    HS    HS
                NUTRITION (1); EXTENSA
                (2); VACCINES (1)
08/30/2002    5 TASK MANAGER (1);            HS    HS
                PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                FINANC. MANAG. ANALYST
                (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (2)
02/14/2003    8 TASK MANAGER (1); TASK       S     S
                MANAGER (NEW) (1);
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                SR. SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                JPA (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST
                (1); FINAN. MANANGEMENT
                (1); PROC. ASSISTANT (1);
                CONSULTANT (3)
06/20/2003    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
                HEALTH SPECIALIST
                CONSULTANT (1)
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1)
                PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                (1)
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1)

11/13/2003    7 TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
                HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
                HD SPECIALIST (1)
                HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                - 31 -

                                              (1)
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              (1)


 ICR
               03/01/04-04/30/2         4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
               004                            CONSULTANT (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 17
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      12
  Supervision                                40
  ICR                                         4
  Total                                      73




                                              - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's comments to the ICR, dated May 11, 2004 (included as Annex 8).

5. Borrower's Project Evaluation Report dated March 15, 2004, and its corresponding executive
   summary (included as Annex 9).

6. Project Appraisal Document for Bolivia Health Sector Reform Project dated March 31, 1999 (Report
   No: 18980-BO).




                                               - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments ­ Original




                                      - 36 -

- 37 -

- 38 -

- 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Executive Summary of the Borrower's Final Project Evaluation

                                 (Received from the Borrower on April 12, 2004)



The Health Sector Reform project was born within the context of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
with the purpose of contributing to the reduction of the infant mortality rate.

The first phase was implemented from 1998 to 2002, with a total credit amount of SDR 17.8 million.
Execution was the responsibility of both implementing units: the Ministry of Health and Social Prevision
(MOH) and the Social Investment Fund (FIS).

The main components and activities developed were as follows:

1.      Design and implementation of an insurance system: The Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Básico
        de Salud, SBS) was funded with 6.4% of the 85% of Municipal Tax co-participation funds and
        granted 92 health care services, including the services provided by all national programs. This
        Insurance had the following effects:

        a) The level of funding addressed to health care increased; all municipalities funded more health
            care services with 6.4% of the 85% of their tax co-participation resources, without this
            accounting for the total municipal contribution in health care.
        b) This insurance contributed to decrease mother-child mortality rates as it also covered the rural
            area, where the highest rates in the country were found.
        c) The demand for primary health care services was promoted; health care posts and centers in
            rural areas were reactivated and the demand increased because of free services.
        d) The population was empowered based on knowledge of their rights.

2.      Implementation of a results-based system, through the signing of: (i) Management Commitments
        at different levels: SEDES, health districts and third level hospitals in Santa Cruz, and (ii)
        Management agreements, subscribed among hospitals, municipalities and SEDES to delegate
        administration to those entities. This activity had the following effects:

        a) Enhancement of a results-based culture in sector-related institutions.
        b) The introduction of quantitative indicators and goals in the design of national policies for
            health care.
        c) The opinion of the involved people in the process is as follows: "The Management
            Commitment enables introduction in the system of the concept of individual responsibility and
            accountability. Moreover, based on these agreements it was possible for workers at the
            operating level to regain their self-esteem, when they saw the impact of their work on
            indicators and the objective of reducing mother-child mortality in the country."

3.      Application of quality standards and regulations. The following activities were implemented: (i)
        Development of minimum standards to assess health care facilities, aimed at certification and
        accreditation; (ii) revision and dissemination of services and treatment norms with a network
        approach for the four basic areas of specialization: internal medicine, surgery,
        obstetrics-gynecology and anesthesiology; (iii) intervention in mother-child hospitals with processes
        for diagnosis and technical assistance to improve the problem-solving capacity in case of
        mother-newborn emergencies, and (iv) the introduction of a rights-based approach, through
        dissemination of the Charter of Rights of Pregnant Women.


                                                     - 40 -

          The following achievements can be mentioned:

          a) Introduction of a quality culture in the sector.
          b) The involvement of municipal authorities and civil society in ongoing improvements of health
              care facilities.

4.        Health economics. Research was started on health economics, with the publication of the
          National Accounts in Health Care Funding and Expenditure, 1999 ­ 2001. In addition, the SBS
          was supported by means of the monitoring of funding, an analysis of the administration of
          mother-child health care facilities, the financing of new services and other municipal initiatives
          related to the health insurance.

5.        Resource Allocation Mechanism. A resource distribution system at the municipal level was
          designed based on the population and the human development index, for investment projects in
          municipalities pertaining to 5 departments. The FIS was in charge of the administration of the
          program. At the moment of closing, 311 projects had been approved for an amount of US$ 10.3
          million, and with a budget execution of 94%.

6.        Financial-administrative area. An evaluation of the financial administration of the first project
          phase determined that the unit: *i) has auditing and internal control systems in accordance with
          Bank norms; (ii) registers all payments related to the procurement of goods/services and financial
          transactions; and (iii) generates sufficient information to administer and supervise project
          activities.

The following topics were identified as challenges upon conclusion of the first project phase:

          a) Human Resources, "The MOH must deepen its recent efforts focusing the challenges related
              to Human Resources in health, by means of the following activities: i) improve the distribution
              of HR administration and management functions among the different government levels, ii)
              establish pro-rural policy adjustments to correct inbalances in the distribution of human
              resources, iii) target EXTENSA and HIPC human resources in priority rural areas." (Schwab
              N., 2003).
          b) Cultural adjustment of health care services, deepening actions to overcome the barriers that
              hamper the population's increased access.
          c) Deepening of studies to expand the health insurance systems, considering new target groups
              and new health care services.
          d) Expand coverage to decrease the gaps that still exist between the urban and rural areas.


The most relevant effectiveness indicators were: (i) budget execution indicators in accordance with Bank
criteria, and (ii) the anticipated achievement of goals.




                                                        - 41 -

- 42 -

