Report No. PID6757
Project Name                      Bolivia-Health Sector Reform Project (@)
(REFSAL)
Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                            Human Development
Project ID                        BOPE60392
Borrower                          Government of Bolivia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Health and Social Investment
Fund (FIS)
Date This PID Prepared            February 19, 1999
Appraisal Date                    January, 1999
Board Date                        April 8, 1999
1.      Background:   Bolivia lags in many sectors in relation to LAC, but in no
sector is this as dramatic as it is in health. When controlling for income and
education, Bolivia has the worst health performance in LAC, as measured by
under-5 mortality rate and by the maternal mortality rate.
- Under-5 mortality: While this indicator improved by 40% during the last 15
years, the rate estimated for 1994-98 is still a very high 92 per 1,000
(Infant mortality rate, IMR is 67 per 1,000). Most of the child deaths
continue to be due to acute respiratory infections (perhaps 40% of deaths, of
which a fourth may be due to Hib disease) and diarrheal infections. The
improvement was least in perinatal deaths (0 to 1 month), which are often
related to insufficient obstetric care.
- Maternal Mortality: The 1994 DHS estimates the maternal mortality rate for
1984-94 at around 400 deaths for 100,000 births. Part of the problem lies
with the lack of use of skilled attendants at delivery (contrast Bolivia's
46% to Nicaragua's 61%). Many births in Bolivia take place at home and are
attended by family members. This pattern is stronger in rural areas (70% of
births at home), but prevails even in areas those cities such as El Alto or
Sucre. Part of the problem is in contraception; in 1994, 65% of women
declared that their last birth was not planned; women want 2.7 children and
have 4.8.   In 1998, only 25% of women (11% in rural areas) use modern
contraception; this group constitutes only a third part of the married women
who do not want more children. Women who do not have access to family
planning often resort to abortion. Unsafe abortion is one of the factors
contributing to Bolivia's high maternal mortality ratio.
2.      The Government has made the reduction of maternal mortality and of child
mortality a central part of its health sector strategy. This is reflected in
the Strategic Health Plan for Poverty-Reduction published in June 1998 (PES),
and in the five year National Action Plan of November 1997. To this aim, the
following areas of intervention will receive special government support:
- National implementation of the IMCI package (Integrated Management of
Childhood Illness). IMCI, is a set of guidelines developed by WHO, adapted to
LAC by PAHO, and further adapted to Bolivia by the Government in 1996-98, when
it became the official strategy for the reduction of child mortality. It



integrates the main curative and preventive elements of primary health care.
The new system is expected to improve case management skills and communication
and counseling skills of health workers, to improve the organization of work
at the health facility level, and to simplify monitoring and supervision;
- Development and initial implementation of a mother-baby package (MBP) to
improve maternal and neonatal care. The MBP strategy is not as developed as
IMCI, but there have been valuable pilot experiences, including a carefully
evaluated experience by Mother Care (an USAID-financed NGO). These
experiences are feeding the development of a MBP strategy.
- Strengthening of the public health functions and of surveillance,
especially the immunization program and programs to control endemic diseases
(with emphasis in chagas, tuberculosis and malaria);
- Implementation of an improved financing system of public health to give
sustainability to the 3 areas mentioned above and of a system of performance
agreements to encourage accountability and strengthen monitoring of
interventions; and
- Increased support for intersectoral local level interventions, especially
for these that combine water and sanitation, education and health.
3.      Project Objectives:   The objective of the 8-10 year program to be supported
by the proposed APL is to reduce child and maternal mortality. To this end,
the first phase of the APL would follow the following strategies:
- To increase coverage and quality of health services, and to empower
communities to improve their health status; and
- To strengthen local capacity to respond to health needs.
4.      Project Description:
I. Coverage and quality improvements of the health services and empowerment
of communities
A. Implementation of the new medium term plan for the Expanded Immunization
Program (EPI)
B. Implementation of the IMCI strategy (Integrated Management of Childhood
Illness) and the Mother Baby Package
C. Subprojects for the reduction of child and Maternal Mortality
II. Strengthening local capacity to respond to health needs
A. Implementation of the Basic Health Insurance System
B. Impulse to the Management Information Systems
C. Strengthening of local management systems
III. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.      Program and Project Financing:   This Adjustable Program Loan (APL) supports
- 2-



the Health Reform Program estimated to required around 10 years of
implementation and to cost US$150 million.. The purpose of the program is to
help reduce the rates of maternal and child mortality by complementing other
interventions in education, rural productivity and water and sanitation
described in the equity pillar of the Bolivia CAS. The APL would have three
phases, lasting approximately three years each. The first phase, initiating
in 1999 and ending in 2002 with the end of President Banzer's administration,
would require a credit of approximately US$25 million. Phases II and III (if
approved) would require about US$25 million each. At the end of phase III,
the mortality rates of mothers and children under 5 years of age in Bolivia
would be substantially closer than they are today to the average rate for
Latin America.
6.      Project Implementation
Implementation period: 3.0 years (APL I)
Executing agencies: The Ministry of Health through the Health Reform Unit
(Unidad de Reforma de Salud -URS) would carry out the project in accordance
with an operational manual satisfactory to IDA. Key instruments for the
execution of the project would be: (i) annual operating plans to be used by
all departmental and district level implementing agencies; and (ii)
performance agreements to bind all departmental and district level agencies to
the achievement of agreed upon health results. The Bolivian Social Investment
Fund (FIS) would carry out the execution of health subprojects in accordance
with a Subsidiary Agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Health and FIS under terms and conditions which shall be approved by IDA. It
was agreed at negotiations that the agreement would be renewed yearly
contingent upon FIS's satisfactory performance.
Operational Manual. The project would use an operational manual covers all
aspects of project implementation, including but not limited to:
organizational and management structures, supervision and evaluation
mechanisms; targeting and other criteria for resource allocation; eligibility
criteria for health subprojects and the measures to be taken to ensure that
the environment will not be negatively affected; procedures for the
formulation of annual implementation plans; financial, accounting and auditing
procedures; procurement procedures and standard bidding documents; and a menu
of eligible investments.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. This project is piloting a
performance-driven Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The agreement is
flexible in relation to the use of inputs and processes, but is strict in the
achievement of targets in the eight performance criteria of annex 1. In order
to convey the message about the need to obtain results, the MSPS will sign and
monitor Performance Agreements focussing on the eight criteria with Prefectos.
The URS will be responsible for project monitoring. Progress reports,
including monitoring indicators, will be sent by the URS to the Bank every six
months.
Impact Evaluation. The Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) of 1998, provides
a strong baseline for phase I of the APL. To evaluate the impact of the
project the results of the DHS for 1998 and would be compared with results of
a survey to be carried in 2001. At negotiations, the government gave
assurances that data for 2001 using a methodology comparable to that of the
- 3 -



1998 DHS, would be available in the first quarter of 2002. To measure
subproject impact, a baseline and control group would be established during
the first year of implementation. In the last year of execution, a
representative sampling study would be carried out for the different types of
subprojects to measure the impact of investments on selected indicators. The
preparation of the baseline would take into account: (i) ethnicity and gender;
(ii) recommendations of impact evaluations of the FIS, PROISS and PSH
projects; and (iii) studies of coverage and quality in service delivery and
service demand carried out during project preparation.
7.      Project Sustainability:   This project builds up on the heritage of previous
Bank projects (such as several projects in support of the Social Investment
Fund and its predecessors) and other operations and policies that have left
behind a strong base from which Bolivia can continue to carry on its primary
health care. These projects have started a culture of management and
accountability which did not exist before. A second element in favor of
sustainability is the consultation undertaken during preparation with the
various stakeholders involved at the national, departmental, municipal, and
community level who will have key roles in project implementation. The
treasury has now acknowledged its responsibility to finance the immunizations
program. A third element is the requirement of counterpart funds from
beneficiaries. This policy is applied rigorously by FIS for all subprojects
and is now well accepted by the communities who are accustomed to contributing
a counterpart for investment costs, and by local governments. For the
implementation of the SBS, the approval of the Supreme Decree of the SBS
allows municipalities that voluntarily join the scheme to earmark a fraction
of the transfers received from the treasury to pay for recurrent costs; it
also allows the treasury to deposit the earmarked funds into a special
account.
8.      Lessons Learned:   PROISS and the other two main health sector projects had
a rigid and top-down design. All planning was made centrally, and
communities participate only at the execution stage. The projects have been
slow to implement, and many investments are underutilized (e.g. health centers
unnecessarily built in the proximity of a hospital). The construction of
almost 100 PSF-financed clinics is paralyzed. FIS on the other hand has built
on demand by communities and has been agile, but its investments suffer from
problems of sustainability, and are often insufficiently connected with the
MOH's policy framework. The new project will use a bottom-up approach, with
the requirement that municipalities provide for the financial sustainability
of investments (through enforceable arrangements based on voluntary earmarking
of future transfers) and the development of new instruments (SBS and
Management Contracts) for the exercise of the MOH's normative and regulatory
role.
9.      Poverty Category:   The proposed project is included in the program of
Targeted Interventions, as resources will be allocated to subprojects by
utilizing a poverty index.
10.     Environmental Aspects (Category B): The project does not present any
significant environmental risk. The immunizations component will improve
environmental practices by introducing practices for the disposal of syringes
and needles (these do not exist in Bolivia). Subprojects eligible for
financing will be subject to an environmental evaluation criteria as part of
its technical evaluation. Subprojects should comply with measures to minimize
- 4 -



environmental impact. The Operational Manual for the project includes the
steps to minimize impact, and the criteria to be adopted for each type of
subproject.
11.     Program Objectives Category:    The primary program objective category is
Poverty Reduction (PA)
12.     Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager's Name: Daniel Cotlear
Telephone:   (202) 473-5083
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 5, 1999.
- 5-



