Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18980-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED
ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.8 MILLION
(US$25 million equivalent)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FORA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
March 31, 1999
Human Development Department
Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = Boliviano (Bs)
US$1 = Bs 5.66
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
IDA          International Development Association
CAS          Country Assistant Strategy
CDF          Comprehensive Development Framework
DHS          Demographic and Health Survey (Encuesta Demografica de Salud)
EPI          Expanded Program on Immunization
FARAH        Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FIS          Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
HIPC         Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMCI         Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (Atenci6n Integral de las
Enfermedades Prevalentes de la Infancia)
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
MAR          Resource Allocation Mechanism (Mecanismo de Asignaci6n de Recursos)
MBP          Mother-Baby Package (Paquete Materno-Neonatal)
MSPS         Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Saludy Previsi6n Social)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization)
PA           Perfonnance Agreements
PAHO         Panamerican Health Organization
PES          Strategic Health Plan (Plan Estrategico de Salud)
PIDI         Integrated Child Development Project (Proyecto de Desarrollo Integral del Nino)
POA          Annual Operating Plan (Plan Operativo Annual)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PROISS       Integrated Health Development Project (Proyecto Integrado de Servicios Salud)
SBS          Basic Health Insurance (Seguro Basico de Salud)
SNMN         National Matemal-Child Insurance (Seguro Nacional de Maternidady Ninez)
SNIS         National System of Health Information (Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n de
Salud)
UGSBS        Administrating Unit of SBS (Unidad de Gerencia del Seguro Bcisico de Salud)
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
URS          Health Reform Unit (Unidad de Reforma de Salud)
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WHO          World Health Organization (Organizaci6n Mundial de la Salud)
Vice President:              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:     Xavier Coll
Team Leader:                 Daniel Cotlear



Bolivia
Health Sector Reform Project
CONTENTS
A. Program  Purpose and Project Development Objective .........................................................2
1. Program   purpose and program   phasing .............................2..............................2
2. Project development objective ............................................................3
B. Strategic Context ............................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the
project ............................................................3
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................                               3
3. Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices .................................4
C. Project Description Summary ............................................................7
1. Project components ......................................................7
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported by the project .......................................8
3. Benefits and target population ...........8..........................................8
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ......................................................                                 8
D. Project Rationale ...........................................................                                                                     10
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ..........................                              ................... 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies ...........................................................                                                                    10
3. Lessons learned  and reflected  in the project design ...................................................... 11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ............................................ ....... 12
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ...........................................................                             12
E. Summary Project Analysis ...........................................................                                                              12
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                                 12
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                                13
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                                13
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                                            13
5. Social ...........................................................                                                                   14
6. Environmental assessment ...........................................................                                                 14
7. Participatory  approach ...........................................................                                                  14
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................................................                                                               15
1. Sustainability .....................................................                                                                 15
2. Critical Risks .....................................................                                                                  15



G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                16
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                        16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                       16
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 1 a:    Performance Benchmarks
Annex 2a.    Detailed Project Description
Annex 2b.    Project Management and Operational Manual
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4a      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 4b      Public Expenditures in Health (Table)
Annex 5.      Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Letter of Sector Policy from the Government of Bolivia
Annex 12.    Participation and Social Communication Strategies
Map



Bolivia
Health Sector Reform
Project Appraisal Document
BOLIVIA
LCC6C
Date: March 31, 1999                                 Team Leader: Daniel Cotlear
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero            Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: BO-PE- 60392                             Sector: HNP
Lending Instrument: APL                              Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:     [X] Yes  [   No
Program F       ia                   p
APL              indicative Financin Plan           Etmated ImplmtiWB                        r
...______  _______________                               Perod  .( ank  F-Y)
IDA          Others      Total    Commitment    Closing
US$ m      %      US$m       US $ m        Date           Date
APL 1          25       57%       19         44         FY1 999        FY2002          Republic of Bolivia
Loan/
C redit                    _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2          25       50%       25          50        FY2002         FY2005          Republic of Bolivia
Loan/
Credit                                _____
APL 3          25       42%       35         60         FY2005         FY2009          Republic of Bolivia
Loan/
C redit             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Project Financing Data
[ X] Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 17.8 m (US$25 m equivalent for APL l); US$75 m for full program
Proposed terms:                            [X] Multicurrency
Grace period (years):              10
Years to maturity:                 40
Commitment fee:                    NA
Service charge:                    0.75
Financing plan:
Source                                                       Local             Foreign            Total
Government                                                   13.5                                  13.5
IDA                                                           6.2               18.8               25.0
Other                                                         1.4                4.1                5.5
Total:                                                       21.1               22.9               44.0
Borrower: Republic of Bolivia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health and Social Prevention
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2000          2001          20.02
Annual        7.6          10.7          6.7
Cumulative        7.6         18.3          25.0
Project implementation period: 3.0 years
Expected effectiveness date: September, 1999            Expected closing date: October, 2002
Implementing agencies: Ministry of Health and Social Prevention and Social Investment Fund
Contact person: Fernando Lavadenz, General Manager
Address: Calle Batall6n Colorados, Edificio Batall6n Colorados, piso 3, La Paz-Bolivia
Tel: (5912) 363-401             Fax: (5912) 350-706              E-mail: refsalud@mail.entelnet.bo
OCS APL PAD Form: November 4, 1998



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 2
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing: (see Annex 1)
This Adjustable Program Loan (APL) supports the first phase of the Health Reform Program described in
the Bolivian Government's letter to the World Bank, attached to this PAD (Annex 11). The purpose of
the program is to help reduce the infant mortality rate by complementing other interventions in education,
rural productivity and water and sanitation described in the equity pillar of the Bolivia CAS. The baseline
and targets for the infant mortality rate are shown below. The target for 2001 is the target for the CAS as
revised in agreement with the Bank on February 23, 1999 (see details in Annex 1):
,~~~~                     ~~~ "'~ '''2O'''O1'''             End End  Pwgnam
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 births)    67             60                48
The APL would have three phases, lasting approximately three years each. The first phase, initiating in
1999 and ending in 2002 with the end of President Banzer's administration, would require a credit of
US$25 million equivalent. The "End of Project" indicators refer to 2001 to allow time for evaluation to
feed the preparation of a second phase (expected to begin in mid-2002). Phases II and III (if approved)
would require about US$25 million each. At the end of phase III, the mortality rates of infants and
children under 5 years of age in Bolivia would be substantially closer than they are today to the average
rate for Latin America.
The two main Health Reform Program strategies are:
*  to increase coverage and quality of health services and related programs that would improve the
health status of the population, and to empower communities to improve their health status; and
* to strengthen local capacity to respond to health needs.
Many of the Program's elements make the APL the appropriate financing mechanism: (i) the goal of
reducing infant mortality rates requires changes that can only be achieved over the long-term; (ii) the
introduction of new management instruments (described below) requires experimentation, learning-by-
doing and adjustment over time; and (iii) the program's success requires that successive governments
continue to assign priority to reducing child and maternal mortality, postponing competing objectives
sought by politically powerful groups -the Bank's active presence in the sector for the long run may
help secure this commitment.
During Phase 1 (1999-2002), (i) the immunization program will be revamped, and new vaccines will be
introduced, (ii) the Seguro Basico de Salud (Basic Health Insurance-SBS) -recently created to expand
and refine the Mother and Child Insurance- will be established, and (iii) three new instruments would be
put into use: performance agreements (PA), treatment protocols for mothers and children (MBP and
IMCI), and a demand driven investment mechanism (MAR). During Phase I, these instruments would be
utilized in their most simplified form, closely supervised, and adjusted as necessary. Project support for
those programs would be provided at the national level, except for MAR which would be initially tested
in five departments which together represent 81 percent of the Bolivian population and include four fifths
of child deaths.
During phases II and III, the MAR would be implemented nationally, and depending on the successful
implementation of the SBS, PAs, MBP, IMCI and MAR, more elaborate forms of these instruments



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                               Page 3
would be incorporated. These might include, for example, extending the use of performance agreements
to municipalities, the introduction of more market-based payment mechanisms under the SBS, the use of
multiple providers, maternal and child interventions with greater emphasis on third level interventions,
and a menu of subprojects with greater emphasis on integrated health interventions.
Triggers for the transition to APL I. The achievement of the performance benchmarks for 2,001 in
Annex la would act as "triggers" to initiate a new stage. These triggers have been chosen to measure: (i)
physical implementation indicators, to demonstrate tangible progress in project-related outputs; and (ii)
progress in the five areas mentioned in the previous paragraph. Additionally, credit disbursements will
need to be sufficiently high to indicate a need for second phase funding. At the end of Phase I's
execution, compliance with the APL's objectives and strategies would be reviewed; next steps would be
proposed, as would any adjustments necessary for Phase II. The development of a new set of impact and
process indicators would be among these adjustments.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The phase I objectives reflect the program goal of helping to reduce the infant mortality rate. During
phase I the two strategies of the overall program will be used, namely: (i) to increase coverage and quality
of health services, and to empower communities to improve their health status; and (ii) to strengthen local
capacity to respond to health needs.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17890-BO              Date of latest CAS discussion: June 16, 1998
Bolivia's National Action Plan - the basis of the current Bolivia CAS - has poverty reduction as the
centerpiece of the present Governments' development program up to the year 2002. The strategy for
attaining this ultimate goal is to implement actions within a framework of four pillars: opportunity,
equity, institutionality and dignity. The strategy requires a comprehensive view of attaining the pillar
objectives, working closely with development partners and being accountable for results. Along these
lines, the proposed Bolivia Health Sector Reform Project will be the first operation in Bolivia to test a
results-based approach to lending: if intermediate outcome indicators are not achieved, IDA will review
the situation with the borrower in an effort to determine the most appropriate remedial measures but will
retain the option to suspend disbursements.
This project will contribute to strengthening two of the CAS pillars: (i)equity, by improving access and
quality of social services and by reorienting and improving the quality of public expenditures-it will
complement activities in education, water and sanitation and rural productivity described in the equity
pillar of the CAS-; and (ii) opportunity, by introducing reforms that will improve the return of
investments in the creation of human capital. The project would directly contribute to improving one of
the four variables that constitute CAS Core Benchmarks (infant mortality rate), and would indirectly
contribute to the other three core benchmarks (malnutrition, poverty and poverty gap). Project key
performance indicators (Annex 1) have been built on the basis of the health sector World Bank Group
Self Evaluation Indicators (CAS Annex B 1).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Bolivia lags in many sectors in relation to LAC, but in no sector is this as dramatic as it is in health. When
controlling for income and education, Bolivia has the worst health performance in LAC, as measured by
infant, child and maternal mortality rates.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                               Page 4
Under-5 mortality: While this indicator improved by 40% during the last 15 years, the rate estimated
for 1994-98 is still a very high 92 per 1,000 (Infant mortality rate, IMR is 67 per 1,000). Most of the
child deaths continue to be due to acute respiratory infections (perhaps 40% of deaths, of which a
fourth may be due to Hib disease) and diarrehal infections. The improvement was least in perinatal
deaths (0 to 1 month), which are often related to insufficient obstetric care.
* Maternal Mortality: While the 1994 DHS estimates the maternal mortality rate for 1984-94 at around
400 deaths for 100,000 births, technical reviewers from WHO and UNICEF raised this estimate to
630 deaths per 100,000 in 1997. Part of the problem lies with the lack of use of skilled attendants at
delivery (contrast Bolivia's 46% to Nicaragua's 61%). Many births in Bolivia take place at home and
are attended by family members. This pattern is stronger in rural areas (70% of births at home), but
prevails even in cities such as El Alto or Sucre. Part of the problem is in the high fertility rate that
results from weak contraception. In 1994, 65% of women declared that their last birth was not
planned; women wanted 2.7 children and have 4.8. In 1998, only 25% of women (11% in rural areas)
use modern contraception; this group constitutes only a part of the number of married women who do
not want more children. Women who do not have access to family planning often resort to abortion.
Unsafe abortion is one of the factors contributing to Bolivia's high maternal mortality ratio.
The Government has made the reduction of child mortality and of maternal mortality a central part of its
health sector strategy. This is reflected in the Strategic Health Plan for Poverty-Reduction published in
June 1998 (PES), and in the five year National Action Plan of November 1997. To this aim, the
following areas of intervention will receive special government support:
*  National implementation of the IMCI package (Integrated Management of Childhood Illness). IMCI,
is a set of guidelines developed by WHO, adapted to LAC by PAHO, and further adapted to Bolivia
by the Government in 1996-98, when it became the official strategy for the reduction of child
mortality. It integrates improved management of prevalent childhood illness with aspects of nutrition,
immunization and maternal health. The new system is expected to improve case management skills
and communication and counseling skills of health workers, to improve the organization of work at
the health facility level, and to simplify monitoring and supervision;
*  Development and initial implementation of a mother-baby package (MBP) to improve matemal and
neonatal care. The MBP strategy is not as developed as IMCI, but there have been valuable pilot
experiences, including a carefully evaluated experience by Mother Care (an USAID-financed NGO).
These experiences are feeding the development of a MBP strategy.
*  Strengthening of the public health functions and of surveillance, especially the immunization program
and programs to control endemic diseases (with emphasis in chagas, tuberculosis and malaria); and
*  Implementation of an improved financing system of public health to give sustainability to the 3 areas
mentioned above and of a system of performance agreements to encourage accountability and
strengthen monitoring of interventions.
*  Increased support for intersectoral local level interventions, especially for these that combine water
and sanitation, education and health.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Health sector issues can be grouped into two categories; (i) low coverage of services; due to problems of
access of quality of supply and of lack of community and beneficiary involvement; and (ii) low capacity
to respond to health needs. The poor health situation is partly due to the weakness of key basic services,
especially water and sanitation and the education of girls, the project (through subprojects) will develop
instruments to ensure coordination of health service initiatives with interventions to improve these key
services at the local level.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                Page 5
Problems of coverage, access, quality, and lack of community empowerment
There has been substantial construction of health centers, which increased by 50% during the 1990s;
around 110 new centers will be inaugurated in the next 12 months (together with 7 hospitals). This
expansion has included many previously isolated rural areas. However, there remain important problems
of: (i) quality of the supply, related to the weakening of public health interventions -especially the
immunizations program and the endemic diseases programs- and to the lack of a strategy to provide care
for children and mothers; (ii) lack of instruments to implement the strategy to decentralize execution of
health interventions. These problems are discussed below.
The immunization program. Since 1996, immunization coverage has fallen in Bolivia due to institutional
weaknesses in the Expanded Immunization Program (EPI), to insufficient and inconsistent allocation of
funds by the government, and to a lack of a sustained social communications strategy. Field activities
have also suffered because of a lack of support from the regional authorities. Informnation on coverage is
not reliable: official SNIS data estimates of coverage are double those of survey estimates. Additionally,
Bolivia lags behind in the incorporation of new vaccines now used in much of Latin America, which
could contribute significantly to the reduction of infant mortality. The introduction of a vaccine against
invasive diseases due to Haemophilus influenza type b, could reduce the number of dead children per year
by 450-3,100. The vaccines against hepatitis B and yellow fever could also have a rapid and significant
impact in endemic areas. As part of the project's preparation, the Government-with support from
IDA, PAIIO, and other donors supporting immunization programs-has prepared a medium-term
immunization plan that responds to the problems mentioned above.
Endemic Diseases. The incidence of communicable diseases has increased in recent years. Vector-
transmissible diseases such as chagas, malaria and yellow fever have increased their share of the burden
of disease, reaching 40% in recent years. The incidence of chagas is higher than anywhere else in Latin
America, 60% of the territory is endemic, and almost 2 million people are reported as infected. The
incidence of malaria and other has also increased reaching 64 thousand cases and covering 8 of the 9
departments in 1996. Bolivia has the second worse incidence of tuberculosis in the continent. In
February 1999, the IDB approved a loan of $45 million for the control of endemic diseases,
including strengthening of the surveillance system.
Quality of Care. Even when treatment is sought at a health care facility, it is often not adequate. Health
workers are often poorly trained and supervised or lack the essential drugs and equipment needed to
provide good care. There is an urgent need to ensure that children and mothers who reach a health care
provider are correctly evaluated, classified and treated, and that appropriate preventive counseling
messages are provided to improve mother's home care. A strategy developed by WHO and UNICEF for
the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) has been adapted for use to Bolivia. A strategy
is also under development for Safe Motherhood interventions. These strategies, which cover case
management, improvements in health workers' performance, management of drug supplies, evaluation
and changes in family behaviors, hospital care and community and family action now need to be
implemented.
Effective Demand and community and beneficiary participation. Even where health centers exist, many
women and children get no attention. This is due to: (a) cost (direct fees, transportation, drugs and
supplies, opportunity costs - the poor are thought to assign an average 10% of their consumption to
these costs); (b) lack of empowerment on the part of women, especially of indigenous women, both
within the household (e.g. to decide where to have birth or how to react to obstetric complications) and in
relation to the health services; (c) cultural/ethnic barriers -these work in several ways to difficult access
and use of health care services by the indigenous population. Cultural factors include believes and habits
that make the indigenous population uncomfortable with western technology. They are also a reflection
of the lack of "voice" and empowerment of beneficiaries; and (d) lack of community outreach, health
services in Bolivia are "overmedicalized"-health workers are only responsible for patients that enter



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                 Page 6
their office seeking curative care and neglect the extramural activities that are high in the agenda of
primary health facilities in other countries. Activities such as water safety (in rural areas), vector control,
vaccinations, control of pregnant women, dissemination of reproductive health messages to girls, should
become programmed activities of the primary care providers. Implementation of these activities will
require strong management tools for extramural activities, adaptation of infrastructure design and care
practices, good information, participation of local governments and a clear strategy of supervision by
higher levels of health authority.
Problems of capacity to respond to health needs
The new Bolivian health system seeks to decentralize execution of health interventions within a
strengthened policy framework. The effective implementation of this framework, requires more and better
quality of financing, improved incentives and stronger systems of information, monitoring and
accountability. These systems today are weak:
Public financing. There are problems with the availability and with the quality of public funding. Public
spending in health is insufficient. It has recently been estimated by a team of Harvard and PAHO
specialists to be equivalent to about 0.8% of GDP, a fourth of the Latin American average in terms of
fiscal effort, and less than US$8 per capita - the 1993 World Development Report recommended between
$12 and $15 for the poorest countries. The GOB's emphasis in health has been falling over recent years:
as a proportion of total public expenditure, expenditures in health in 1997 were half of what they were in
1989. The quality of spending also needs to be improved. Large increases in the payroll without links to
better performance (such as occurred in 1994-95) or large increases in sophisticated hospital equipment
will not lead to improved basic indicators.
An important step forward toward improving the quality of public spending was the creation in 1995 of
the Seguro Nacional de Niniez y Maternidad (SNMN), aimed at reducing the economic barrier for poor
women and children by eliminating copayments for a few key interventions. This led to a substantial
increase in the use of some services (e.g. institutional births grew by 44% after 1995). The greater
demand and the elimination of copayments created supply bottlenecks which the Government now wants
to overcome through the creation of a Seguro Basico de Salud (SBS). The SBS would be aimed at
improving coverage, providing timely financing for key medical supplies, providing incentives for greater
effort by providers and simplifying the bureaucratic procedures for the effective delivery of a basic
package of services similar to that recommended by the WDR 93.
Information, monitoring and accountability. Information systems are weak due to lack of use and
duplication as every program attempts to develop its own information system. Accountability is weak
due to lack of clarity of responsibilities following the 1994-6 decentralization process, and due to lack of
linkages between financing and responsibilities. The government plans to streamline and strengthen the
health information systems and reinvigorate the use of information for decision making at the local level.
It also attempts to pilot -through this project-the use of performance agreements that would clarify
accountability and link funding with results.
Financing of the program. The Ministry of Health estimates that it will require investments of around
$150-200 million over 8-10 years in three priority areas: Immunizations, endemic disease control and
primary health care. Estimated available funds for the next five years are enough to cover these
requirements. Potential contributions include $50 million from IDA (phase I and phase II of an APL),
$45 million from IDB (7 years), $30 million from the European Union (this is at an early stage of
identification), and $30 million from bilaterals (an average of 6 years). If all of these projects come to
fruition, expected annual disbursements would be around US$25 million. This is twice as much as the
peak investment received by the sector in any year during the 1990s.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                  Page 7
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
I. Coverage and quality improvements of the health services and empowerment of communities
1. Support the implementation of a new medium term plan for immunizations that will: (i) create the
capacity to develop and implement immunization policies; (ii) strengthen health services to improve
vaccination coverage and introduce new vaccines; and (iii) strengthen the information and
surveillance systems.
2. Implement new strategies for the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness and for the Mother-
Baby Package through: (i) strengthening program management to plan, coordinate and supervise
activities; (ii) development of norms, protocols and supervision instruments; (iii) training of regional
and local level staff; and (iv) use of conventional and new mechanisms to enhance two-way
communications with indigenous populations.
3. Provide resources to finance demand-driven local subprojects to strengthen inter alia the quality of
maternal and child services; the development of social communication activities to strengthen the
information, voice and empowerment of beneficiaries; and the implementation of new instruments of
health sector management.
II. Strengthening local capacity to respond to health needs
1. Support the implementation of a basic health insurance system (SBS) by: (i) supporting the creation
of a unit to administer and modernize the system; (ii) developing and managing the information
system; and (iii) providing technical assistance to municipalities.
2. Strengthening the development of the management information system by: (i) supporting the design
and implementation of new modules related to the programs supported by the reform; and (ii)
invigorating the analysis and use of MIS reports at the local level.
3. Strengthening the capacity and accountability of the health districts to manage and supervise the
implementation of project activities. The activity will include the introduction of performance
contracts that will quantify targets, assign specific responsibility for achieving those targets and
assign resources to achieve those results.
III. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Finance the establishment and operation within the Ministry of Health of a management structure
appropriate for the coordination of all project activities and the monitoring and evaluation of the project in
accordance with the project performance benchmarks.
Indicative             Bank-   % of Sank-
Component                 Sector        Costs      % of    financing   financing
W(US$M      Total    (US$M)
I. Increasing coverage and quality of
the health services and empowerment
of communities.                  HB/HT              36.6    83.18        18.4     73.6
II. Strengthening local capacity to
respond to health needs         HBIHT/HE/BB          5.0    11.36         4.3     17.2
Ill. Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation                          HE               2.4      5.45        2.3      9.2
Total      44.0    100%        25.0      100%
HB: Basic Health; HE: Health; BB: Public Sector Management



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                               Page 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project: The project supports the
implementation of recent reformn legislation that decentralized the health sector and established a new
system of health sector financing. Specifically it will support: (i) the legislation that decentralized the
health sector (Ley de Participacion Popular and Ley de Descentralizaciin Administrativa) and the decree
which fine-tuned the structure and role of the Departmental Health Authorities and re-created Health
Districts; and (ii) thel999 decree of the Seguro Bdsico that expands the coverage of the SNMN, and
modernizes payment mechanisms.
3. Benefits and target population: The project would benefit all Bolivian children under 5 and all
mothers using public health services. The immunization, IMCI and MBP sub-components will have a
national scope and directly reduce the likelihood of death and illness among children and mothers. The
immunizations subcomponent will also benefit approximately one third of the population which live in
areas of high incidence of yellow fever and hepatitis B. During phase I of the APL, the subprojects will
benefit the population of 5 departments (La Paz ,Cochabamba, Santa Cruz, Oruro and Chuquisaca), that
include about 80% of the mothers and children of the country. Local government would also benefit from
the component to strengthen local capacity to respond to health needs. This component will increase the
effectiveness and efficiency of the health services by reinforcing the decentralization process, improving
the problem-solving capacity at the department and district level and improving the systems of financing.
The main long-term benefits would be improved welfare arising directly and indirectly from the reduction
of mortality and the burden of disease. Benefits would also include a more effective use of public and
donor funds. The benefits would be concentrated among the poor as: (i) the project interventions aim to
expand services that are already available to the better-off (hence the expansion will go to those as yet
unserved), and (ii) the subprojects will be targeted using a poverty index.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3.0 years (APL I)
Executing agencies: The Ministry of Health through the Health Reform Unit (Unidad de Reforma de
Salud -URS) would carry out the project in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to IDA.
Key instruments for the execution of the project would be: (i) annual operating plans to be used by all
departmental and district level implementing agencies; and (ii) performance agreements to bind all
departmental agencies to the achievement of agreed upon health results. The Bolivian Social Investment
Fund (FIS) would carry out the execution of health subprojects in accordance with a Subsidiary
Agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and FIS under terms and conditions
which shall be approved by IDA. It was agreed at negotiations that the agreement would be renewed
yearly contingent upon FIS's satisfactory performance. The immunizations activities will receive
technical assistance from PAHO.
Operational Manual. The project would use an operational manual that covers all aspects of project
implementation, including but not limited to: organizational and management structures, supervision and
evaluation mechanisms; targeting and other criteria for resource allocation; eligibility criteria for health
subprojects and the measures to be taken to ensure that the environment will not be negatively affected;
procedures for the formulation of annual implementation plans; financial, accounting and auditing
procedures; procurement procedures and standard bidding documents; and a menu of eligible
investments. The subsidiary agreement to be signed with FIS will require FIS to utilize the operations
manual.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. This project is piloting aperformance-driven Development
Credit Agreement (DCA). The agreement is flexible in relation to the use of inputs and processes, but is
strict in the achievement of targets in the eight performance criteria of annex 1. In order to convey the
message about the need to obtain results, the MSPS will sign and monitor Performance Agreements
focussing on the eight criteria with Prefectos. The URS will be responsible for project monitoring.
Progress reports, including monitoring indicators, will be sent by the URS to the Bank every six months.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                               Page 9
Impact Evaluation. The Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) of 1998, provides a strong baseline for
phase I of the APL. Infant and child mortality estimates from this survey will be compared with results of
a survey to be carried out in 2001. At negotiations, the government gave assurances that data for 2001
using a methodology comparable to that of the 1998 DHS, would be available in the first quarter of 2002.
To measure subproject impact, a baseline and control group would be established during the first year of
implementation. In the last year of execution, a representative sampling study would be carried out for
the different types of subprojects to measure the impact of investments on selected indicators. The
preparation of the baseline would take into account: (i) ethnicity and gender; (ii) recommendations of
impact evaluations of the FIS, PROISS and PSH projects; and (iii) studies of coverage and quality in
service delivery and service demand carried out during project preparation.
Procurement. The procurement of works, goods and consultant services would be carried out in
accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement (dated January 1995, revised January and August,
1996, September 1997 and January, 1999), and the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants (January 1997, revised September 1997), as well as by the provisions stipulated in the Credit
Agreement. These procedures are detailed in Table A of Annex 6. The supervision of procurement and
hiring processes would be the responsibility of the Reform Unit and the FIS (in the case of the health
subprojects), for all resources transferred under its administration. The specific procedures would be
detailed in the Operational Manual and would include the use of Standard Bidding Documents,
previously approved by IDA for each procurement method to be used.
Accounting, Financial Reports, and Auditing. For the purposes of carrying out the project two Special
Accounts would be opened and maintained in US Dollars at the Banco Central de Bolivia on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. One of the accounts would be for the use of the URS, the other for FIS
(the latter for health subprojects). Deposits into the special accounts and their replenishments, up to the
authorized allocations set out in the Disbursement Letter, will be made initially on the basis of
Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other documentation as
specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Once the accounting and financial management systems of the
URS and of FIS are deemed compliant with LACI requirements, and are certified as such by IDA, a
migration to a PMR-based type of disbursements may be implemented as described hereafter.
The Financial Management Specialist for Bolivia conducted a review of the accounting, controls over
disbursements and resources, planning and budgeting as well as the level of administrative staff of the
URS and FIS. It was determined that both entities have in place accounting and internal control systems
that accord with such accounting standards or agreed format and that reliably record and report all assets
and liabilities and financial transactions of the project, and the entity in the case of the FIS, including
those transactions involving the use of Bank funds; and provide sufficient financial information for
managing and monitoring project activities.
Migration to LACI. During negotiations it was agreed that within a year from the date of effectiveness
the URS and FIS would complete their action plans for both entities to prepare quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs). Each of these reports would show: (i) actual sources and applications of
funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period, and projected sources and applications of
funds for the project for the following six-months; (ii) list separately expenditures financed out of the
credit during the period covered by the report and expenditures proposed to be financed during the
following six-month; (iii) describe physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for
the period covered, and explain variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation
targets; and (iv) set forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts
financed from the credit, for the period covered.
Audit Arrangements. An independent external auditing firm, satisfactory to IDA, would be hired to carry
out annual audits of the project (both the URS and FIS). IDA's Financial Accounting, Reporting and



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                          Page 10
Auditing Handbook (FARAH), published in January 1995, would be used by external auditors. Audit
reports would be presented to IDA no later than six months after the closing date of the previous fiscal
year. It was agreed at negotiations that the audit for the first year should be contracted before project
effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Lending Instrument. The team and the Government considered different options. As the needs are large,
the option of a traditional investment operation was initially favored by some in the Government (there
was talk of a PROISS II), the option of an adjustment operation to introduce new refonns was also
explored. An APL was preferred because it offers greater flexibility for implementation. The reforms
sought by the project in the near term require the willing participation of municipalities and communities
- an adjustment operation creates incentives for Central Government but does not provide incentives for
the participation of local governments and communities. Instead, MAR will give preferential access to
reformers.
Front-loading of reforms. Some issues in the sector require legislative reform and important changes in
the operation of social security and of human resources management. The team considered the option of
front-loading these reforms. This option was rejected for two reasons. First, the proposed project already
contains the most crucial reforms (establishment of IMCM, MBP, the SBS and the health districts), and
overloading the project could distract attention and effort from them. Second, reforms in social security
and human resources management are "second generation" reforms and are better dealt with as part of the
"second phase" of the APL. The IDB loan will finance all required studies in the areas of social security
reform and reform of human resource management to identify the needed reforms.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed       .   Integrated Health Development Project (PROISS) -       S                S
Cr. 2092. (Closed December 1998)
.  Integrated Child Development Project (PIDI)- Cr.        S                S
2531
a   Education Reform Project - Cr. 2650                    S                S
.   Rural Water and Sanitation Project (PROSABAR) -
Cr. 2806                                               U                S
Other development  .   PSF (Basic services and institutional strengthening program).
agencies                Total of $44 million. The project was paralyzed for over a year for fiduciary and
IDB                     programmatic reasons and is expected to reinitiate activities soon.
*   PROAGUAS (Basic Sanitation Small Municipalities)
Total of $55 million. Under preparation.
*  Escudo Epidemiol6gico y Apoyo a /a Refoirna de Salud (Endemic Disease Project). Total of
$45 million. Begins implementation in 1999.
USAID               *  CCH (Infant and Community Health Project). Total of $28 million; annual disbursements of
$2 million. The project was stopped in 1998 and is being restructured to align it better with
the new institutional setup of the health sector. Wiill reinitiate activities in 1999.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design reflects lessons learned from international interventions in countries with high
mortality rates, from IDA's experience with the Bolivian health sector (under PROISS) and from the
experience of other large projects that are supporting the public health sector (PCF, CCH and FIS).
A. International Lessons
Child Mortality. Every year about 12 million children under 5 die, 70 percent from diarrhea, pneumonia,
measles, malaria, malnutrition, or a combination of these conditions - all of them preventable or treatable.
An Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) is increasingly being adopted in many
developing countries to address child mortality problems. The IMCI aims to reduce mortality from
prevalent illnesses in children under 5 years of age; through integrated case management of the 5 most
important causes of childhood deaths: acute respiratory infections (ARI), diarrhea, measles, malaria, and
malnutrition. The IMCI strategy combines improved management of childhood illnesses with aspects of
nutrition, immunization and several other important influences on child health, including maternal health.
The IMCI guidelines are a simplified system of diagnosis and treatment that is designed for use by health
workers with limited training and little or no laboratory support.
Safe Motherhood. The Safe Motherhood initiative, launched in 1987, a global partnership sponsored by
UNICEF, UNFPA, the World Bank, WHO, IPPF, and the Population Council emphasize the following
lessons: (i) Complications of pregnancy and childbirth are the leading causes of disability and death
among women 15-49 in developing countries; (ii) third of pregnancies world-wide are unwanted. The
most common reason leading to unwanted pregnancies and to unsafe abortion is non-use of contraception;
(iii) every time a woman is pregnant she risks a sudden and unpredictable complication. At least 40% of
all pregnant women will experience some type of complications; (iv) high quality services must be
provided by health professionals with midwifery skills; (v) women do not seek services because of:
distance, cost, multiple demands over their time; women's lack of decision making power; and the poor
quality of services. The Baby-Mother Package recommended by the Safe Motherhood Partners includes:
(i) before and after pregnancy: Family planning; (ii) during pregnancy: Antenatal care and counseling;
(iii) during Childbirth: Skilled care during labor and delivery. Skilled attendants should have access to a
functioning emergency and transport system so that they can refer women to an appropriate health facility
for higher level medical care such as Cesarean delivery or blood transfusion when necessary; (iv) after
Delivery: Postpartum care, including immediately after childbirth and a visit within six weeks; (v)
throughout the reproductive life span: management of complications from unsafe abortions. Services
require staff who are trained to treat complications; appropriate equipment; protocols for care; and
effective referral networks.
Special program for Vaccines and immunization. PAHO established the Expanded Program on
immunization in 1977 and has achieved great successes, including raising coverage in, Latin America, for
basic vaccines from 25% to over 80% and eradicating poliomyelitis. Lessons learned include: (i)
countries with a weak capacity need support for program management and for procurement; (ii)
commitment by national governments is key for success; (iii) effective surveillance, including by the
private sector and community groups is crucial for notification and instilling a culture of prevention; (iv)
effective immunization programs can rapidly reduce mortality especially when the initial rate is very
high.
B. Lessons learned from PROISS - CR.2092 BO (from ICR): (i) projects should be simple to
administer and to supervise; (ii) project objectives should be well defined and should be clear to all
involved; there should also be early agreement on and dissemination of performance indicators; (iii)
successful implementation requires: Client orientation; flexible management; involvement of all levels of
staff in planning; decentralization of decision making, financial resources and procurement capabilities
within clear operational plans with strong lines of communication; use of reward systems linked to



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                Page 12
performance; (iv) management contracts require very strong commitment from high levels of Government
to be successful; (v) salary supplements must be managed within a clear and transparent policy linking
them to performance or location to be successful.
C. Lessons learned from PROISS, PSF, CCH and FIS: PROISS and the other two main health sector
projects had a rigid and top-down design. All planning was made centrally, and communities participate
only at the execution stage. The projects have been slow to implement, and many investments are
underutilized (e.g. health centers unnecessarily built in the proximity of a hospital). The construction of
almost 100 PSF-financed clinics has been paralyzed for almost two years. FIS on the other hand has built
on demand by communities and has been agile, but its investments suffer from problems of sustainability,
and are often insufficiently connected with the MOH's policy framework. The new project will use a
bottom-up approach, with the requirement that municipalities provide for the financial sustainability of
investments (through enforceable arrangements based on voluntary earmarking of future transfers) and
the development of new instruments (SBS and Management Contracts) for the exercise of the MOH's
normative and regulatory role.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
* the Government has given a high priority to this project in the context of the CAS discussions. It has
approved two supreme decrees setting the legal stage for project implementation;
*  the Ministry of Health has put together a strong team of counterparts for the implementation of this
project;
*  The Ministry of Finance has made a firm commitment to increase financing for vaccines and will
open a budget line to make this financing transparent (see Annex 11);
*  FIS has also assigned strong counterparts and has shown flexibility to deal with project preparation
needs;
*  Health Authorities from 5 Departments have shown great interest to participate in the project by
organizing workshops, and preparing implementation plans.  Three of the prefects have also
expressed their support for the project in written correspondence and by assigning counterpart funds
for 1999.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*  strengthening coordination of interventions across sectors and ensuring a holistic view of health status
development based on results;
*  ability to leverage project results in the overall development objectives;
* networking and knowledge management capabilities to learn from other countries undergoing similar
processes and other sectors of the Bolivian economy;
*  mobilization of high-quality technical assistance for institutional improvements;
*  ability to mobilize resources and encourage donor coordination.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4a)
Provided that the project is able to meet its performance targets, the internal rate of return is estimated to
be 40 percent. The main source of the benefits, by far, is from an expected reduction in the number of
deaths of children under 5 from acute respiratory infections, severe diarrhea and perinatal causes. Over
the course of the project period, a little over 24,800 deaths are expected to be averted, which works out to
a yearly reduction of a little over 9 percent from the 67,000 deaths that occur each year in Bolivia from
these causes. The child mortality rate would be expected to decline as a result of this program from 96



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                               Page 13
per thousand to 91 per thousand. While there is expected to be some reduction in maternal mortality, the
absolute number of deaths averted is small (maternal mortality being a rare event).
The cost-benefit analysis contains two noteworthy features. First, the calculation of the economic
benefits attempts to link the value of the benefits to achievement of the performance targets. Second, the
analysis takes note of the inherent uncertainty concerning key assumptions by specifying probability
distributions for the key assumptions and performing a monte carlo simulation of 1,000 iterations. This
generates not a single value for the internal rate of return and the deaths averted, but a distribution of
values. Following this approach, one can conclude that the mean value of the estimated internal rate of
return is 40 percent. For 80 percent of the 1,000 iterations, the estimated internal rate of return exceeds
28 percent and the deaths averted exceeds 23,900.
2. Financial (Fiscal impact-See Annex 4b))
Public health expenditures in Bolivia, at less than 1% of GDP, are low compared with a Latin American
average of 3-4 percent. Over the medium run, the project and the policies supported by it, will increase
public expenditures by 0.1 to 0.2 percent of GDP. Increase public expenditures fall under three main
categories: (i) vaccines: the project will rebuild the immunizations component and the Treasury will
strongly increase its participation in financing reaching US$4 million in 2002 - this amount is expected to
be maintained over time, and to suffice for the purchase of all needed vaccines; (ii) SBS: Municipalities
finance these expenditures; they spent an estimated US$6 million during 1998 and are expected to
increase their expenditure reaching US$14 million in 2001 and over US$20 million in 2009; (iii)
Operations and Maintenance of subprojects: these expenditures depend on funds from municipalities,
departments and communities. Funding from municipalities is included in the SBS, and is enforceable
through the requirement that all municipalities receiving subprojects should sign an agreement with the
Treasury requesting that a larger fraction of transfers be earmarked for health (and deposited in a health-
only account). Funds from regional governments are less likely to be available, and have not been
included in the estimation.
The estimates are presented in Annex 4b and are based on projections by UDAPE for the growth of GDP
and of fiscal expenditures. Project activities are found to have a small and manageable fiscal impact.
Total public health ratios remain low in comparison with other Latin American countries.
* Central Government health expenditures (net of non-health expenditures currently found in the
budget of the MSPS) remain approximately constant as a fraction of GDP and increase only slightly
(by about one percentage point) as a fraction of central government expenditures;
* Total government expenditures (including municipal expenditures) in health remain approximately
constant as a fraction of GDP;
* Municipal spending in health grows as a fraction of total government spending in health.
3. Technical:
The appropriateness of (i) the protocols for mother and child care; (ii) the coverage and payment
mechanisms of the SBS; and (iii) the proposed logistics of the immunizations program were analyzed and
found to be satisfactory. Details are in the project files.
4. Institutional:
Significant project management capacity has been developed during the Integrated Health Development
Project and several Social Investment Fund projects. Project management capacity is strong at the
Central level and variable at the departmental level. Departmental planning and management capacity
will be strengthened as needed. Technical assistance will be provided to strengthen the capacity of
departments, municipalities, and communities to prepare, appraise and supervise subprojects.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                 Page 14
Institutional capacity is particularly weak in relation to the proposed work program in the EPI, PAHO will
provide technical assistance in the form of six long-term consultants.
5. Social:
During project preparation, two substantive studies were carried out to detect the relevant cultural patterns
of users and of providers of health care, and to understand gaps that impede the improvement and use of
health services generally, and particularly for Quechua and Aymara populations. These studies included a
bibliographic review of prior work carried out in Bolivia, surveys and focus groups of beneficiaries and
health personnel. The recommendations of the studies were incorporated in the Social Communication
strategy (see annex 13), and in project design especially in the investment and training areas. Operational
experiences and lessons learned in the FIS and the PROISS in relation to indigenous populations were
also taken into account. These aspects of the project design, and the fact that the majority of the project
beneficiaries are indigenous peoples, made it unnecessary to prepare a separate Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan. However, a national Indigenous Peoples Development Plan is now being prepared by
the Borrower and its implementation will be financed by a Learning and Innovation Loan.
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category  [ ] A   [X ] B   [ ] C
Justification/Fundamental .eason for the classification by category: The project does not present any
significant environmental risk. The immunizations component will improve environmental practices by
introducing practices for the disposal of syringes and needles (these do not exist in Bolivia). Subprojects
eligible for financing will be subject to an environmental evaluation criteria as part of its technical
evaluation.  Subprojects should comply with measures to minimize environmental impact.  The
Operational Manual for the project includes the steps to minimize impact, and the criteria to be adopted
for each type of subproject.
Procedures for Environmental Evaluation.  The FIS would carry out the technical evaluation of
investment subprojects, and has Environmental Evaluation Specialists with capacity and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA.  These specialists would carry out environmental evaluations for
subprojects. Beneficiary organizations submitting subprojects for financing would fill out the checklist
for project preparation, which should be used as a guide. This checklist centers around environmental
matters and raises any issues of potential environmental impact. In cases in which the proposed project
has a potential environmental impact, the EA Specialist would review the project and recommend actions
to be taken by the beneficiary organization and/or the municipality, to carry out:  (i) a project
environmental impact analysis, along with a methodology to identify the impact; (ii) a discussion of
existing options to minimize adverse impacts and adapt the project to its environment; (iii) an analysis of
the trade-offs between different options; and (iv) a general vision of any doubts arising from the
information.
Status of other environmental studies. IDA has reviewed the proposed criteria for environmental
evaluation, which is contained in the FIS's Operational Manual (which, in turn, has been found to be
satisfactory to IDA). Community training activities would include an orientation for beneficiaries in
environmental issues; training for personnel in the use of the environmental evaluation criteria would also
be provided, along with educational activities for the communities, both within the support that the
project would provide in Environmental Health.
7. Participatory Approach:
Primary beneficiaries have been consulted through focus groups and through satisfaction surveys to
indigenous women in areas of high child mortality. These instruments will be used annually to monitor
satisfaction with the services supported by the project. Communities, municipalities, departments, donors



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                   Page 15
and NGOs have also been consulted in numerous meetings (around 20 in La Paz and participating
departments) where the objectives and proposed procedures of the project were discussed.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
This project builds up on the heritage of previous Bank projects (such as several projects in support of the
Social Investment Fund and its predecessors) and other operations and policies that have left behind a
strong base from which Bolivia can continue to carry on its primary health care. These projects have
started a culture of management and accountability which did not exist before. A second element in favor
of sustainability is the consultation undertaken during preparation with the various stakeholders involved
at the national, departmental, municipal, and community level who will have key roles in project
implementation. The treasury has now acknowledged its responsibility to finance the immunizations
program. A third element is the requirement of counterpart funds from beneficiaries. This policy is
applied rigorously by FIS for all subprojects and is now well accepted by the communities who are
accustomed to contributing a counterpart for investment costs, and by local governments. For the
implementation of the SBS, the approval of the Supreme Decree of the SBS allows municipalities that
voluntarily join the scheme to earmark a fraction of the transfers received from the treasury to pay for
recurrent costs; it also allows the treasury to deposit the earmarked funds into a special account.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk Rfttfhg           Risk MFinhiaftin Step's
Risks                 _:
Deterioration of the macroeconomic and       M         The HIPC initiative and agreements with the
political situation that could compromise              IMF and the CAS provide a strong incentive
resources for the sector or decrease the               to maintain the macroeconomic course and
government's presence in the-sector.                    dedicate resources to the sector.
Insufficient coordination among Bolivian     H          Development of a strong partnership between
institutions to achieve a holistic approach             Reformers in Bolivian Government, Bank and
to health status development.                           other donors.
Significant delays in national, prefectural  M         A permanent dialogue with the MOF and the
or municipal counterpart funds, leading to              approval of the two Supreme Decrees will
limits on investment levels which in turn               facilitate counterpart financing.
adversely affects the achievement of
indicator targets.
Weak capacity of EPI.                        M          Emphasize the need to maintain the newly
formed team.
Emphasize donor coordination.
Lack of active participation by              H          From the outset, emphasize the development
Departments and Prefects in project                     of management teams at the local level, and
management.                                            enforce PAs with Prefects.
Effectiveness of IMCI, MBP, SBS, PAs         M          Utilize the flexibility of the APL to allow
and MAR are unknown.                                    modifications as lessons become available.
High rotation of key personnel in the        S          Maintain dialogue to minimize the rotation of
Ministry and the PCU.                                   Ministry personnel and to maintain high
technical standards for staffing of URS.
TOTAL RISK                                  Ws         I_
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 16
G: Main Loan Conditions
To reflect the new results-oriented approach for the Association's operations in Bolivia, the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) reflects increased emphasis on results and their monitoring and on simplified
procedures. Performance benchmarks are set out in the DCA (Schedule 4); failure to meet 5 out the 8
benchmarks would allow the Association to suspend disbursements (Section 5.01).  Conversely,
obligations with respect to inputs and procedures have been de-emphasized.  Implementation
requirements have been kept to a minimum, with key project implementation provisions set out in
Schedule 5. The schedule on the withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit has been streamlined by
shifting a number of its provisions to the Disbursement Letter (including the amounts of the authorized
allocations for the two special accounts), which has been incorporated into the DCA by reference
(Schedule 1, Part B, para. 1). The Procurement Schedule (Schedule 3) has been streamlined by the
introduction of a tabular presentation.
H: Readiness for Implementation
T'he project implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
The project complies with all relevant applicable Bank policies.
Team LEder: Daniel Cotlear
Sector Manager/Dir    : Xavier Coll
Country Manager/Dire4 r: Isabel Guerrero



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                           Page 17
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
Narrative Summary       Proposed Targets and         Monitotoing and      Critical Assumptions
Key Indicators             Evaluation
I. Sector-related targets:  *  Accelerated reduction in  ENDSA             *  Macroeconomic
*  Poverty alleviation, as  the infant mortality rate                         stability.
measured by           *  Accelerated reduction in                       *  Continuity and
improvements in the      the maternal mortality                            consistency in the
health situation,        rate                                              development of health
particularly that of                                                       policy.
indigenous women
and children under 5.
II. Program Development .  Infant mortality rate    ENDSA 1998 and 2001   *  Allocation of sufficient
Objectives. (1998- 2008):    reduced from 67 per                               resources from
*  Accelerated reduction    1,000 live births in 1997                          national, prefect, and
of infant and maternal   to 48 per 1,000 live births                        municipal counterpart
mortality rates.         by the end of the                                 funds.
program.
.  Maternal mortality rate    ENDSA 1994 and 2001
reduced from 390 per
100,000 live births to
290 per 100,000 by the
end of the program.
Ill. Project Development  *  Coverage of institutional  SNIS               *  Government interest in
Objectives (1999- 2002)     births attended by                                the health sector
(see targets, definitions   trained health personnel                          reform is maintained.
and baseline in Annex la)   increased.
*  Retention of pregnant    SNIS                  .  Effective coordination
women in prenatal                                in technical assistance
control increased                                 and cofinancing,
*  Early neonatal hospital   Special Surveillance in  especially of the EPI.
mortality reduced      10 largest maternity
*  Number of cases of      hospitals.             *  IMCI will develop an
pneumonia attended in                            important positive
service increased      SNIS                       experience at the
*  Number of cases of                                global level that will
diarrhea treated in    SNIS                       provide synergy with
service increased                                the Bolivian
*  Coverage of DPT, 3      SNIS                      experience.
doses increased (n.b. to                      *  New instruments are
be replaced by new                                successfully launched,
vaccine in the year 2000)                         including SBS, MAR,
*  Pentavalent vaccine                                PAs.
introduced and coverage  SNIS                 *  Satisfactory donor
expanded                                          coordination.
*  Number of municipalities  SNIS
with coverage of DPT 3
less than 80% reduced.
*  Number of municipalities  SNIS
with coverage of
Pentavalent vaccine less
than 80% reduced.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                          Page 18
*  Financing of Expanded    Review of budget
Program of             execution.
Immunization through
national resources
increased.
IV. Results of the      *  Percentage of health                           *  Human resources
Project's Phase 1(1999 -    service supervisions   MBP                        available in a timely
2002)                       carried out by SEDES                              manner.
I. Increased coverage       Mother-Child Units from                       *  Low rotation of key
and quality of health       1% to 50%                                        personnel in the
services network,       *  Percentage of SEDES    MBP                        Ministry and PCU.
promoting health            health personnel trained                      .  Medium to high
communities.               in MBP from 20% to                                commitment by
60%                                              prefects.
*  Percentage of SEDES    iMCI
health personnel trained
in IMCI from 8.8% to
60%
.  Percentage of health
establishments with    IMCI
IMCI essential drugs
from 3% to 50%
*  Proportion of           FIS
subprojects executed in
a timely manner to 80%.
*  Drop out rate BCG-Polio
3 from 12% to 7%.      SNIS
*  Acute flaccid Paralysis    Surveillance
samples per 100,000
children from 0.70 to 1.0.
.  Proportion of suspected
measles cases with 1   Surveilance
adequate blood
specimen collected from
95% to 100%.
II. Local capacity     .  Periodic analysis reports  UGSBS               Adequate local
strengthening to provide   of SBS produced                               management by the
responses to health    .  SBS funds fully         UGSBS                  Ministry of Health and
necessities                executed, from 29% of                         Social Security.
municipalities to 50%
*  Percentage of SEDES    Administrative records
and Districts with
computer equipment
*  Percentage of districts    Administrative records
presenting MAR projects
*  Percentage of SEDES
and districts that carry    Administrative records
out a CAI each semester
*  Percentage of SEDES
that sign performance    Administrative records
agreements with MSPS
*  Percentage of Districts    Administrative records
that sign performance
agreements with SEDES



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                          Page 19
T      <aiid      M-!  : -  oring and  Criical Assumptions
*  Number of SEDES with   Administrative records
a PA compliance rate
higher than 80%
*  Number of districts with   Administrative records
a PA compliance rate
higher than 80%
IV. Project Components                             Progress Report
and Subcomponents:                                 Disbursement Report
I. Increase the coverage
and quality of service  $US18.4 million
networks, promoting
healthy communities.
* Subprojects to
implement IMCI, MBP
y perinatal obstetric
network (MAR)
* Technical assistance
for the implementation
of IMCI - MBP
* Technical assistance
for the EPI
II. Strengthen local
capacity to respond to    US$4.3 million
health necessities
* Basic Health
Insurance and its
financing mechanisms
(SBS)
* Support for the
management of the
National Health
Information System
(SNIS)
* Support for
management and
supervision capacity
*  Studies
Ill. Project Coordination    US$2.3 million        POAs evaluated and
._____   _approved by IDA



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                       Page 20
Annex la: Project Design Summary
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
Performance Benchmarks
The project's success in meeting its objectives will be based on the achievement of the performance
benchmarks described below. Given the uncertainty with the use of new programs, it is expected that
some of these benchmarks will not be reached in any given year. At negotiations it was agreed that the
project would be successful if for the year under review at least 5 of the 8 indicators reach their target. If
they do not, the Bank and the Government would need to decide on the corrective actions required and
the Bank would have the right to suspend disbursements.
Performance Indicators                              Performance Benchmarks
Baseline     1999      2000     2001        2002
1. Coverage of births attended by
trained health personnel          36%         38%       40%       43%        46%
2. Complete prenatal care attendance  28%        30%        32%      36%        40%
3. Early neonatal hospital mortality  14.40      14.00     13.00    12.00       11.00
(per 1,000 live births)
4. Number of pneumonia cases         68,346     85,000    95,000   105,000    115,000
attended in health services
5. Number of diarrhea cases attended    292,417    310,000   340,000  370,000    400,000
in health services
6(a). Three doses DPT coverage          75%         82%
6(b). DPT/Hib/Hepatitis B vaccine                             65%       75%        85%
coverage
7(a). Number of municipalities with     212         200
three doses DPT coverage less than
80%
7(b). Number of municipalities with                            180      119         83
DPT/Hib/Hepatitis B vaccine
coverage less than 80%
8. National financing of vaccines     0.5         2.5        3        3.5         4
(millions of $)
Complementary Provisions
1.     Scope: The coverage for all indicators is national, except for Indicator 3 which is based on the 10
public hospitals with the highest number of births.
2.     Source and methodology: the source of all indicators is SNIS except for Indicator 3 (which is
direct surveillance) and for Indicator 8 for which the source is the Ministry of Finance's executed budget.
If any change is introduced to the methodology for measuring an indicator in any given year, the same
change must be introduced in the data for the previous year to establish the correct increment.
3.     Adjustment to Baseline Data: The Perfornance Benchmarks are calculated on the basis of
baseline data which was estimated as an average for 1996-98. If at a future date the Borrower shows to
the satisfaction of the Association that it is necessary to adjust the baseline data, the corresponding
Performance Benchmarks may be adjusted in such manner as shall be acceptable to the Association.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                             Page 21
4. Definitions:
1.   Coverage of births attended by trained health personnel:
Numerator:   Births attended by trained health personnel.
Denominator: Total number of expected births.
2.   Complete Prenatal Care Attendance:
Numerator:   Number of pregnant women with four prenatal care controls.
Denominator: Number of pregnant women with first prenatal care control.
3.   Early neonatal hospital mortality (per 1,000 live births):
Numerator:   Number of deaths during the first seven days of life.
Denominator: Total number of live births reported at the second and third health facility level.
6 (a) Three doses DPT coverage:
Numerator:   Number of children less than one year of age who received three doses of DPT
vaccine.
Denominator: Total number of children less than one year of age.
6 (b) DPT/HiblHepatitis B vaccine coverage:
Numerator:   Number of children less than one year of age who received three doses of
DPT/Hib/Hepatitis B vaccine.
Denominator: Total number of children less than one year of age.
8.   National financing of vaccines: expenditures on vaccines and syringes financed by the Borrower
from sources other than external grants or loans.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 22
Annex 2a: Project Description
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$ 36.6 million
Component 1: Coverage and quality improvements of the health services and empowerment of
communities.
A.    Demand -driven subprojects for the reduction of child and maternal mortality
This subcomponent would finance investment subprojects and social communication, training or
management strengthening activities. Its objective is to increase the coverage and quality of service
networks, while promoting communication, health education and the development of "voice" to empower
communities. Subprojects types include those for the reduction of cultural barriers, promotion of safe
motherhood, child protection, improved access to services, community participation, outreach services,
communications, service extension and transport in remote areas, and improvements to the environment
and environmental health through small interventions. Some of the subprojects would address specific
local needs to ease implementation of the EPI, IMCI, Basic Health Insurance, and the Maternal Neonatal
Package (including obstetric networks). In view of capacity constraints during stage I of the APL, this
activity will be restricted to five departments.
B.    Strengthening the implementation of IMCI and of the Mother-Baby Package (MBP)
IMCI is the strategy developed by WHO and UNICEF to reduce child mortality and improve health
conditions for children under 5. Its objectives are to: (i) improve the quality of health service attention
for children under 5, with emphasis on primary care; and (ii) integrate all child health services, including
prevention, promotion and community health services. At the national level, the Mother and Child Unit
would receive assistance to strengthen program management, as well as for the development of norms,
protocols, and supervision instruments-including norms to strengthen referrals between first and second
level facilities, to monitor maternal and neonatal mortality in health facilities, and to develop an
accreditation system for maternity wards. At the regional level, the capacity of health service personnel
would be improved through training activities; the existing clinical training network would also be
expanded to include some rural secondary level hospitals. The development and implementation of the
community component of the IMCI would also receive support.
The Maternal-Neonatal Package is the strategy proposed by WHO to reduce maternal and neonatal
mortality rates. Its objectives are to: (i) improve the quality of care in the obstetric network: prenatal,
deliveries, postnatal, and newborn care, with emphasis on first and second levels; and (ii) increase supply
and demand for obstetric services. At the national level, the Mother and Child Unit would be assisted in
defining a policy for safe Motherhood, in strengthening its management, programming of activities, and
implementing a monitoring and supervision system. At the regional level, training would improve the
capacity of health service personnel to initiate the MBP. At the district level, there would be intensive
support to information, education, and communication activities, all of which would be developed with
extensive community participation. The credit would finance technical assistance and information
equipment for the central level; it would finance training, supervision, and IEC for regions and districts.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 23
C.    Support for the medium-term immunization plan (Expanded Program of Immunization-EPI)
Since 1996, immunization coverage has fallen in Bolivia due to institutional weaknesses in the Expanded
Immunization Program (EPI), to insufficient and inconsistent allocation of funds by the government, and
to a lack of a sustained social communications strategy. Field activities have also suffered because of a
lack of support from the regional authorities. Information on coverage is not reliable: official SNIS data
estimates of coverage are double those of survey estimates. Additionally, Bolivia lags behind in the
incorporation of new vaccines now used in much of Latin America, which could contribute significantly
to the reduction of infant mortality. The introduction of a vaccine against invasive diseases due to
Haemophilus influenza type b, considering its impact on a number of pneumonias, could reduce infant
mortality by 4,000-5,000 live births in the second year of its introduction. The vaccines against hepatitis
B and yellow fever could also have a rapid and significant impact in endemic areas. As part of the
project's preparation, the Government-with support from IDA, PAHO, and other donors supporting
immunization programs-has prepared a medium-term immunization plan that responds to the problems
mentioned above with three lines of action:
1. Institutional strengthening of the expanded immunization program to improve adoption
and implementation of immunization policies. The Finance Ministry is committed to a
substantial increase in its support for immunizations, beginning in 1999, and to the creation
of a budget line specifically for vaccines. During the next three years, lines of periodic direct
reporting will be established from the PAI to the Health Minister. A Technical Advisory
Committee will be formed with the participation of Scientific Societies. The EPI team at the
central level will be strengthened: two professionals will be added to the one now in place (to
be financed by MSPS), and short-term  technical assistance will be provided.  Five
epidemiologists (four of which will be financed by PAHO) will be detailed to critical
departments. Training and supervision activities will be carried out at all levels. New
administrative and procurement processes will be established. With immunization targets
included within performance agreements, lines of communication between the center and
departments will be strengthened, and specific responsibilities will be established to reinforce
accountability.   Social communications systems will be established, including the
identification of communication problems with indigenous groups. Basic norms and
practices for biosecurity will be implemented for the management and disposal of syringes
and needles.
2. Strengthening of health services to improve coverage and to introduce new vaccines. As
part of general support to health services, local technical administrative capacity will be
strengthened (see subcomponent TI-C). Systems will be established to identify and respond to
those municipalities with low coverage. The national vaccination scheme will be expanded
to include vaccinations against Haemophilus influenza type b (Hib), and Hepatitis-B; in
endemic zones, vaccinations against yellow fever will be included. The measles vaccine
would be replaced by a combined vaccine against measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR).
Simultaneously, depending on cost, the Hib, DPT and hepatitis-B vaccines would be replaced
by a new five-way vaccine that covers against the same illnesses but is much less traumatic
for mothers and children, and produces less wastage. The cold chain would be renovated,
including the construction or renovation of a national warehouse and five departmental
warehouses. Where necessary, local equipment would be renovated, and storage capacity
increased as required by the new vaccines (which taking individually, are bulkier). Basic
biosecurity practices would be implemented with the acquisition of safe boxes for the
disposal of syringes and needles and with the introduction of the five-year vaccine (which
would reduce the production of waste).



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                             Page 24
3. Strengthening of information and vigilance systems. The weaknesses of the current
information system would be closely studied, a more precise system for registering coverage
would be implemented, and available information would be put to greater practical use.
These actions would be coordinated with other projects and other subcomponents investing in
the surveillance system and with the Seguro Basico de Salud which has the capacity of
improving incentives for the implementation of better information systems.
The implementation of the new immunization plan will be cofinanced by the government, donors, and
IDA. IDA would finance technical assistance, training, and supplies for institutional strengthening and
for improving information systems; part of the renovation of the cold chain; and the initial introduction of
some new vaccines (prices fall rapidly, and the government will assume this responsibility during the
third year of the project).
Project Component 2 - US$ 5.0 million
Component 2: Strengthening Local capacity to respond to health needs
A.    Basic Health Insurance (SBS)
The objective of the SBS is to improve the access of mothers and children to a group of essential services
contributing to the reduction of maternal and child mortality. The SBS will finance materials,
medications, and other non-salary recurrent expenditures. The current National Maternal-Child Insurance
(SNMN) is financed with municipal contributions, equivalent to 3.2 percent of transfers received from
Central Government.
To improve coverage, the government plans to implement the SBS, which includes increased financing,
new economic incentives and improved financial and administrative management. Prices (reimbursement
rates) would be improved to provide incentives for increased supply. Likewise, new services necessary
for implementing IMCI and MBP would be added to the services currently covered by SNMN, such as:
family planning, treatment of STDs and complications of pregnancy, and the diagnosis and treatment of
tuberculosis and malaria. The SBS would also include incentives for improved access through design of
mechanisms for outreach services, thus bringing health services into the community. The SBS would also
strengthen referrals and counter-referrals between primary and secondary levels by paying a premium for
services properly referred. Additionally, the project proposes to define new management and information
mechanisms; these mechanisms would improve community utilization and financial execution. Among
other measures, explicit control and supervision mechanisms will be introduced, including the creation of
a Management Unit for the SBS.
The project would support the design and introduction of: payment mechanisms-including price
calculations, product definitions, copayment calculations, processes of receipt and payment, etc.;
information systems (see SNIS subcomponent); establishment of groups (mancomunidades)of
municipalities and health districts; and the creation of the SBS Management Unit at the ministerial level.
During the design phase, the project would finance technical assistance, training, and study tours. During
the implementation phase, the project would finance training, information systems (hardware, software,
and communications), as well as supervision and monitoring costs. Information systems, payment
mechanisms, and SBS monitoring and supervision should all be put in operation by the project. Further,
the SBS's information systems must be integrated with those of the EPI, IMCI and MBP components, for
efficiency of information collection at the local level (for example, with regard to the vaccination card
and the identification of SBS users).



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                 Page 25
B.    Management Information Systems
An adequate information system is required not only to improve decentralized management, but also to
effectively supervise progress in project implementation. The Ministry of Health has worked for a
number of years with the support of various donors in the construction and improvement of the national
system of health information (SNIS). A network for the national collection and management of
information already exists; the strengthening of this network will complement and improve the SNIS, as
well as the local and Ministerial units which administer and use the system. Current problems include the
excessive aggregation of information, the failure to identify users, low utilization at the local level, and
low quality of registries and SNIS reports.
The project's activities will include: (i) financing the redesign of the SNIS, adding new information
modules to the existing system (specifically, to support the implementation of the SBS, performance
agreements, and monitoring subsystems for the EPI, IMCI, and MBP). Reports will be generated for
local level decision making (District Information Analysis Councils and SEDES), and instruments for
data collection will be simplified; (ii) support for the creation of and training for the new SNIS at
department and district levels, including the purchase of new computer equipment; and (iii) supervision
for the operation of the above-mentioned information subsystems at local levels, (including collection and
the production of municipal, district and departmental level periodic reports).
C.    Strengthening of supervision and local management systems
Most project activities will be executed at the local level. The project will support the development of
management and supervisory capacities at local and (as necessary) departmental levels.
The planning and supervisory capacity of SEDES will be strengthened in the 5 departments where the
project will support field activities. Each SEDES Planning Unit will be provided with one consultant,
reporting to the Director, who will act as Technical Coordinator.  This consultant will facilitate
coordination of SEDES staff who will organize and supervise project-supported activities. Districts in
project areas will receive support to carry out project related activities and to improve local level
supervision. This component will finance regional level technical assistance, training, equipment and
operational expenditures. At the district level it will finance training, equipment, and in select cases,
small civil works operational expenditures.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.4 million
Component 3: Coordination, monitoring, and evaluation of the Project
The project will be executed at local levels of the health system, particularly in SEDES, districts,
municipalities and health establishments. Project coordination is described in Annex 2b. Monitoring and
evaluation will be key activities in this project. The URS will maintain a system (based on the SNIS) to
monitor project progress. Specialized studies will also be carried out as needed. Impact evaluation will
be based on Performance Agreements (PA) have been designated as the primary instrument of
supervision and strategic control, as represented by contracts signed between authorities seeking to
achieve shared objectives. These PAs will allow authorities from distinct levels of the health system to
coordinate their actions for sectoral and project objectives and will strengthen supervision mechanisms
by: (i) operationalizing ministerial policy directives to the SEDES and health establishments, particularly
with regard to the SBS and the fortification of local health networks; and (ii) explicitly assigning
resources to expected results. The activities to support PA implementation include: (i) training of agents
involved in the system of contracts-Ministry, SEDES, districts, health establishments, municipalities,
NGOs and other actors and relevant organizations; and (ii) support for the supervision and monitoring of
these instruments.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 26
Annex 2b: Project Description
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
Project Management and Operational Manual
Executing Agencies. The execution of the Health Subprojects would be the responsibility of the FIS.
The FIS would carry out the invitation and evaluation of bids, contracting, and disbursements in
accordance with its amended Operational Manual. For each health subproject, contracting would be
undertaken for civil works, goods, and consultants, using procurement procedures and SBDs satisfactory
to the Bank. The remainfing components would be carried out by the Unit and its departmental
representatives through annual operating plans (POAs in Spanish) and annual budget ceilings as specified
in the Operational Manual.
Project Coordination. The project would be coordinated by the URS of the Ministry of Health. The
URS Director would be directly accountable to the Minister of Health. The Unit would have an
Administrative-Financial Manager responsible for the management of financial, physical and human
resources and a Technical Manager responsible for coordinating the specialized and technical work of the
specialists for each component. The specific roles and responsibilities of URS staff, as well as operative
procedures for project management and implementation are detailed in the Operational Manual,
presented to IDA during negotiations.
The Unit would coordinate with the SEDES (departmental health services), health districts,
municipalities, and other sector-related local actors and institutions. To facilitate these relations within
the project's five departments (health regions), each department will have a technical coordinator
(working under the SEDES Director) and an administrator financed by the project as part of the Reform
Unit. More specifically, the Reform Unit would have the following responsibilities:
*  Promote the project nationally and locally;
*  Carry out the project's management, including maintaining a monitoring system for impact, physical
progress and financial management and preparing implementation reports twice a year;
-  Supervise, the execution of the investments component to be carried out by FIS;
*  Prepare terms of reference, for the hiring of consultants who will assist in implementing the project
components (other than the subprojects), and supervise their work;
*  Ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines;
*  Ensure the auditing of project accounts and other audits required by the Bank (including FIS's);
*  Coordinate Bank supervision missions, and
*  Organize the impact evaluation of the project.
Targeting Resources for Health Subprojects. Investment resources for subprojects would be allocated
during the first year of implementation for each participating health district and SEDES (health regions).
To ensure that a substantial amount of resources is allocated at the local level 40% of the investment
resources would go to the health districts, 40% to the municipalities and 20% to the SEDES. The
financial ceiling for each locality would be calculated on the basis of municipal population figures and
human development indicators with a 30/70 weight, respectively.  To ensure that funds are not
underutilized, and to provide an incentive for effective implementation, if despite reasonable support from
the Project Management the participating health districts and SEDES do not program their full allocation
or are not capable of executing fully the programmed resources, upon review, funds can be reallocated to
stronger performers. The allocation criteria, formula, review and reallocation procedures are part of the
Operational Manual.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 27
Direct Beneficiaries. Direct beneficiaries would be ultimately the population in the target areas as
improved access, coverage and positive behavioral changes would result in better prevention and control
of diseases. Subprojects can be requested by district and departmental service providers (private and
public), health districts and SEDES, NGOs and community groups.
Service Providers/Contractors (ejecutores). Certified health providers at the district and departmental
level; health sector professionals, consultants and private contractors at the national level (when
applicable) are eligible to carry out subprojects funded.
Cofinancing. Minimum cofinancing in the amount of 20% of the total subproject cost to cover the
required administrative and supervision costs would be part of the eligibility requirements. To encourage
investments other than infrastructure and equipment cofinancing requirements for these types of
subprojects would be higher (up to 30%). It is expected that municipal or departmental governments (in
the case of SEDES) in accordance with the Leyes de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa y Ley de
Participaci6n Popular would cofinance the majority of subprojects. FIS would be responsible for the
registration of subprojects with the Secretariat of Public Investments and for handling municipal and
departmental counterpart for subprojects.
Subproject Cycle. In close collaboration with the IDA team and the Reform Unit, FIS has adapted its
project cycle to incorporate project and Ministry requirements. Following is a summary of key aspects.
Promotion. The project will begin with a national communications campaign to inform the target
population about the project objectives, activities and components. Following this campaign, the Unit
and FIS, through a team of consultants and health specialists carefully selected and trained to assist
participating health districts and SEDES during the process, would assemble a portfolio of eligible
subprojects or investment ideas in accordance with project objectives and the menu contained in the
Operational Manual. Based on the Decreto Supremo 25233 which specifies their roles and actions, the
health districts and SEDES would use as a starting point the district health plans contained in the
Municipal Development Plan (PDM in Spanish) or, when applicable, the Municipal Annual Investment
Plan (POA in Spanish). Representatives from the Unit working closely with local FIS representatives
and health personnel would visit project areas to transmit and explain subproject eligibility and appraisal
criteria. Technical assistance would be available to health districts, as needed, for subproject formulation.
Technical Criteria for Evaluation. Subprojects eligible for funding would need to be clearly associated
with project goals, components and activities within the target areas in accordance with the menu
contained in the Operational Manual; respond to specific maternal and infant mortality needs identified
and prioritized at the local level in accordance with the Leyes de Decentralizaci6n Administrativa y de
Participaci6n Popular, be formulated as sustainainable, cost-effective technical solutions to local
problems in maternal-child care, and meet other financial and environmental criteria contained in the
Operational Manual.
Appraisal/Approval of Subprojects. In accordance with the Decreto Supremo 25233 subprojects or
investment profiles would be evaluated and approved by the local District Health Council (Concejo
Distrital de Salud). Subprojects approved by the Council would be referred to the corresponding FIS
regional office for funding as agreed with the Ministry. Subprojects presented by the SEDES would be
evaluated and approved by the Ministry and the FIS at the departmental level.
FIS/MSPS Agreement. The Ministry of Health will delegate the execution of the investments component
to the FIS through an inter-institutional agreement. The agreement, which will be reviewed once a year,
based on the performance of FIS, establishes the rights and obligations of both agencies for this project,
including processing times for the processing and delivery of subprojects. It is expected that the
maximum amount of time a subproject would take from beginning to end would be 18 months.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                 Page 28
Project Supervision.  Technical supervision may be contracted out to specialized consultants
(individuals or firms). The Unit would supervise the execution of project components, analyzing
component and subcomponent activities, and guiding implementation through annual plans, budgets, and
reports. The Unit would carefully monitor the utilization and transfer of technical and financial resources,
using a Management Information System. This will be used as the basis for operational decision making,
and for assuring the timely and efficient compliance with project objectives. It would also assure that
relevant information is available for any adjustment of procedures, strategies, or resource use during
project implementation, or for future investments. Supervision would be integrated and horizontal in
nature, such that project implementation should meet the terms and timelines established in the annual
operating plans. Specific procedures and mechanisms will form part of the project's Operational Manual.
Annual Review of Project Implementation. IDA's supervision schedule for the project will include a
minimum of three missions during the first year of implementation, of which one will be theAnnual
Review of Project Implementation, to be carried out in conjunction with the Ministry, the Reform Unit,
the FIS and PAHO (for the EPI component). The project will require extensive and detailed supervision
by IDA, as well as by PAHO for the immunization program, particularly during the first year. During the
second and third years of project execution, at least two missions will be carried out; one of which will be
the Annual Review. The Annual Review for the third year will also include a review of trigger indicators,
an evaluation of the entire project as part of the APL Program, and the preparation of recommendations
for the commencement and execution of Phase II of the Reform Program.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation will measure not only
procedures but also results, thereby allowing the project to learn. A monitoring program is under
development and will include all output and input variables detailed in Annex 1. For subprojects,
performance will be measured, and evaluations will be used to make recommendations for future annual
ex-post evaluations using random samples of concluded subprojects, as well as beneficiary evaluations.
Annual ex-post and beneficiary evaluations will include physical audits of a sample of investment
subprojects, with size and characteristics acceptable to IDA. Project funds will be utilized for this
purpose: recommendations and lessons learned will be included in the following annual operating plan.
Periodic surveys of supervision within the same components will also be carried out according to
specified indicators.
The principal tool of project evaluation will be the comparison of 1998 DHS results with those of the
2001 DHS, along with the impact indicators agreed upon for each year of project subcomponent
execution. To measure subproject impact, a baseline and control group would be established during the
first year of implementation. In the last year of execution, a representative study would be carried out for
the different types of subprojects, randomly selected, to measure the impact of investment on selected
indicators. The preparation of the baseline would take into account: (i) ethnicity and gender; (ii)
recommendations of impact evaluations of the FIS, PROISS, and PSF; and (iii) studies of coverage and
quality in service delivery and service demand carried out during project preparation. To measure the
progress in indicators for other subcomponents, reports prepared by the SNIS (the National Information
System) will be taken into consideration. At the end of the third year of the project, depending on the
final evaluation, these indicators may be revised.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                           Page 29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
;   -- 0                             ~~~~~~~~Total
Projectd Cost-By Component                                        US $ thousands
i. Increasing coverage and quality of the health services
and promotion of health communities
A. Implementation of the new medium term plan for the
Expanded Immunization Program (EPI)                                              20.6
B. Implementation of the IMCI strategy and MBP
Package                                                                           1.2
C. Subprojects for the reduction of child and Maternal
Mortality                                                                        14.8
Subtotal                                                                             36.6
II. Strengthening local capacity to respond to health needs
A. Implementation of the Basic Health Insurance                                      1.0
B. Impulse to the Management Information Systems                                     0.7
C. Strengthening of local management systems                                         3.3
Subtotal                                                                              5.0
Ill. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation                                          2.4
Total Cost                                                                           44.0
Total
Project Cost by Category            .US $ mMion
Civil Works                                                                           1.0
Goods                                                                                22.0
Consultant's services                                                                 6.0
Health Subprojects                                                                   14.0
Operating costs                                                                       1.0
Total Project Costs                                              44.0



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                 Page 30
Annex 4a: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
Economic Costs
Costs (as well as benefits) are calculated for a 10-year period. The costs of the project up to the end of
2002 are as presented in Annex 5. After 2002, the recurrent costs include $4 million a year for the
expanded immunization program and between 25 and 35 percent of the final year investment of $12
million. The relatively high percentage of recurrent costs reflects the need for the Government to
continue the activities programmed in this project so as to achieve an impact. The assumption concerning
the proportion of final year investment likely to be needed in subsequent years is the only factor that
generates a distribution of costs. This proportion is assumed to be unifornly distributed between 25 and
35 percent.
Economic Benefits
The calculation of economic benefits involves five steps:
a)     Selecting the key performance indicators to be used in the analysis (shown in Annex 1);
b)     Specifying the relation between performance indicators and deaths averted;
c)     Attributing an economic value to deaths averted;
d)     Assigning a range of plausible values for the key assumptions, including the values that the
indicators would take on in the absence of the program;
e)     Performing a monte carlo simulation to generate a distribution of estimated values of the internal
rate of return and deaths averted.
These steps are discussed below.
Specifying the relation between performance indicators and number of deaths averted
Each one of the key performance indicators in Table A.4. 1 relates to coverage or cases treated. The effect
that a change in the value of an indicator has on the number of deaths depends upon the prevalence of the
illness in the population and the mortality rate for those who do not receive attention - either for births or
illnesses as the case may be. In the analysis, deaths of children due to pneumonia or acute diarrhea are
assumed to occur only if they are not treated. Maternal deaths can occur whether or not the birth is
attended by trained personnel, but are assumed to be substantially lower for institutional births. In
addition to the positive effect on maternal mortality, having an institutional birth is assumed to reduce
infant deaths from perinatal causes.
The prevalence rate for ARI is estimated to be approximately 15 percent in the population under 5 and the
prevalence rate for episodes of diarrhea is 25 percent. The mortality rates for those who do not receive
attention for ARI is estimated to be 29 percent. This prevalence rate and mortality rate for those not
receiving attention, combined with the current coverage rate of approximately 55 percent, generates the
28,000 deaths that are currently considered to be attributable to ARI. For the case of diarrhea, children
are assumed to have on average three episodes a year. Thirty percent of the cases result in dehydration
and 5 percent of these 30 percent result in severe dehydration. The mortality rate for cases of dehydration
that are not treated is assumed to be 10 percent, while that of severe cases not treated is assumed to be 80
percent. This pattern of prevalence and mortality for those not treated, combined with the current
coverage rate of approximately 33 percent, generates the roughly 24,000 deaths a year that are currently
considered to be attributable to diarrhea.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 31
The introduction of the expanded vaccine is expected to lead to a reduction between 6,196 and 12,392
cases of IRA. This is a new vaccine and there has not yet been a lot of experience on the effect of
introducing such a vaccine into a population like Bolivia's. The range reported above lies between a low
case (of 1,899 cases averted), based on the pattern observed in Chile, and a high case (of 19,333 cases
averted) based on the pattern observed in a Navajo population. The Navajo case is probably an extreme
one as that population had some of the highest estimates of meningitis ever recorded. In the simulation,
meeting performance targets related to immunization coverage is linked directly to a reduction in IRA
prevalence.
Having traced out the effect of the value of a key performance indicator on the number of deaths, the
calculation of deaths averted is obtained by comparing the number of deaths with and without the
program. This follows directly from the difference in the values of the key performance indicators with
and without the project.
Note that all the economic benefits are related to deaths averted. No attempt to calculate the benefits
from a reduction in morbidity was made. This was justified on two grounds. First, given the high level of
mortality in Bolivia, scaree resources should first go to averting deaths before they are directed to
reducing morbidity. Second, the calculation of economic benefits only from deaths averted can be
interpreted as representing a lower bound on the true benefits. If the estimated internal rate of return
appears sufficiently high to justify the project even at this lower bound, it is not necessary to undertake
the more complicated analysis of determining the benefits from the reduction in morbidity.
Attributing an economic value to deaths averted
The economic benefits of averting a death of a mother or a child are assumed to be the present discounted
value of the income that person would earn during their added lifetime. In both cases, the discount rate
was set at 10 percent.
The particular assumptions used to calculate the economic benefit to averting the death of a mother are as
follows. To account for lower female incomes, the base income is assumed to be 70 percent of per capita
GDP. Per capita CiDP is currently around $1000. To account for the probability that lower income
women are more likely to be the ones benefiting from the reduction in maternal mortality, the base
income is multiplied by a factor that varies uniformly from 60 to 75 percent. Over the course of the
woman's lifetime income is assumed to grow from between 1 to 3 percent. Women are assumed to be
working and to have an additional 29 years of earning income (reflecting the assumptions that the woman
would otherwise have died at age 31 and would be expected to work until age 60).
The assumptions used to calculate the economic benefit to averting the death of a child are as follows.
The children are assumed to begin work at age 18 and work until age 60. To account for the probability
that it is children from lower income families that are likely to benefit from the reduction in child
mortality, the base income is assumed to vary uniformly between 60 and 75 percent of per capita GDP.
The base income is assumed to grow between 1 and 2 percent per year.
Assigning a range of plausible values for the key assumptions
There are three sets of variables where assumptions must be made. As discussed above, there are
variables such as the prevalence of the illness in the population and the mortality rate when the child does
not receive attention that affects how setting values of key performance indicators translates into number
of deaths. There are the assumptions made on the variables affecting the economic valuation of a death
averted. Finally, there are assumptions concerning the values that the key performance indicators could
be expected to attain in the absence of the program. Holding all other assumptions constant, it is the
difference between the values of the key performance indicators with and without the program that leads
directly to the estimates of the number of deaths averted.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                Page 32
The cost-benefit analysis assumes that the values of the key performance indicators would still improve,
even without the project as a result of other improvements taking place in the health sector and in the
economy as a whole. In general, the indicators are assumed to improve by between one half and one
percentage points per year, depending on the indicator in question. For example, in the absence of the
project the percentage of cases of acute respiratory infections not treated is expected to decline from 55 to
50 percent over the ten year period. This compares with an average reduction from 55 to 40 percent with
the project.
Performing a monte carlo simulation to generate a distribution of estimated values of the
internal rate of return and deaths averted.
The following table presents results obtained from a monte carlo simulation where the values of the key
performance indicators of Table A.4. 1 are assumed to lie between the target set forth in Table A.4. 1 and a
lower bound set at 75 percent of the difference between the specified target and its baseline value.
The range of values obtained in the monte carlo simulation is due not only to the variance of the key
performance indicators between the two targets, but also to the range of values assumed in the variables
that are used to calculate the deaths averted and the economic benefits associated with the deaths averted.
The percentiles provide information on the distribution of results. For example, in 20 percent of the trials,
the estimated internal rate of return was less than 28 percent. Conversely, in 80 percent of the trials the
estimated internal rate of return was over 28 percent. The table suggests that there are sizable returns to
the project with plausible ranges of the key variables. The results are conservative in that the simulations
did not assume that all the performance targets were met, but that performance between 75 and 100
percent of the target was achieved. Of course, any performance below that level would result in fewer
deaths averted and correspondingly lower internal rates of return.
Table A.4.1: Results from Monte Carlo Simulations
Internal Rate of Return                     Deaths Averted to Children less than
5 (1999-2002)
Mean                 40%                          Mean                 24,826
Standard deviation   14%                         Standard deviation    1,083
Percentiles
0%                   7            _              0%                   21,440
10%                 23                           10%                  23,443
20%                  28                           20%                  23,919
30%                  31                          30%                  24,251
40%                  35                           40%                  24,546
50%                  39                          50%                  24,818
60%                  42                          60%                  24,099
70%                  46                           70%                  25,342
80%                  52                          80%                  25,737
90%                  60                           90%                  26,282
100%                94                           100%                 28,591
Number of trials     1,000                        Number of trials     1,000



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                                                                                                               Paae 33
Annex 4b: Public Expenditure in Health
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
1997      1998      1999     2000       200i       2002        2003       2004        2005       2006        2007       2008
Without Project
A. Central Government Expenditure in Health (excludes immunizations)  63.2    64.4      79.5      80.0       83.5        89.0       95.2      101.9       109.1      116.7       124.9      133.7
B. Immunizations                                                     2.5       1.5       1.5       1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5        1.5
C. Municipal Government Expenditure in Health                        5.1       5.6       6.1       6.5        7.0         7.7        8.6        9.5        10.5       11.7        13.0       14.4
D. Total Public Expenditure in Health                               70.8      71.5      87.1      92.0       92.0        98.2      1053       112.9       121.1      129.9       139.4      149.6
With Project
A. Central Government Expenditure in Health (excludes immunizations)  63.2    64.4      85.0      90.0       93.0        98.0      104.2      110.9       118.1      125.7       133.9      142.7
B. Immunizations                                                     2.5       1.5       9.0       8.0        7.0         6.5        6.1        6.1         6.1        6.1         6.1        6.1
C. Municipal Government Expenditure in Health                                            9.1      10.0       12.0        15.4       17.1       19.0        21.1       21.2        21.3       21.4
D. Total Public Expenditure in Health                               65.7      65.9    103.1      108.0      112.0       119.9      127.4      136.0       145.2      153.0       161.3      170.2
Increased Expenditures
A. Central Government Expenditure in Health (excludes immunizations)                     5.5      10.0        9.5         9.0        9.0        9.0         9.0        9.0         9.0        9.0
B. Immunizations                                                                         7.5       6.5        5.5         5.0        4.6        4.9         5.2        5.5         5.8        6.1
C. Municipal Government Expenditure in Health                                            3.0       3.5        5.0         7.7        8.6        9.5        10.5        9.5         8.3        7.0
D. Total Public Expenditure in Health                                                   16.0      16.0       20.0        21.7       22.1       23.1        24.1       23.1        21.9       20.6
Of which:
Financed by the Credit and cofinanciers                                                8.4       9.0         8.5         8           8          8          8           8          8           8
Financed by Central Government                                                         4.6       3.5         6.5        6.0        5.6         5.6        5.6         5.6        5.6         5.6
Financed by the Municipalities                                                          3         4           5          8           9          9         11          10          8           7
Memo Items in million $US (from UDAPE)
Gross Domestic Product (GDP)                                     7,953.0   8,558.0   9,233.0   9,930.0   10,573.0   11,612.0   12,308.7   13,047.2   13,830.1    14,659.9   15,539.5   16,471.8
Total Public Expenditures (TPE)                                  2,265.7   2,412.5   2,590.8   2,734.2    2,720.0    2,895.0    3,096.3    3,311.7    3,542.0    3,788.4    4,051.9    4,333.7
Without Project
A+B / GDP                                                          0.83%     0.77%     0.88%     0.86%      0.80%       0.78%      0.79%      0.79%       0.80%      0.81%       0.81%      0.82%
AtB I TPE                                                          2.90%     2.73%     3.13%     3.13%      3.13%       3.12%      3.12%      3.12%       3.12%      3.12%       3.12%      3.12%
D / GDP                                                            0.89%     0.84%     0.94%     0.93%      0.87%      0.85%       0.86%      0.87%       0.88%      0.89%       0.90%      0.91%
With Project
A+B / GDP                                                          0.83%     0.77%     1.06%     1.00%      0.92%       0.89%      0.90%      0.90%       0.90%      0.90%       0.90%      0.90%
A+B / TPE                                                          2.90%     2.73%     3.78%     3.63%      3.59%       3.56%      3.56%      3.53%       3.51%      3.48%       3.46%      3.43%
D/GDP                                                              0.83%     0.77%     1.16%     1.13%      1.06%       1.02%      1.04%      1.04%       1.05%      1.06%       1.07%      1.08%
Increased Central Government expenditure/TPE                                           0.18%     0.13%      0.24%       0.21%      018%       0.17%       0.16%      0.15%       0.14%      0.13%
lIncreased Public expenditure/GDP                               _________              0.17%     0.16%.    0.19%,    0.19%         0.18%.    0.18%.    0.17%          0.16%      0.14%1    0.12%
Sources: PCU based on UDAPE and MOF.
Notes: Central government expenditures exclude "pensiones vitalicias" and pensions. It is projected to grow at the same rate as total pubic expenditure.
"Without project" is a scenario where (i) the immunization program remains at a very low level; and (ii) the Seguro Basico is not established (and the Seguro materno y de la Ni0ea continues to operate). The "With project" scenario
includes those two policies, s, strengthens the quality ot mother-child services and provides sub-projects (These are assumed to add little to recurrent costs).



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                Page 34
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
2000         2001           2002          TOTAL
Project Cost
Investment cost        13,301.3     17,015.3        12,816.3       43,133.0
Recurrent cost           275.0         265.0          255.0          795.0
TOTAL COST             13,576.3     17,280.3        13,071.3       43,928.0
Financing Sources
IDA                    7,611.0      10,724.0         6,665.0       25,000.0
Other Donors            1,810.3      1,810.3         1,810.3        5,431.0
Government              4,155.0      4,746.0         4,596.0       13,497.0
TOTAL FINANCING        13,576.3     17,280.3        13,071.3       43,928.0



BolMa: Health Sector Reform Project                                              Page 35
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
Procurement
Works, goods and services as well as the contracting of consultants will be carried out in accordance
with IDA Guideline for Procurement (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999), the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A. The Ministry of Health through the PCU and the
Fondo de Inversi6n Social (FIS) will supervise all procurement action under the project, based on agreed
procurement procedures as defined in the Operations Manual. The Procurement Operations Manual will
include, in addition to the procurement procedures, the Standard Bidding Documents to be used in each
case, as well as contracts to be awarded on the basis of quotations. Where no relevant standard contract
exists, other standard forms acceptable to IDA shall be used.
Procurement of Civil Works
(a) National Competitive Bidding, NCB: will be used for all contracts, for the rehabilitation of
buildings, in an amount greater than US$50,000 equivalent. NCB procedure must not discriminate
against foreign bidders;
(b) Price comparison: at least three quotations will be used for contracts in an amount less than
U$50,000 equivalent.
Procurement of Goods
(a) International Competitive Bidding, ICB: contracts for security boxes, supplies for the cold chain
and women medical kits in an amount greater than US$180,000 equivalent will be awarded using ICB;
(b) Limited International Bidding, LIB: contracts for supplies for the cold chain in the amount greater
than US$150,000 equivalent will be conducted through LIB from suppliers offering technical and
maintenance services in Bolivia.
(c) UN Agencies (PAHO/WHO): procurement of contracts for vaccines and syringes in an amount
greater than US$200,000 equivalent will be conducted through PAHO/WHO. On the basis of packages
with a variety of vaccines estimated to cost less than US$1 million equivalent annually or such amount
otherwise agreed by IDA pursuant to a procurement plan. PAHO/WHO will acquire the vaccines in an
open unrestricted competitive way consistent with Bank procedures and will charge a fee to cover the
cost of the service. PAHO will submit market surveys to IDA on an annual basis;
(d) National Competitive Bidding, NCB: contracts for vehicles, computers, printers, software, office
furniture and equipment, educational materials, furniture, video-cameras, syringes, and miscellaneous in
an amount less than US$180,000 equivalent will be awarded using NCB.
(e) Price comparison (local and international shopping) LS, IS: contracts for vehicles, computers,
printers, software, office furniture and equipment, educational materials, furniture, video-cameras and
miscellaneous items in packages costing more than US$50,000 equivalent but less than US$180,000 will
be awarded using international price comparison, with quotations obtained from several suppliers, and
contracts less that US$50,000 equivalent will be awarded using local price comparison, with quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                 Page 36
Procurement of Technical Assistance
Consulting services and training will be procured following IDA's Guidelines and using standard
contracts, as follows: (i) Procurement for IEC (Publicity and preparation of education programs),
Information Systems, Design and Revision of Norms and Protocol will be done according to quality and
cost selection; (ii) feasibility studies, work supervision, financial and procurement audits, impacts and
training will be done according to quality and cost selection and/or least cost selection; (iii) consulting
services including long-term consultants in the PCUs, will be awarded to individuals on the basis of
consultants' qualifications as described in chapter V of the Guidelines, and contracts for other personal
services will be awarded on the basis of "Service Delivery Contractors".
Procurement of Health Subprojects
The project will finance subprojects to benefit communities, districts, and departments. Subprojects
consist of investments that combine inputs such as small civil works, purchases of medical supplies and
equipment, other equipment, social communications, and management strengthening. The communities
themselves would be responsible for procurement actions on these contracts using procedures,
specifications and contract packaging agreed with the Bank and specified in the Orientation Manual.
The subprojects would emphasize community participation in project execution and the use of
appropriate local technologies.
Subprojects will be procured as follows:
(a) Subprojects for works estimated to cost between US$250,000 and US$500,000 equivalent, will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
(b) Subprojects for works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent each, will be awarded on
the basis of mechanisms for community participation in procurement using three quotations.
(c) Goods for subprojects estimated to cost less than US$180,000 equivalent each, will be procured
through National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
(d) Goods for subprojects estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent would be awarded using
intemational price comparison (International Shopping), with quotations obtained from several suppliers,
and contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent will be awarded using local price comparison, with
quotations from at least three qualified Suppliers. Supply of goods consisting of construction materials
local government and other local organizations may be used.
(e) Community Subprojects consisting exclusively of technical assistance and/or training (capacity
building activities) will be procured using Selection-Based-on-Consultant Qualifications (SBCQ) for
firms; financial and technical audits will be procured using Selection-Based-on-Consultant Qualifications
(SBCQ) for individuals and Least-Cost Selection (LCS) for firms. Consulting services (i) for individuals
will be procured following IDA Guidelines and using standard contracts as described in chapter V of the
guidelines, and (ii) for other personal services will be awarded on the basis of 'Service Delivery
Contractors'.
(f) Operating costs include operation and maintenance of computing equipment, vehicles, office, cost
of supplies, materials, support services, communications and electricity for the PCUs, as well as travel
costs for supervision. An average of US$8,300 per month for the PCU in La Paz and US$2,150 for each
of the five Regional PCUs has been agreed.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                Page 37
Procurement Review
Prior review by IDA (Table B) will include: (i) all International Competitive Bidding; (ii) all Limited
International Bidding; (iii) the first two contracts in works and goods awarded on the basis of NCB by
the PCU and FIS every year; (iv) the first contract in works under Quotations procedure by PCU every
year and simplified prior review for the first two works contracts by FIS every year; (v) simplified prior
review for the first contract of goods using International Shopping (IS) (PCU-SIF), and the first two
contracts using NCB procedure (PCU, FIS) every year; (vi) procurement arrangements in accordance
with Appendix 2 of the IDA Guidelines.
The rest of the procurement of works and goods will be subject to ex-post review by IDA. Regarding
review of consultant services: (i) all Terms of Reference and contracts greater than US$80,000
equivalent for consultant services provided by firms and financial and procurement audits, and (ii) for
individual consultants less than US$50,000 equivalent twice yearly program and based on the program
selection of TORs to be reviewed, (iii) for individual consultants and personal services less than
US$7,000 equivalent twice yearly program.
To facilitate the process, the PCU/FIS will submit to IDA a plan for the contracting of consultants with
relevant TORs and cost estimates as part of the Operation Plan every six months. A procurement plan
for the first year of the project, indicating the needs, procurement methodology, time frames and other
relevant details will be presented during negotiations. Such a plan will be updated on an annual basis
"every January" during the entire life of the project, and whenever it is considered necessary by IDA.
Under these arrangements, the prior review of approximately 35% of the estimated value of project items
is expected. Although the expected level of prior review is be relatively low, this will be compensated
for in several ways: (i) as part of the annual ex-post review of subprojects, external procurement auditors,
contracted by the PCU and FIS under the credit, will conduct quarterly performance audits covering
technical, environmental, managerial and procurement aspects of a sample of sub-projects satisfactory to
IDA; (ii) the audit of procurement aspects will include both physical audits and the procurement
procedures used, so that IDA can judge whether procurement implementation is satisfactory; (iii) the
project information and monitoring system will be used to compare costs of similar sub-projects in order
to detect possible discrepancies which might indicate procurement problems and the need for further
analysis; accuracy of data in the project information system will also be checked through the audits; and
(iv) IDA supervision missions will conduct random reviews, including frequent field visits and review of
procurement documentation. Additionally, the systematic review of the first two contracts for NCB, and
the first contract for other methods, every year will help monitor quality and consistency in the
application of IDA Guidelines and procurement procedures agreed for the project. Efforts would be
made for a procurement specialist to be part of the supervision missions, which are expected to be a
minimum of three the first year.
Disbursement
Allocation of Credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over a period of about three years (plus six months to
disburse on outstanding commitments), to be completed by September 30, 2002. The project closing date
would be March 30, 2003 (six month after completion date).
Disbursements would be made against the following categories:
1. Civil Works - Expansion and rehabilitation of health services, micro drinking water systems, cold
store rooms for vaccines, solid and liquid waste disposal systems for health service centers and markets.
85%.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                             Page 38
Goods - Vehicles, computers, medical instruments and equipment, general furniture, administrative and
educational equipment, furniture and vaccines. 100% foreign expenditures and 85% local expenditures.
2. Technical Assistance - Information, education and communication, general and specialized
consulting, evaluation and monitoring systems, studies and investigation, long-term consultants, and
Institutional and Communities training. 100%.
3. Health Subprojects Small investments consisting of any combination of goods, small works for
minor rehabilitation or expansion of health facilities, training and technical assistance. 100% foreign
expenditures and 85% local expenditures.
4. Operating Cost.
Retroactive Financing
The approximate amount to be financed retroactively is US$2.7 million (10 percent of the Credit
including the PPF)
Use of Withdrawal Applications (WAs)
Quarterly PMR-based disbursement procedures using the Special Account will be adopted for the
implementation of this project in accordance with procedures established in The Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) tmplementation Handbook of September 1998 and its later revisions.
Special Account
Two Special Accounts would be opened for this project, one to be used by the PCU, the other by FIS,
and both in accordance and compliance with IDA and LACI requirements. All project disbursements
would be paid from these Special Accounts. The Special Accounts would be replenished quarterly at the
Borrower's request and using Withdrawal Applications (WAs). The PCU and FIS would be responsible
for preparing WAs, and in charge of the Special Accounts. Disbursements would be based on Project
Management Reports countersigned by the Task Manager and IDA's Financial Officer. Documentation
supporting WAs would be retained by the PCU and FIS at their headquarters in La Paz and made
available for examination by IDA staff during project supervision missions.
Local Currency Account
In addition to the Special Accounts in US dollars, both the PCU and FIS would create and maintain in
their accounting system a separate account for the counterpart funds needed for all payments anticipated
for each year of the implementation of the project. All project accounts would continue to be managed
in accordance with generally accepted international accounting standards, as confirmed by the annual
financial-management audits for the project during implementation.
Audits
The government would contract independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, to audit Project Expenditures,
the Special Account(s), the project accounts, and the WAs, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to IDA within four months
after the close of the Borrower's fiscal year. The audit reports would include a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursements against certified WAs. Auditors would review individual contracts, ascertain
compliance with the terms of the contracts, inspect progress of works and reconcile the physical progress
with financial expenses incurred, and verify that procurement guidelines are being respected.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                       Page 39
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for Bank-Financed Purchases'
(in US$million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category               Procurement Method                  (confingencies
including)
ICB     LIs     NC8       Other   N. _.F
1. Civil Works                               441.4       50.0                 491.4
2. Goods                    154.4   500    1,000.0    3,400.0               5,054.4
3. Consultant's Services                              4,492.8               4,492.8
4. Health Subprojects                                10,108.8              10,108.8
5. Incremental                                         982.8                  982.8
Administrative Costs                                               I
6. Refunding of cost-                                 1,404.0                1,404.0
preparation advance
7. Unallocated                                        2,465.8               2,465.8
Total             154.4   500   1,441.4   22,904.2                25,000.0
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as
"N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
l For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                                        Page 40
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviewv
1. Civil Works
>US$50,000                     NCB                  Prior-review of first two contracts every
year
sUS$50,000      Three Quotations from Qualified     Prior-review of first contract
Contractors
2. Goods
2.1 General          2 US$180,000                    ICB                  Prior-review of all contracts
<US$180,000                    NCB                  Prior review of first two contracts every
year
>US$50,000             Shopping (International)     Simplified prior-review of first contract
every year
sUS$50,000                Shopping (Local)          Simplified post-review: random sample
of contracting documents
2.2 Cold chain        US$ 150,000                   LIB                  Prior-review of all contracts
2.3 Vaccines and     >US$ 200,000         UN Agencies (PAHO/WHO)          PAHO to submit to the Association
syringes                                                                  market surveys annually
3. Consultant's
Services
3.1 Firms            2 US$80,000                    QCBS                  Prior-review: all TORs, short lists
(including full review of technical and
combined evaluations)
<US$80,000              Least Cost Selection        Prior-review: annual program and
TORs for financial and procurement
audits
3.2 Individual       s US$50,000                  Individuals             Prior-review: twice yearly review  of
Consultant's                and                                           program of contracting.  Program to
> US$7,000                                          specify which TORs will be reviewed.
Post-review:  random   sample  of
contracting documents.
Prior-review: Twice yearly review of
s US$7,000                                          program of contracting. Post-review:
random sample of contracting
documents
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the
Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                                        Page 41
P'rocuNoiodt Rtem as    ntotVi0PQUelOIVOhd                                              Review
poer the Procurenient   (hesho.   .
Plan                LI$$
4. Health Subprojects
4.1 Civil works      US$500,000                    NCB                   Prior Review of first two contracts
every year
<US$250,000        Three Quotations from Qualified  Simplified Prior Review of first two
Contractors             contracts every year
4.2 Goods            2US$180,000                     ICB                  Prior Review of all contracts
sUS$180,000                    NCB                  Prior review of first two contracts every
year
sUS$1 00,000           Shopping (International)     Simplified Prior Review of first two
contracts every year
<US$50,000              Shopping (National)         Simplified Post Review of a random
sample of contracting documents
4.3 Consultant's
Services and training
4.3.1 Firms        2 US$80,000                    QCBS                  Prior Review: all TORs, short lists
(including full review of technical and
combined evaluations)
<US$80,000              Least Cost Selection        Prior Review: annual program and
TORs for financial and procurement
audits
4.3.2. Individual
Consultants        sUS$50,000                   individuals             Prior Review: twice yearly review of
and                                          program of contracting.  Program to
<US$15,000                                          specify which TORs will be reviewed.
Post-Review:  random   sample  of
contracting documents.
Prior-Review:  annual  program   of
sUS$15,000                                          contracting  under agreed  standard
TORs. Post-Review: random sample
of contracting documents.
Total Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review = 35%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audit



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                                 Page 42
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Rpn.o                                       tM Ira WSMIRM F             i  Pen7entag.
1. Civil Works
Expansion and rehabilitation of health        491.4                      85%
services, micro drinking water system,
cold store rooms for vaccines, solid and
liquid waste disposal systems for health
service centers and markets
2. Goods
Vehicles, computers, medical                 5,054.4           100% of foreign expenditures
instruments and equipment, general                               85% of local expenditures
furniture, administrative and educational
equipment and fumiture and vaccines
3. Consulting Services Information,
education and communication                  4,492.8                     100%
General and specialized consulting,
Evaluation and monitoring systems
Studies and investigation and long term
consultants.
Institutional and communities.
4. Health Subprojects                       10,108.8              85% goods and works,
l___________________________________                             100% consultants' services
5. Incremental Administrative Costs           982.8                       85%
Total Project Costs                         21,130.2
Refunding of Project Preparation        1,404.0
Advance  _
Unallocated          2,465.8
Total                                       25,000.0



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                         Page 43
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
-P                                                                      ActSciaoPlne  tual
(At f-na  POD st e)  _ ____ ___e
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                            10 months
First Bank mission (identification)              02/1997              02/24/1997
Negotiations                                     03/1999               01/25/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/1999               07/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance: PPF Q094-0-BO/Japanese Grant 25268
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Daniel Cotlear                                    Sr. Health Economist, LCHSD
Evangeline Javier                                 Sector Leader LCSHD
Rafael Flores                                     Investments System Specialist, LCSHD
Helen Saxenian                                    Health Financing, HDD (PeerReviewer)
Anne Tinker                                       Safe Motherhood, HDD (Peer Reviewer)
Mariam Claesom                                    Integrated Management of Childhood Illness, HDD
(Peer Reviewer)
Rudolf Van Puymbroeck                             Chief Counsel, LEGLA
Genaro Alarcon-Benito                             Lawyer, LEGLA
David Varela                                      Lawyer, LEGLA
Estanislao Gacitua                                Social Participation Specialist, ESSD
Maria Lucy Giraldo                                Procurement Specialist, LCSHD
Patricia Bernedo                                  Project Assistant, LCSHD



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                      Page 44
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project
Area Financiera - Administrativa
FIN-01 Compromisos de Gestion           Lic. Francisco Ardaya B.   Sep-98           BI
(Documento Te6rico)
FIN-02 Compromisos de Gestion suscrito   Lic. Francisco Ardaya B.   Oct-98  B_
FIN-03 con Chuquisaca y en negociaci6n
con Cochabamba
FIN-04 Presupuesto por Componentes del  Lic. Francisco Ardaya B.   Nov-98            BI
Proyecto
FIN-05 Convenio Tipo para firma de      Lic. Francisco Ardaya B.    Nov-98           BI
Compromisos de Gesti6n
FIN-06 Compromisos de Gesti6n -         Lic. Francisco Ardaya B.   Nov-98            Bl
Documento de Difusi6n
FIN-07 Organizaci6n Estructural y Procesos URS e Ing. Jorge Cavero  Nov-98          B8
FIN 08 Tecnicos del Proyecto
FIN-09 Estructura Financiera y Organizaci6n URS y Lic. Wilford Pacheco   Nov-98      BI
FIN-10 Tecnica del Proyecto
FIN-1 I Procesos Generales, Procesos de   URS y Lic. Vvilford Pacheco   Nov-98      81
FIN-12 Compromisos de Gesti6n y Procesos
Administrativos del Proyecto
Area lngenieria y Proyectos
INF-01 Documento Ejecutivo sobre        Susy Bazan, Ximena          Dic-97          ES
lnfraestructura ffsica, equipamiento y Mendoza, David Mendoza,
Recursos Humanos de Unidades de  Malena Pino, Lourdes
Salud.                           Moncada y M6nica Saravia
INF-02 Criterios de asignacion de recursos  Ing. Cristian Pereira S. FIS    Ene-98  B8
de FOCIS
INF-03 Analisis de la poblaci6n Boliviana por Ing. Cristian Pereira S.  Mar-98      81
municipios
INF-04 Proyecto de Fortalecimiento de   Ing. Cristian Pereira S.    Mar-98          81
infraestructura y equipamiento de los
servicios de primer nivel y hospitales
de distrito (Presentado a la Uni6n
Europea)
INF-05 Documento del Fondo Concursable  Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS    Jun-98       B8
de Inversi6n en Salud (FOCIS)
INF-06 Modificaci6n del documento del   Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS  Oct-98          Bl
FOCIS a la propuesta de
Mecanismos de Asignacion de
Recursos MAR
INF-07 Guia de Formulaci6n de Proyectos  Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS    Jun-98       B1
del FOCIS



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                      Page 45
Codigo      Nombre de[ Documento                  Autor              Aiio    Tipo Dobumento
Etaborac.
INF-08 Adecuaci6n de la Guia de         Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS  Oct-98         Bi
Formulaci6n de Proyectos del FOCIS
al MAR
INF-09 Criterios de elegibilidad para el  Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS    Jun-98     BI
FOCIS
INF-10 Propuesta Preliminar FOCC        Dr. Fernando Cisneros y     Jun-98          ES
FIS
INF-1 I Analisis de criterio de elegibilidad    Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS    Jun-98  BI
INF-12 Detalle del ciclo de proyectos del    Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS  Sep-98     Bi
MAR
INF-13 Resumen de Proyecto Piloto en hojas Ing. Cristian Pereira S.  Sep-98          Bl
ejecutivas
INF-14 Documento de Difusi6n y          Ing. Cristian Pereira S.    Oct-98          B!
INF-15 Presentaci6n del MAR Mecanismos
de Asignacion de Recursos
INF-16 Propuesta de Pilotaje            Ing. Cristian Pereira S.   Nov-98            BI
INF-17 Gufa de Presentaci6n de Proyectos  Ing. Cristian Pereira y FIS  Nov-98       81
Area Epidomiologia
PAI-01 Proyecto de apoyo a la Reforma de  Tercera Misi6n del Banco  Sep-98           BI
Salud - Sub componente Programa   Mundial
Ampliado de Inmunizaciones
PAI-02 Informe Evaluaci6n de Programas   Ministerio de Salud de     Oct-98          ES
Ampliado de Inmunizaci6n         Bolivia y Organizaci6n
Panamericana de la Salud
PAI-03 Informe de Asesoria Tecnica en el  Ing. Victor G6mez -       Nov-98          ES
Area de Cadena de Frio           Organizaci6n
Panamericana de la Salud
PAI-04 Plan Quinquenal del Programa     Ministerio de Salud de      Nov-98          ES
Ampliado de Inmunizaci6n 1999 -    Bolivia y Organizaci6n
2003                             Panamericana de la Salud
PAI-05 Evaluaci6n Programa Ampliado de   Roberto Borht, Juan        Nov-98          ES
Inmunizaciones                   Carlos Mallo y Virgilio
Prieto
Area Salud
SAL-01 Base de datos y Analisis de       Carlos Juanes, Fernando    Nov-97           ES
estructura de costos en el area  Rivero, Javier Linares,
Materno Infantil                 Sandra Mercado y Ramiro
La Fuente
SAL-02 Calidad de la atenci6n del parto en   Miguel Angel Fernandez  Jul-98          ES
los distintos niveles de resoluci6n en
_ Bolivia
SAL-03 Propuesta de aspectos operativos   Guido Monasterios         Jul-98           ES
esenciales para implementar un
Fondo Concursable en el marco del
Proyecto del Ministerio con el Banco .



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                      Page 46
Ninibre   I Dotiie                                                   Wo!iv^ t bcuinwh
SAL-04 Tendencias y conductas en la      Ramiro Mamani, Esther      Jul-98          ES
utilizaci6n de servicios de Salud  Moldes y Fanny Cornejo
SAL-05 Tendencias y conductas en la      Ramiro Mamani, Esther      Sep-98          ES
utilizaci6n de servicios de Salud -    Moldes y Fanny Cornejo
Trabajo de complementacion -
Satisfacci6n del usuario
SAL-06 Evaluaci6n del Sistema Nacional de  Charles Pedregal, Milenka    Nov-97      ES
Salud - Nuevo Modelo Sanitario   Rossel, Olga Soliz, Mery
Boliviano                        Loredo, Henry Zabaleta y
Victor Zapata
Area Economia de la Salid
SBS-01 Coberturas del Seguro Basico de    Lic. Marina Cardenas R.   May-98           Bl
Salud
SBS-02 Proyecto de Decreto Supremo       Lic. Marina Cardenas R.    May-98           BI
Seguro Basico de Salud
SBS-03 Analisis Tecnico-Financiero del PAI  Lic. Marina Cardenas R.  May-98          BI
SBS-04 Estimaci6n de Costos de las       Lic. Marina Cardenas R.    Ago-98           Bi
prestaciones del Seguro Basico de
Salud
SBS-05 Seguro Basico de Salud -          Lic. Marina Cardenas R.    Oct-98           Bl
SBS-06 Documento de Difusi6n y Documento
de Discusi6n
SBS-07 Municipios                        Lic. Marina Cardenas R.    Oct-98           BI
SBS-08 Convenio Tipo para Prefecturas y    Lic. Marina Cardenas R.  Oct-98           BI
SBS-09 Gobiernos Municipales con SBS
SBS-10 Convenio tipo para autonomizaci6n   Lic. Marina Cardenas R.  Oct-98           Bi
de hospitales con SBS y RS
SBS-11 Calculo Financiero del Impacto del   Lic. Marina Cardenas R.  Nov-98          81
Seguro Basico de Salud
SBS-12 Estudio Cuentas Nacionales de     Equipo HARVARD             Jun-98           ES
Gasto en Salud en Bolivia - Proyecto
Harvard
SBS-13 Mejoramiento de la Calidad de     Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           B1
Atenci6n: Estandares e Indicadores -
SBS
SBS-14 Programa de Comunicaci6n          Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           81
Educativa - SBS
SBS-15 Diez primeras causas de notificaci6n Equipo UNICEF y MSPS    May-98           Bl
Enfermedades transmisibles y dahos
de salud - SBS
SBS-16 Manual de normas Tecnicas de      Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98
atenci6n a la ninez -SBS
SBS-17 Instrumental y equipo de laboratorio  Equipo UNICEF y MSPS   May-98           81
necesario por nivel de atencion - SBS



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                      Page 47
Codigo      Nounbre dd tfiihiento                                    Ahto Trpo Oceumento
-___-___-___-___._       Elaborac.
SBS-18 Estimaci6ndelcostodelinstrumental Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98          B8
y equipo medico - SBS
SBS-19 Manual de normas Tecnicas de      Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           BI
atenci6n a la poblaci6n en general -
SBS
SBS-20 Manual de normas tecnicas de      Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           BI
promoci6n y rehabilitacion nutricional
- SBS
SBS-21 Paquete de medicamentos e insumos Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           81
-SBS
SBS-22 Manual de Normas Tecnicas de      Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           B1
laboratorio, Manual de
procedimientos Administrativos -y
Manual del Comite Nal. De
Coordinaci6n SBS
SBS-23 Manual de normas tecnicas de      Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           BI
atenci6n a la mujer - SBS
SBS-24 Determinaci6n de costos de        Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           B1
medicamentos e insumos del Seguro
Basico de Salud
SBS-25 Guia para los Usuarios - Seguro   Equipo UNICEF y MSPS       May-98           81
Basico de Salud
Area Salud Publica
SP-01  Informe sobre Constituci6n de Redes Victor Zapata, Olga soliz,  Nov-97       ES
de Servicios y coberturas alcanzadas Lisbeth Rossel y Mery
en los programas priorizados del    Loredo
Modelo de Atenci6n
SP-02  Guia de implementaci6n perfil de    Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas  Mar-98    -    B
proyecto
SP-03  Esquema de implementaci6n de     Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas   Abr-98           B1
distritos modelos
SP-03  Perfiles de proyectos Chagas,    Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas   May-98           Bl
SP-04  Malaria y TB
SP-05
SP-06  Plan Estrategico de Salud Warnes,  Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas  May-98          B1
SP-07  Santa Cruz Plan Estrategico de Salud
SP-08  Colcapirhua Cochabamba y Plan
Estrategico de Salud El Alto La Paz
SP-9  Plan Nacional IMCI                Equipo Tecnico IMCI        Jun-98           81
Nacional
SP-10  Plan Regional IMCI, La Paz,      Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas    Jul-98          BI
SP-1 1 Cochabamba y Santa Cruz
SP-12
SP-1 3 Apertura Programatica Paquete    Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas    Jul-98          B1
materno Neonatal
SP-14  Plan Nacional Paquete Materno    Equipo Tecnico Nacional    Sep-98           B1
Neonatal (MBP) 1999 - 2001       Mujer - Niho
SP-1 5  Plan Departamental Paquete Materno Equipo Departamental    Sep-98           BI
SP-16  Neonatal La Paz, Cochabamba y    Mujer - Nino
SP-17  Santa Cruz (MBP) 1999 - 2001



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                        Page 48
SP-18  Plan Nacional Atenci6n Integral de   Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas H.   Sep-98      Bl
Enfermedades Prevalente de la
_ Infancia (IMCI) 1999 - 2001
SP-19  Plan Departamental La Paz,        Lic. Maria Luisa Salinas H.    Oct-98        Bl
SP-20  Cochabamba y Santa Cruz Atenci6n
SP-22  Integral de Enfermedades Prevalente
de la Infancia (IMCI) 1999 - 2001
SP-23  Informe Preliminar "Estudio Red   Equipo Consultores          Nov-98           BI
SP-24  Obstetrica y Neonatal La Paz,
SP-25  Cochabamba y Santa Cruz"
Otras ireas
OTR-01 Marco Institucional                Lic. Marcelo Barr6n R.      Oct-98           B1
OTR-02 Proyecto del Decreto Supremo       Lic. Marcelo Barr6n R.      Oct-98           Bl
SEDES 25060
OTR-01 Plan de Comunicaci6n Social        Lic. Franco Clavijo C.      Oct-98           ES
Menu de abreviaturas
BI - Borrador Instrumento
ES - Estudio
FIN - Area Financiera Administrativa
INF - Area Ingenieria y Proyectos
OTR - Fortalecimiento Institucional y otros
PAI - Area Epidemiologia
SAL - Area Salud
SBS - Area Economia de la Salud
SP - Area Salud Puiblica



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                                                                                      Page 49
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bolivia
Operations Portfolio
As of 11-Jan-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions             and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year           Borrower              Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed     Orig  Frm Rev'd
umber of Closed Projects: 55
ctive Projects
O-PE-57030   1999   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA          REG REFORM ADJ CREDI                 0.00     41.78       0.00            20.51     -22.30      0.00
O-PE-40085   1998   REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA          PARTICIP RURAL INV.                  0.00     62.80       0.00           65.32       0.00       0.00
O-PE-40110   1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE (MOF)  FIN DECEN & ACCT                        0.00     15.00       0.00            12.64       -.45      0.00
O-PE-55974   1998  GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA         BO EL NINO EMERGENCY                 0.00     25.00       0.00            18.81      2.43       0.00
O-PE-57396   1998  REPUBIC OF BOLIVIA            REG REFORM TAC                       0.00     20.00       0.00            20.93      0.00       0.00
O-PE-6204    1998   GOV OF BOLIVIA               EDUCATION QUALITY                    0.00     75.00       0.00           77.25       9.92       0.00
O-PE-6186    1996   REPUB. OF BOLIVIA            ENV.IND.& MINING                     0.00     11.00       0.00             9.41      3.05       0.00
O-PE-6191    1996  GOVERNMENT                    POWER SCTR REFTA&                    0.00      5.10       0.00             1.89      2.13       0.00
O-PE-6202    1996  GOVERNMENT OF BOLIVIA         RURAL COMMUNITIES DE                 0.00     15.00       0.00             1.66      1.96       0.00
O-PE-6206    1996  GOVT OF BOLIVIA               RURAL WTR & SANIT                    0.00     20.00       0.00            11.42     10.22       0.00
O-PE-6181    1995  GOV OF BOLIVIA                EDUCATION REFORM                     0.00     40.00       0.00           20.87       6.71       0.00
O-PE-6197    1995  GOV OF BOLIVIA                LAND ADMINISTRATION                  0.00     20.40       0.00             8.85       -.51      0.00
O-PE-6205    1995  GOVT. OF BOLIVIA              JUDICIAL REFORM                      0.00     11.00       0.00             5.08      3.50       0.00
O-PE-6190    1994  GOVMT OF BOLIVIA              MUNICIPAL DEV                        0.00     42.00       0.00            15.23     13.54       0.00
O-PE-6196    1993  GOV OF BOLIVIA                INTEGRATED CHILD DEV                 0.00     50.70       0.00           39.40      28.34       0.00
D-PE-6180    1992  GOVT OF BOLIVIA  A            RD MAINT                             0.00     80.00       0.00           24.84      21.83       4.77
3tal                                                                                  0.00    534.78       0.00          354.11      80.37       4.77
Active Projects    Closed Projects       Total
ttaM Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):           188.21          1,152.50          1,340.71
of which has been repaid:                0.00            291.24            291.24
)tal now held by IBRD and IDA:           534.78            844.71          1,379.49
mount sold        :                        0.00              .05               .05
Of which repaid   :                        0.00              .05               .05
2taM Undisbursed    :                    354.11              8.93           363.04
Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
ote:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Dec-98.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                                                                                 Page 50
Bolivia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Nov-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval               Company            Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
0                       Minera                      0.00     3.40     0.00     0.00     0.00      3.40    0.00     0.00
1976/88/90/91/95/98      BISA                       12.00     4.70     0.00      0.00    12.00     3.16    0.00      0.00
1989/92/94/96            COMSUR                     12.32     0.00     2.14      3.00    12.32     0.00    2.14      3.00
1991                     Bermejo                     0.00     5.90     0.00      0.00     0.00     5.00    0.00      0.00
1991                     Central Aguirre              .75      .35     0.00      0.00      .75      .35    0.00      0.00
1992                     Inti Raymi                 10.00     0.00     5.00      0.00    10.00     0.00    5.00      0.00
1993                     GENEX                        .95     0.00      1.13     0.00      .51     0.00      .84     0.00
1996                     Mercantil-BOL              10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    10.00     0.00    0.00      0.00
1996                     Telecel Bolivia            10.00     0.00      5.00    20.00     6.67     0.00    5.00    13.33
Total Portfolio:                        56.02    14.35    13.27    23.00    52.25    11.91   12.98    16.33
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equit    Quasi   Partic
1999                     LOS ANDES                   2.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                2.00     0.00     0.00      0.00



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                                                        Page 51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-          _  _      _     _      _      _
Bolivia   & Carib.  Income       Developmentcdiamond-
1997
Population, mid-ear (mt/ons)                            7.8        494     2,285                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      950      3,880      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        7.4      1,917     2,818                        T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                           2.4       1.7        1.2     GNP                               Grs
Labor force (%)                                          2.6       2.3        1.3     per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaliable, 1991-97)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% o popuiation below national poverty line)     67
Urban population.(% of total population)                 59         74        42
Lfe expectancy at birth (years)                          61         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 67         32        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                9          ..        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                   60         73        84
Illiteracy (% of population.age 15+)                     17         13        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of siaool-age population)    91        t'11      111         -Bolivia
Male                                                   95          ..      116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 87          ..      113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic ratlos*
GDP (US$ billions)                             2.2      4.0        7.2        7.8
Gross domestic investrnentGDP                    .      1 13.6    16.6       19.8
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                ..    21.3       22.9      21.0                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..       ..      11.2       12.3
Gross national savings/GDP                       ..       ..      16.6       15.0
Current account balance/G DP                  -2,6      -8.1      -5.3       -8.3     Domestic                     I t
Interest paymentsJGDP                          1.8       2.5       2.3        2.2     D        5   t               Investment
Total debt/GOP                                58.6    140.8       72.1       67.6     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    21.5      35.0      29.8       30,5
Present value of debUGDP                         ..       ..      46.4
Present value of debVexports                    ..        ..    241.4
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -2.7      4.1      4.1        4.2        5.3         -Bolivia
GNP per capita                         .       1.9       2.6       1.4        2.8         --Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        -5.0      8.6       6.7      -0.5        8.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                   1976      1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                     ..    28.5        14.1       14.1     45
Industry                                        ..    51.9        29.2      27.9      30
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..       17.0      15.7      1 jN,,
Services                                         ..    19.8       56.7       58.0     0o
Private consumption                              .     81.4       75.6       74.0             92   93   "'   95   96   97
General government consumption                  ..       9.4      13.1       13.7               -GD1    -           DP
Imports of goods and services                    .     25.7       28.3       28.5                     G
(average annual growth)                    1976-86  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     ..       3.3       3.6        4.9    20 -
Industry                                                 4.5       3.4        3.5    is                  _
Manufacturing                                  ..      4.3        3.9       4.2    1' 
Services                                         ..      3.9       4.4        4.5
Private consumption                           -0.5       3.0       2.4        3.9     0                        _
General government consumption                 -4.4      2.9       1.0        3.8            92                95   96   97
Gross domestic investment                     -4.1       7.8      20.9       23.8    .5                                         .
Imports of goods and services                  1.6       6.0       9.7       10.3             -Exports          6  Imports
Gross national product                          ..       4.4       5.1        3.8
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Proiect                                                                                      Page 52
Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976      1986       1996      1997      Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                             20
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..        7.9       6.7    15
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..   211.4        8.9       7.9    10
Government finance                                                                     s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    n
Current revenue                                  ..    18.7        26.3      24.1              92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                            ..     1.4        6.3       3.0                 -GDP deflator  -S -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -3.3        -2.0       -3.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976      1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      588      1,132     1,167      2.000
Tin                                             ..     104         86        81
Fuel                                            ..     334        153       200      1,500-
Manufactures                                    ..       ..       144       183
Total imports (cif)                              ..      674      1,568     1,810      1.000
Food                                            .        ..       148       188           '_               _
Fuel and energy                                ..        ..        86       349
Capital goods                                   ..       ..       586       734         o;       9    93   96
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      156        104       106            91   92   93  94   95  96   97
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..      50        109       110                *Exports      a*Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      310         95        96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                               1976      1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  623       704      1,318     1,362         t
Imports of goods and services                  658       816      1,779     2,050           B
Resource balance                                -35     -112       -461      -688      -2
Net income                                      -36     -309       -168      -212      -4
Net current transfers                            14   99   245   252                            " I             'll
Current account balance                         -57     -321       -384      -648       6
Financing items (net)                           113      432        726       751      -8
Changes in net reserves                         -56     -110       -342      -103      lo -1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..      505      1,125     1,192
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USO)            3.OOE-5      1.9        5.1        5.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          1,290    5,575      5,200     5,284
IBRD                                          31       235         61        37
IDA                                           53        97        843       930                           3    i:930
Total debt service                              137      251        413       453            F: 504
IBRD                                           4        38         32        24
IDA                                             1        2          8        10C:4
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                11      147        394
Official creditors                           104       229        196       220         E: 1,421
Private creditors                            143        -4         44       -29
Foreign direct investment                      -8       10        426       591
Portfolio equitY                                0        0          0         0                                 D. 1,71B
World Bank program
Commitments                                   68        72         59        15     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  16        7        100       136     B -IDA     D-Other multilateral   F- Private
Principal repayments                            2       19         28        23     C - IMF                        G - Short-term
N et flows                                    14       -12         72       113
Interest payments                               2       20         12        11
Net transfers                                  12      -32         59       102
Development Economics                                                                                                     10/1/98



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                               Page 53
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy
from the Government of Bolivia
La Paz, Bolivia, April 1, 1999
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
F 1227
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
I am very pleased to present you with this health sector policy letter, containing the primary strategies that
our country seeks to implement through the first phase of the Health Reform Project, currently being
negotiated with the World Bank.
The central tenets of the health reform program are framed by the Bolivian Government's anti-poverty
plan (1997-2000), particularly the "equity pillar" of that plan. The objective of this pillar is to improve
the living conditions of the population, particularly those living in poverty. This improvement will be
pursued through the generation of opportunities for all, with emphasis on generating access to
opportunities for those with limited prospects.
Our relationship with the Bank is a close one, particularly as a result of the joint effort to produce the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Government's development strategy will be focused on
evaluating the results of integrated efforts made by the country, as measured by five strategic variables
that affect poverty. Interventions will be made in education, rural productivity, water, sanitation, and
health. Among CAS variables is the accelerated reduction of infant mortality. The improvement in this
indicator constitutes a priority task of the health sector over the next few years. The targets expressed in
the Government's Strategic Health Plan are the following: infant mortality should fall from 67 deaths per
1,000 live births in 1997, to 48 per 1,000 live births in 2008. Correspondingly, maternal mortality should
be reduced from 390 deaths per 100,000 live births in 1997, to 320 per 100,000 in 2008.
With regard to these indicators, the current situation is critical. The reduction of infant mortality requires
a multisectoral approach, with emphasis on: (i) water and environmental sanitation; (ii) education,
particularly for girls; and (iii) health attention. The Government, through the corresponding ministries, is
developing actions along the first two lines. Regarding the third, the Ministry of Health and Social
Security has been charged with developing two large programs. The first is a program to control endemic
diseases (epidemiological protection), which will be financed with the assistance of other member of the
international community. The second is a program to strengthen primary health care, both preventive and
promotional, which will be financed with the support of the World Bank and other development partners.
This letter details the strategies for reforming the health sector, with the aim of strengthening primary
preventative and promotional health care.
In order to reach the objectives set forth, as well as to measure both effort and impact, Bolivia has and
will continue to place great emphasis on systematically monitoring results; the lessons learned will allow
the modification of interventions for the following phase. The priority areas to be implemented include:



Bolivia: Health Sector Reforrn Project                                       Page 54
(i)    Development of an integrated model of attention based on:
(a)  integrated care for children;
(b)   a package of services for women and newborns; and
(c)  the establishment of a new, broader, and sustainable program of immunizations that
include new vaccines with greater impact.
(ii)   Establishment of Basic Health Insurance, as a solid national system, financed by public resources
from municipal governments. Through a group of essential services offered by multiple
providers, existing barriers to health service access will be overcome.
(iii)   Creation of Performance Agreements to guarantee the progressive and systematic development of
efficient instruments for supervision and accountability. These agreements should create an
institutional culture and commitment to health.
(iv)   Development of new mechanisms for resource allocation, with a demand-based approach,
prioritizing projects that will increase both low coverage and user satisfaction, and which will
promote greater community participation and empowerment vis-a-vis sanitary policy.
(v)    Deepening of decentralization through the establishment of service networks within Health
Districts and related to municipal governments. These networks will allow the Bolivian health
system to function with clear definitions of the scope of operations and greater local capacity.
The areas of intervention proposed by the Health Reform Program are aligned with Government-defined
policies, as set forth in Supreme Decree 25233 (the Health Services Department regulations) dated
November 27, 1998, and Supreme Decree 25265 (creation of the Basic Health Insurance) dated January
25, 1999. The Reform Program is also included in the Protected Social Programs, defined by the Vice-
Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing of the Ministry of Finance, which will assure local
counterpart funds for the implementation of the proposed project.
In order to facilitate a higher level of compliance with the Reform Program, the Government is committed
to substantially increase its financing for vaccinations, steadily increasing its contribution until the
recurrent costs of vaccinations are completely covered (by 2002). Over the next three years, the
Government will finance, through its own resources, US$2.5 million in 1999, US$3.0 million in 2000,
and US$3.5 million in 2001. With regard to the Performance Agreements and decentralization, Bolivia
will assume, with great political commitment, the application of agreements and management contracts,
reinforcing the effective supervision of compliance with these agreements. Likewise, the Government
will also support and deepen the process of decentralization, moving the system and its management
closer to local levels and to the user.
The Bolivian Government has prioritized health as a core part of the work to be carried out under the
"equity pillar". Our vision is of inter-sectoral action, seeking strategic alliances that allow goals and
objectives to be met, which in turn reduce the rates of infant, child and maternal mortality.
Within this framework, we ratify our regard for the World Bank, and our commitment to assume the
proposals and obligations presented above. We thank you for your consideration of the foregoing.
Respectfully yours,
Herbert Muller
Minister of Finance
Republic of Bolivia



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                   Page 55
Annex 12: Participation and Social Communication Strategies
During project preparation a study of behaviors and tendencies in the utilization of health services, and
interaction with providers, was conducted among Aymara and Quechua Populations. The study combined
quantitative and qualitative approaches focusing on three areas: (i) A review and analysis of existing studies
and publications about the problems of clients, use of services, and the interaction between the service
provider and Quechua and Aymard populations; (ii) a survey of attitudes and behaviors of the Quechua and
Aymara populations with reference to their utilization of health services and their interaction with service
providers; (iii)Focus groups held among Aymara and Quechua populations to assess the use of health
services and the behavior of the residents towards solving their health problems.
Among the key issues blocking access by Aymara and Quechua populations to health services are the
following:
*    Medical barriers characterized by service providers' lack of knowledge about the problems of the
population that they attend, particularly those of women.
*    Mistreatment and discrimination, directed mainly against migrant populations.
*     Lack of awareness among the population in the area of preventive health.
*     Limited response capacity of the health services, which is also frequently inappropriate, insufficient,
and delayed.
*     Lack of economic resources among the migrant population.
*     The migrant population's distrust of formal medicine and their use of ethnic medicineand household
remedies.
*     The functional instability of health service providers, particularly in the public sector.
*     The lack of incentives and low pay for medical personnel.
*     The scarce or nonexistent administrative and management capacity to organize efficient health
services.
Main Conclusions:
-    Coverage cannot be increased without a corresponding increase in quality of service.
=     A clear under utilization of health services was noted, due to the lack of confidence in those services,
support and contributions to the user by health personnel and a lack of emergency service outside of
normal hours.
*     Habitual users of health services, when sick, continue to first seek family council. Others prefer to go
directly to the pharmacy and/or health center. As a result, many other variables should be taken into
account, such as healers, midwives, shaman, etc.
*    Existing confidence in health services by users is fundamentally due to the lack of any other
alternative.
*     Health service clients lack knowledge about their rights and obligations, which would allow: (i) their
informed and active participation; (ii) their integration in problem solving; and (iii) information on
health services maintenance and the surveillance of quality of attention.
*     It is perceived that health personnel do not always understand the urgent necessity of solving the
barrier to quality of attention produced by a lack of materials and supplies; it is for this motive that a
large part of health service clients decide not to return to health services.
*     One main problem in patient dissatisfaction is the delay in receiving attention, along with the short
duration of the consultation. Many patients were observed to wait up to 3 hours, only to receive a
very brief medical consultation. This combination, aggravated by cultural and linguistic barriers,
makes it impossible to address all of the patient's worries.
*     The lack of capacity and goodwill among health service personnel leads to the perception among
service users that health personnel frequently do not help patients.



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                 Page 56
*    The high percentage of patient complaints about the attention received demonstrates that patient
dissatisfaction is very high. Among the most frequent complaints is the lack of medical attention due
to poor organization.
Additionally, consultations with potential beneficiaries in the departments of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa
Cruz were carried out during project preparation. The main purpose of the activities was to explain project
objectives and components and to exchange ideas about the design of procedures for the identification,
evaluation, selection and execution of health subprojects to be financed under the project. Participants in the
consultations included representatives from: public health providers from the departmental and district levels,
municipal governments, the Social Investment Fund, the Church, NGOs, Universities, UNICEF, PAHO,
GTZ, private providers, community groups and other local actors.
Participation and Social Communication Strategies for Key Project Activities/Components.
Pedagogical and informational materials (including videos and other audio-visual aids) produced as part of
the proposed social communications strategy when appropriate will be translated into indigenous languages,
including those used in the Eastern lowland regions (e.g., Guarani which is spoken in large parts of the
Department of Santa Cruz).
EPI: The EIP International Evaluation was carried out from October 19-30, 1998, using a survey applied to
148 potential users of vaccination services (mothers of children under 5 years of age that were found in or
just outside of the health establishment visited) in 21 districts of 4 departments selected for evaluation. The
survey found that the mothers interviewed perceived vaccines as a great health benefit, manifesting a high
degree of satisfaction when their children are vaccinated. However, when asked specifically about the
illnesses avoided by the vaccines, and how many doses are required for the child to be protected, their
knowledge was limited. This demonstrates that the media and messages of mass dissemination do not
always reach the groups at greatest risk. A recommendation of this evaluation is that the prestige of the
program be used to reach and provide incentives to the most marginal populations, with a focus on integrated
attention. It was also recommended that a permanent social communications system be established for
regular vaccinations, adapting messages and media to the type of user. With this objective in mind, focus
groups are planned for the beginning of the project, to apply the knowledge-aptitude-practice (KAP)
methodology in each of the three ecological settings (high plains, plains, and valleys). The goal is to better
identify the perceptions of indigenous populations and those populations without access to regular
vaccination services. Their perceptions will be sought on believes related to vaccines, as well as in-service
vaccination and its strategies (regular vaccines and vaccination campaigns). These study results will provide
the necessary inputs for designing an IEC strategy to better guide the work of health personnel located in
these populations, and should attain the participation of these communities in vaccination activities.
MBP: Based on the results of the diagnostic study, "Barriers and Facilitators in Attention to Obstetric and
Neonatal Complications," and the study of "Utilization Tendencies in Health Services" (Mothercare and the
Health Unit), the MBP will incorporate important practical elements of traditional health of the communities.
Additionally, through IEC, pregnant women, husbands, and the community at large will be counseled,
informed and educated on how to recognize signs of obstetric and neonatal complications, and how to
recognize the difference between a normal and a complicated birthing process. Simultaneously, service
providers will be sensitized on how to incorporate traditional medicine and knowledge of local customs and
traditions into health services.
IMCI: Studies promoted by BASICS are being carried out in the three ecological regions of the country,
oriented toward identifying knowledge, aptitudes, and practices of childcare providers, with regard to the
prevalent ailments within IMCI. These studies will serve as the basis to develop the community IMCI.
SBS: One of the conclusions evidenced by the evaluation of the SNMN, presented by Partnerships for
Health Reform in September 1998, was that urban residents have a greater and better understanding of access



Bolivia: Health Sector Reform Project                                                   Page 57
to the Maternal-Child Health Insurance Scheme than rural residents have. Additionally, many rural
inhabitants know little of modern medical attention, and therefore lack the information necessary to permit
their use of the insurance scheme. Infornation dissemination about the existence of the Maternal-Child
Health Insurance Scheme was not sufficiently intensive in rural areas. This experience points toward a more
integrated orientation in the dissemination of the Basic Health Insurance Scheme in these regions.
Furthermore, if mass media is not sufficient to improve popular access to the insurance scheme, then other
determining factors should be considered, including the implementation of strategies that incorporate quality
and cultural adjustments within proposals for community medical attention. These components will allow
for the creation of more equitable opportunities for access to health services. The Basic Health Insurance
Scheme seeks to incorporate these elements to guarantee greater access and satisfaction by the client
population. The permanent improvement of these services, both in terms of quality and accessibility, should
be realized with permanent participation and social control, channeled through grassroots organizations that
represent the community.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20516E
B R A Z I L                                                                               B O L I V I A
ROAMS
M.in
TnRio0r(oner                                                                                                                                S-e-odary
0  I    GanjerO Mister                                            ~~~~~~~~~~T-cks
.....-..   Ferry Lines
Natlon,1 Capital
Department lBundarles            12i
. .   /  -   -     Internati-aal Baundaries
9    5   100O   ISO   200   200
M   iotren                         oaO/
PARAGUAY
L.~     -       BRAZIL
lb Atnlfog.,I                      .-~UR
A ~      A    R      G     E     N    T     I   N      A                 ,an;o,cr
6      bBam,Ra. ro      Enbacaclste
JANUARY 1980



