Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7271-SK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Human Capital Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 1, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7271-SK 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 2005, between the SLOVAK REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE  the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
Page  4
-
2
-
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.”
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
(b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
(d) 
“Ministry of  Education” and “MOE” mean the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education which has been established and is functioning pursuant to the provisions of the 
Borrower’s Law No. 575/2001 dated December 12, 2001, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, or any successor thereto; 
 
(e) 
“Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family” and “MoLSAF” mean 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family which has been established 
and is functioning pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law No. 575/2001 dated 
December 12, 2001, as the same may be amended from time to time, or any successor 
thereto; 
(f) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
(g) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
November 25, 2004
.
,
covering the initial eighteen (18) month period of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
Page  5
-
3
-
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(h) 
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the Project Coordination 
Unit established within the MoLSAF under the Social Benefits Reform Administration 
Project (Loan Agreement No. 7098-SK), and referred to in paragraph 3, Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(i) 
“Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee to be established 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2, Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million Euro 
(EUR 5,000,000). 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate. 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
full on June 15, 2010. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE and MoLSAF with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services
 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
Page  7
-
5
-
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
Page  8
-
6
-
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
 (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 1 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such 
semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
Section 5.01. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  9
-
7
-
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.   The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
of
the Slovak Republic 
Ul. Stefanovicova 5 
81782 Bratislava 
P.O. Box 82 
Slovak Republic 
 
Telex 
  Facsimile: 
 
21868 
  (421-2) 
5249-8065 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bratislava, Slovak Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
 
By 
/s/  Rastislav Kacer 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Roger Grawe 
 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Euro
)
to be financed
(1)  
Goods 
250,000 
100% 
 
 
(2) Consultants' 
4,700,000 
100% 
 
services, training 
 
        
 and 
workshops 
 
(3)  
Operating 
Costs 
25,000 
100% 
 
(4)  
Front-end 
fee 
25,000
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 5,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “training and workshops” means expenditures incurred to 
finance the cost of: (i) the training, study tours, internships, scholarships, capacity 
building grants and research grants aimed at the development and strengthening of the 
skills and knowledge of civil servants at the MoLSAF and MOE and policy employees in 
other organizations involved in Project implementation, in accordance with the 
procedures and criteria set forth in the training manual acceptable to the Bank; and  
(ii) the organization of seminars, conferences and other events for the MoLSAF and 
MOE and other organizations involved in Project implementation; and 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred to finance the 
minor costs of Project administration. 
Page  12
-
10 -
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding EUR 200,000 may be 
made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after December 1, 2004.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than EUR 100,000 equivalent per contract; (ii) for services of individual consultants 
costing less than EUR 50,000 equivalent per contract; (iii) for services of consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than EUR 100,000 equivalent per contract; and  
(iv) training and workshops and Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  13
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in modernizing its systems 
of employment, education and social cohesion by developing an effective policy 
infrastructure to implement, manage and evaluate employment, education and social 
cohesion reforms in the MoLSAF and the MOE. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework
Establishment of a framework suitable to permit an effective coordination of the 
different Parts and activities to be carried out under the Project in the two Ministries and 
associated institutions.
 
Part A.1:
Inter-Institutional assessment
Assessment of the current inter-institutional arrangements and information flows 
for policy making and implementation among the two participating Ministries and their 
associated institutions, and development of a consistent and sustainable strategy to 
increase technical capacity for design, implementation and monitoring of the reforms, 
including recommendations for the MOE to support the implementation of the model 
quality management approach (the Common Assessment Framework 2002), through the 
provision of consultants’ services. 
Part A.2:
Project Coordination and Sustainability
Strengthening of the Project coordination mechanisms and the Project 
implementation structure, including those to ensure the effectiveness of policy 
coordination and dissemination mechanisms among the two participating Ministries, 
associated institutions and regional level administration offices, and support to the 
strategies to mainstream and ensure the sustainability of reforms, through the provision of  
consultants’ services. 
Page  14
-
12 -
Part B:
Investment In Human Resources
Improvement in the quality of human resources available for policy making and 
implementation in the two participating Ministries and associated institutions, through 
capacity building of the existing staff supplemented by strategic staff reallocation and 
targeted recruitment, to analyze policy options and the impact of ongoing reforms.   
Part B.1:
Improvement of Human Resource Management Systems
Development of the institutional capacity of the MoLSAF and MOE to build a 
quality human resource management system, including the appropriate setting of 
standards and the improvement of the efficiency of the human resource management, 
through the provision of consultants’ services to analyze the current human resource 
management situation in the MoLSAF and MoE and the identification of specific 
strengths and weaknesses in each Ministry, with a focus on: (i) the development of 
training and staff reallocation plans, proposals and detailed recommendations for the 
improvement of the human resource management systems; (ii) the elaboration of detailed 
proposals for the development and training of human resource managers and staff;  
(iii) improved information systems; (iv) the development of best practice models and 
human resource manuals; (v) needs assessment training and other appropriate training; 
(vi) the definition of performance-based assessment criteria suitable for each Ministry; 
and (vii) proposals for detailed criteria for performance-based evaluation of employees 
and to mainstream pilots throughout the system at local as well as at national level. 
Part B.2:
Staff Training And Development
Identification of training and development needs and opportunities for 
individuals who will work on policy issues within the MoLSAF and the MOE and 
implementation of training plans aimed at: (i) creating capacity through training, 
internships, scholarships, capacity building grants and research grants to develop and 
strengthen skills and knowledge of civil servants in the MoLSAF, MoE, associated 
institutions involved in social and educational policy–making and, where feasible, 
regional and municipal governments and subnational offices of both Ministries;  
(ii) enhancing policy capacity through training and exposure to other policy 
environments, including the building of networks with bilateral and multilateral partners 
and the acquisition of know-how from leading European Union states through short-term 
training and “stages” abroad, seminars and conferences, joint research projects, and peer 
reviews; and (iii) creating instruments to attract new researchers and policy analysts to 
enter the field through scholarship and research grants, all through the provision of 
consultants’ services, entailing: (A) the analysis of local and international specialized 
research and training institutions and think-tanks; (B) the identification of institutions 
with working places able to provide follow-up training, of policy employees ready and 
suitable to acquire skills in these working places, and of suitable topics and suggestions 
Page  15
-
13 -
for workshops; (C) the development of training plans for policy employees suitable for 
the needs of both Ministries and other policy employees in the social sphere and of 
informal mechanisms for policy discussion; (D) the development of informal mechanisms 
for policy discussion, making use of expertise outside the relevant Ministries; and (E) the 
implementation of all training and development activities identified in the 
aforementioned training and development plans. 
Part C:
Building And Upgrading Institutional Capacity
Creation and implementation of an integrated policy management system to 
structure and guide the various steps in the policy cycle in both the two participating 
Ministries and in the complementary network of institutions, through the development of 
the capacity to produce high quality policy outputs in priority areas, thereby ensuring the 
availability of improved statistical and monitoring information for policy makers in the 
field of employment, education and social cohesion. 
Part C.1:
Policy Formulation
Development of effective mechanisms to improve policy making, including the 
development of important national social and educational action plans and reports, 
through the provision of training and consultants’ services in cooperation with the 
MoLSAF and the MoE: (i) to analyze existing procedures for the preparation of policy 
papers in each Ministry; (ii) to prepare manuals to improve the quality of the drafting 
process for policy papers and provide training to policy employees; (iii) to refine and 
revise the documentation on the basis of the clients’ feedback; and (iv) to make 
recommendations to optimize existing procedures for drafting policy papers.    
Part C.2:
Improve Information Base For Social Policy Formulation, Monitoring and     
Evaluation                                                                                 
Improvement of the quality and quantity of internationally comparable data 
available to policy makers in both MoLSAF and MoE and to develop social policy 
monitoring indicators
,
through: (a) the carrying out of a review of existing state of 
libraries
 
and documentation centres; (b)
 
the carrying out of a review of the nature and 
availability of relevant statistical data, with a view to propose a plan to improve the 
timely supply of the data and other information for needed for the formulation, 
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation of social and education sectors policies: (i) to 
recommend the necessary steps to improve the quality of the available data by increasing 
the coverage of the vulnerable groups and broaden the coverage of non-income 
dimensions of poverty; (ii) to revise and extend the list of indicators and benchmarks 
designed for policies in the social and educational sectors; (iii) to analyze existing 
statistical data and make recommendations about what specific data should be provided 
for policy makers in the social and educational sectors; (iv) to recommend appropriate 
Page  16
-
14 -
relevant sources for social and education sector policy makers, including books, 
periodicals, databases and digital sources, indicating their costs; (v) to recommend cost-
effective improvements to the information-documentation centres for policy making in 
both respective ministries; and (vi) to identify data training needs of relevant employees 
and sources of appropriate training; and (c) the implementation of the recommendations 
identified in the aforementioned reviews. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  17
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
2. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
Page  18
-
16 -
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than  
EUR 200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than EUR 100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Page  19
-
17 -
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for such contracts, referred 
to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, shall be subject to prior 
approval of the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  20
-
18 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Section I:
Organizational Arrangements
1. MoLSAF 
and 
MOE
(a) 
Overall responsibility for the Project implementation shall be vested with 
the MOLSAF, which for such purposes shall appoint, not later than May 1, 2005, a 
Project Director with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  
Moreover, the MOE shall appoint, not later than May 1, 2005, a Project Coordinator with 
qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to work with the 
Project Director.  In order to ensure adequate coordination of the Project activities, the 
Project Director and the Project Coordinator shall: (i) work closely with the State 
Secretary of the MoLSAF and the Head of Administration of the MOE; and (ii) meet on a 
regular basis, but not less than once per month.  Without limitation upon the provisions of 
the following paragraphs (b) and (c), both the Project Director and the Project 
Coordinator shall be responsible for all technical background work for the procurement 
process, including preparation of terms of reference and technical specifications, as well 
as development and update of the Project implementation plan.  
 
(b) 
The Project Director shall report directly to the State Secretary of the 
MoLSAF and shall have dual responsibilities for: (i) the implementation and overall 
coordination of the Project, including all required Project reporting; and (ii) the technical 
oversight of the Project activities related to MoLSAF.   In addition, the Project Director 
shall function as the liaison between the Bank and the MOLSAF and other associated 
institutions subordinated to the MOLSAF.
 
(c) 
The Project Coordinator shall report directly to the Head of 
Administration of the MOE and shall be responsible for technical oversight of the Project 
activities related to MOE.  
 
2. Steering 
Committee
With a view to provide policy oversight, coordination and direction for the 
Project as a whole, the Borrower shall establish not later than May 1, 2005, and thereafter 
maintain throughout Project implementation, a Steering Committee comprising 
representatives from the MoLSAF and the MOE. 
 
Page  21
-
19 -
3. 
The Project Coordination Unit
The Borrower, through the MoLSAF, shall ensure that adequate arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank are maintained throughout Project implementation with the PCU 
to carry out the fiduciary functions necessary under the Project. 
 
Section II:
Progress Monitoring and Evaluation and Mid-Term Review
1. 
Semiannual Progress Reports
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower, through the MoLSAF, shall, commencing on the day falling 
ninety (90) days after the Effectiveness Date, and thereafter, not later than January 15 and 
July 15 in each calendar year and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a semiannual progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, describing, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project during the 
preceding semester of the calendar year. 
2. Mid-Term 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring and Evaluation 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about July 15, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 15, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and t
he
Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  22
-
20 -
