                                              Document o f
                                             The World Bank


                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                Report No: 30440-ECA




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   FOR

                                         A PROPOSEDLOAN

        INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO5 MILLION(US$6.47 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                                 FORA

                     HUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASE

                                      OF THE US$l00 MILLION

  SOCIAL AND INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT

                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM(SIDEM)

                 FORELIGIBLEMEMBERS OF THE EUROPEANUNION(APL)




                                           December 30,2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1-December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL        Adaptable Program Lending
BEPG       BroadEconomic Policy Guidelines
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CEDB       Council o fEurope Development Bank
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
ECA        Europe and Central Asia
EC         European Commission
EIB        European InvestmentBank
ERMI1      Exchange Rate MechanismI1
EU         European Union
ECHR       EuropeanCourt for HumanRights
FDI        ForeignDirect Investment
FSAP       Financial Sector Assessment Program
FY         FiscalYear
GDP        GrossDomesticProduct
GSP        Growth and Stability Pact
HCTA       Human CapitalTechnical Assistance
IBRD       InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR        ImplementationCompletionReport
IDF        InstitutionalDevelopment Fund
I F I S    InternationalFinancial Institutions
MoLSAF     MinistryofLabor, SocialAffairsandFamily
MOE        MinistryofEducation
NDP        National Development Plan
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PCN        Project Concept Note
PCU        Project CoordinatingUnit
PIP        Project ImplementationPlan
PPP        Public-Private Partnerships
ROSC       Report onthe Observanceof Standardsand Codes
SIDEM      Social and InstitutionalDevelopmentand Economic Management
TA         Technical Assistance
TOR        Terms o f Reference




                 Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director: Roger Grawe
            Task Team Leader:     Suman Mehra

                                                                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


 SOCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMICMANAGEMENT

                          TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM(SIDEM)

              FORELIGIBLEMEMBERS OFTHE EUROPEANUNION(APL)

                                                                     CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                                           Page
 A.   STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                           .............................................................................................. 1
      1.   Country and sector issues ..........................................................................................................................              1
      2.   Rationale for Bank involvement ................................................................................................................                   2
      3.   Broadprogram objectives..........................................................................................................................                 3

 B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                    .............................................................................................................................   4
      1.   Lending instrument....................................................................................................................................            4
      2.   Programobjective......................................................................................................................................            5
      3.   Project development objectives andkey indicators...................................................................................                               6
      4.   Project components....................................................................................................................................             6
      5.   Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design...................................................................................                              6
      6.   Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection .....................................................................................                             7
 C .  IMPLEMENTATION               .......................................................................................................................................    7
      1.   Partnership arrangements...........................................................................................................................                7
      2.   Institutional and implementation arrangements.........................................................................................                             7
      3.   Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeslresults .........................................................................................                           7
      4.   Sustainability.............................................................................................................................................        8
      5.   Criticalrisks andpossible controversial aspects........................................................................................                            8
      6.   Loan conditions and covenants..................................................................................................................                    8

  D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                   ................................................................................................................................    8
      1.   Economic and financial analyses............................................................................................................... 8
      2.   Technical ...................................................................................................................................................      8
      3.   Fiduciary.................................................................................................................................................... 8
      4.   Social.........................................................................................................................................................    9
      5.   Environment ..............................................................................................................................................         9
      6.    Safeguardpolicies...................................................................................................................................... 9
      7.   Policy exceptions and readiness ................................................................................................................                   9


  ANNEXES

  Annex 1: Country and Sector Background ................................................................................................................                    10
  Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank andlor other Agencies .......................................................                                          14
  Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring...........................................................................................................                       15
  Annex 4: Project Preparation and Supervision.......................................................................................................... 16
  Annex 5: Documents inthe Project File....................................................................................................................                  17
  Annex 6: Statement o f Loans.....................................................................................................................................          18
  Annex 7: Slovak Republic: Human Capital Technical Assistance Project................................................................                                       19


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                               .
without W o r l d Bar& authorization                                 .


A.       STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1.       Country andsector issues

1.1      The economic and social transformation in the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia - which joined the European Union (EU) in May
2004 (the EU8') has been remarkable. Most recently, GDP growth in the EU8 has improved from 2.5
percent in2001 and 2002, to nearly4 percent in2003 and i s projectedto reach about 5 percent in2004.

1.2      The EU8 have made impressiveprogress inbecomingwell-functioning, market-basedeconomies;
nevertheless a challenging development agenda remains (see Annex 1).                 GDP per capita and labor
productivity are only about halfthe level of the 15 countries which were members of the EUprior to May
2004 (hereinafter referred to as the EU15).'          At 55 percent and 30 percent.respectively, the total
employment rate and the employment rate o f older workers (aged 55-64) in the EU8 i s some 10
percentagepoints below that of the EU15. The long term unemployed (12 months and more) inthe EU8
comprise about 8 percent of the total active population, compared to only about 3 percent in the EU15.
Although the EU8 compare very well with the EU15 in education attainment - almost 90 percent of the
population aged 20-24 has completed at least upper secondary school compared to about 75 percent inthe
EU15 - the quality o f education in many EU8 countries is well below EUaverages. Equity o f access to
higher level education and related financing are also significant issues. While the EUgenerally has made
insufficient progress on these and other competitiveness dimensions of the "Lisbon Agenda," the new
memberstates have relativelymuch hrtherto go increatingthe basis for knowledge-based societies.

1.3      The inescapable dynamics of Europe's rapidly aging population are especially keenly felt in the
EU8 countries where there has been, with a few notable exceptions, very limited reform o f traditional
state management o f health and pension systems. With rising expectations inthe population and limited
fiscal space, these are potentially explosive areas. Social inclusion also posesparticular challenges inthe
EU8, given the significant concentrations insome countries of particularly vulnerable groups, such as the
Roma, who now constitute Europe's largest and poorest ethnic minority.

1.4      The extent and nature o f these gaps and related issues have been assessed and confirmed through
analyticalwork carried out jointly by the World Bank and the individual EU8 countries. There is general
consensus that our mutual agenda going forward should focus on two broad areas: first, increasing
competitiveness and improving economic management, including reducing fiscal deficits, and second,
improving health and education outcomes which will also improve fiscal sustainability, increasing the
effectiveness o f the social protection system, and reducing poverty and social exclusion. Institution
buildingis central to bothofthese areas.

1.5      The competitiveness agenda includes improving the business environment, achieving more
balanced regional growth (with emphasis on the rural economy), fiscal decentralization, improving labor
market flexibility, modemizing higher education and health financing, and promoting the knowledge
economy. By focusing on improvements in the quality o f fiscal policy, the EU8 can both accelerate
growth and increase equity. This would entail shifting public expenditures from current to capital
expenditures and reducing subsidies both by rationalizing social assistanceprograms and by restructuring
and privatizing enterprises. In some o f the EU8, fiscal consolidation remains a priority to ensure
sustainability over the medium-term, and an appropriate policy mix on entering the Exchange Rate
Mechanism (Em) 11. The social agenda emphasizes access, quality and equity issues in health, tertiary



'     The term EU8 is usedgenerically although Slovenia has graduated from World Bank borrower status.
      The source for the data inthis paragraph: "Update o f the Statistical Annex (annex 1) to the 2004 Report from
the Commission to the Spring European Council; Structural Indicators" European Union. The Annex includes
Cyprusand Malta inaddition to the EU8, therefore, the numbers inthe text are approximate.

education and training, and social assistance and protectionwith a particular concentration on improving
the quality o fpolicy making to achieve these objectives.

1.6      The overarching theme on the institution building front is to enhance capacity at the national,
regional and local levels to formulate and implement effective economic and social policies. Other
institutional priorities include strengthening the legal and regulatory framework, improving governance,
implementingeffective anti-cormptionprograms, andrestructuring public enterprises.

1.7      EUrules andprocedures for budgetary surveillance and economic policy coordination, set out in
the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines (BEPG) and the Growth and Stability Pact (GSP), will guide the
reform agenda of EUmembersincludingthe EU8.

2.       Rationale for Bank involvement

2.1      A combination of financial and technical assistance provided by the World Bank has played an
important role in supporting the progress which culminated in EU membership3 (also see Annex 2).
Given the challenges aheadduringthe first years o f EUmembership, there is a strong case for the Bank to
continue to meet priority requests for assistance. The Bank i s seeking new ways o f partnering with the
EU8 countries to address their development constraints. A number o f initiatives are proposed in the
Board paper entitled "Framework for World Bank Support to the European Union (EU) New Member
Countries of Central and Eastern Europe" (SecM2004-0283, May 28, 2004) (EU8 Framework Paper)
including an EU8 TA facility.         This paper was discussed at an informal meeting of the Board on
December 7,2004.

2.2      The Bank has been workmg in partnership with the EU8 countries on difficult and sensitive
issues where the Bank's global perspective and "disinterested" position are deemed especially valuable
particularly inthe upstream stages of identifying policy options. Inorder for the Bank to continue to play
a useful and active role along these lines in the EU8 countries, there are five important guidelines for
effective partnership: first, Bank-supported activities must respond to clear country demand; second, the
partnership must be highly selective, reservingBank support for difficult issues, the resolution of which
will have a significant development impact; third, the Bank's response needs to be timely       --  the Bank
cannot be an effective partner if its advice comes too late inthe budget or policy cycle which may often
be constrained by EUor other institutional demands; fourth, the Bankneeds to continue to bringcutting-
edge knowledge to the table, given the expectations andcapacity o fthe EU8 countries; and fifth, the Bank
needs to be as flexible as possible inadapting its procedures inworking with the EU8 countries.

2.3      Timeliness and flexibility are essential in part because the Bank's traditional business practices
could constrain demand from EU8 countries for technical assistance particularly if loans entail
administrative delays or procedureswhich increase the overall costs. While substantial progress has been
made in simplification and harmonization, these need to become the operational standard for the Bank in
the EU8 countries in a way that significantly changes perceptions. The key will be for the Bank
increasingly to align its business practices with those o f the EU8 where those practices are acceptable to
the Bank, and to continue to assist in upgrading EU8 business practices where there are shortfalls which
limit such alignment.

2.4      This kind of framework should enable the Bank to play an even more useful role in partnering
with the EU8 than it has in the past. As the EU8 countries implement the acquis communautaire, and
also pursue the modernization of social services and other development goals not included therein, the



     Since the transition began in the early 1990s through FY04, World Bank lending to the EU8 totaled US$8.8
billion for 119 operations. Currently, 25 operations with commitments totaling US$1.5 billion are under
implementation.


                                                       - 2 -

Bank i s ready to continue its support where relevant and to closely coordinate such support with the EU
and other European institutions includingthe EIB.

2.5     Given the capacity and institution building necessary to achieve the EU8's development
objectives, there i s a continuing role for TA. While the Bank has made every effort to respond to TA
needs from its own budget, there are limits on the extent to which such activity can be adequately
supported even with substantial partner cost sharing. Therefore, lending for technical assistance should
continue to have an important place in the options available to the EU8 during the first years of
membership.

2.6     Reflecting the guidelines mentioned above, the Social and Institutional Development and
Economic Management Technical Assistance Program (SIDEM) has been designed as one o f the key
instruments in this effort. The SIDEM's focus on economic management and institutional and social
development was identified as a priority for the EU8 on the basis of their national programs and the
Bank's own business planning for the EU8 (based in turn on selectivity and comparative advantage).
These national programs and the Bank's plans are fully grounded in the relevant EU policies and
programs, which play the central role inguidingEU8 development.

2.7     The proposed SIDEMwould help enhance access of the eligible countries of the EUto technical
assistance from the Bank by focusing attention collectively on the set of priorities covered by SIDEM,
focusing Bank-Country dialogue on potential technical support to address these priorities and simplifying
World Bank administrative procedures for individual operations, thereby reducing costs and response
times.   The particular arrangements for individual loans under SIDEM will not differ in terms or
procedures from those available to all Bank borrowers. The value added of SIDEM i s its recognition that
collectively the eligible new members o f the EU represent a special client group for which the Bank i s
prepared to organize its staff and resources to deliver timely and cost effective support to help address a
set of development challenges with strong commonality while maintaining individual country focus. The
APL lending instrument for the eligible members of the EU is therefore an excellent vehicle for
enhancing the availability o f BankTA for these countries.

2.8     Inaddition to the constructive role the Bank can play inthe continued development of the EU8,
the Bank has an important opportunity to leam from its operations inthe EU8 countries, and to apply this
knowledge to operations elsewhere in the world. Both lending and non-lending operations in the EU8
have already piloted new approaches which the EU8 countries have actively supported. These initiatives
have yielded important lessons for operations in other middle income countries and, indeed, countries in
less advanced circumstances. For example, the Bank's piloting partnerships inthe financial sector with
some of the EU8 have promoted the Bank's better understanding o f and support to the global financial
architecture. The Bank's partnerships with some o f the EU8 on the knowledge economy front have
provided a better understanding o f effective strategiesto promoteknowledge-based economies.

3.      Broad program objectives

3.1     The broad objective of SIDEM is to assist the eligible countries of the EU to achieve real
convergence within the EU as rapidly as possible while at the same time buildingthe capacity o f these
countries to exert an increasing and positive influence on regional and global policies both through their
role in the EU and, over time, as increasingly important providers o f expertise and donor assistance
themselves.

3.2     All new membercountries of the EUare inthe processofpreparingNational Development Plans
(NDPs), outlining the counties' medium and long term national, regional, and sectoral development
strategies as well as operationalizing the framework for EU financial support and associated domestic
cofinancing during the next EU budget period (2007-13). Preparing these plans is a complex process,
involving not only difficult coordination issues, but also complicated assessments o f potential socio-


                                                     - 3 -

economic trade-offs, alternative public expenditure allocations, and cost-benefit analyses. It is widely
recognized that the initial plans for the remainder of the current EU financial cycle were deficient in a
number of important areas, and some countries have expressed interest in the Bank's support for the
development o f the next NDPs. Inparticular, Polandhas approachedthe Bank for assistanceinreviewing
its draft NDP and various associateddocuments and inorganizingpossible workshops/seminars as part of
the broader consultationprocess.

3.3      Effective use o f EU assistance i s a related objective. The EU has made available up to about
Euros 30 billion4for the EU8 countries for 2004-2006. These funds will only partially finance increased
expenditures as they cover only 50-85 percent of the costs of eligible projects, with the balance o f 15-50
percent to be cofinanced by the individual EU8 countries (pre-financing is another requirement).
Therefore, the associatedfiscal burdenfor the EU8 i s likely to be quite large. The obligations of the EU8
to the EUover the same period are estimated at about Euros 16billion, so that net assistance, inclusive of
cofinancing (ifmobilized from other external sources), could be as little as a quarter o f gross inflows. In
addition to the financial requirements, key challenges for the EU8 administrations at the nationaland sub-
national levels are to identify and prepare quality projects for EU financing, and build the capacity to
absorb EU funds effectively and in a timely manner. Technical assistance could play a key role in
helping to formulate the programs and projects needed to utilize available EU assistance and also
mobilize the cofinancingneeded.

3.4      Another objective of special relevance to the Banki s the creation o fknowledge and accumulation
o f experience inareas o f global concern such as financial sector reform andpensions. On-going andpast
technical assistance to the EU8 in such areas has contributed significantly to the state of global
knowledge, with benefit not only to the specific country but also, through enhancedBank operations, to
other countries faced with similar challenges or contemplating similar reforms.            These forms of
knowledge are essentially global public goods for which the benefits exceed the specific costs o f the
particular exercise. It i s important to recognize the role of EU8 countries as partners and contributors in
this sense as their reform efforts help to build not only their capacity but also help to develop the
knowledgebase o f the Bank andto transfer knowledgeto other countries.


B.       PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1.       Lendinginstrument

1.1      The SlDEM would establish a facility for up to US$lOO million o f technical assistance during
FY2005-2007. The aggregate lending limit would be available to eligible members o f the European
Union' as a group. Loans under SIDEMwould be made available to one or more individual countries in
response to requests for specific TA loans up to the aggregate limit. SIDEM itselfdoes not constitute an
obligation o f the Bank to extend any loans. Rather, funding would be accessed through individual
constituent TA loans, the first of which, a proposed loan to the Slovak Republic for a Human Capital
Technical Assistance (HCTA) Project, i s being presented to the Boardtogether with SIDEM. Subsequent
individual country loans would be prepared for each eligible country in response to requests consistent
with the objective of SIDEM. This design i s consistent with the procedures for horizontal APLs.~In
accordance with the procedures for horizontal APLs, for each "follow-on" loan, the Project Appraisal
Document would be circulated to the Board for information after approval in principle o f the loan by
Management. Inthe absence o f requests from three or more Executive Directors for Board consideration
o f the loan, Management approval would become effective 10 worhng days after circulation o f the
documents to the Board.



     Inconstant2004prices.
     Membersofthe EuropeanUnionwhichare eligibleto borrowfromthe WorldBank (see also footnote 1).
     See "Adaptable Lending:ThirdReviewofExperience" CODE 2002-0071, September 2,2002.


                                                     - 4 -

1.2      Constituent loans would meet all applicable World Bank policies, practices and standards as
discussed below. Loans would vary in size, and the Bank will seek to be as flexible as possible within its
guidelines to meet the needs o f the eligible countries. A minimumloan size would need to be respected
inview of the fixed costs of preparing and implementingloans. Therefore, proposed operations for less
than US$1 million would be carefully vetted for cost effectiveness. Especially for any proposed activity
which mightbe below this level, but also for other requests for TA, the option o freimbursable TA would
also be available. The choice between lending and reimbursable TA would be made on a case-by-case
basis depending on partner preferences and the particular nature o f the TA under consideration. TA
below the US$1 million threshold and TA on the periphery of the agreed priorities under the SIDEM
would be prime candidates for execution on a reimbursable basis. Inaddition, TA involving primarily
Bank staffmay also be executedon a reimbursable basis.

1.3      Loans under SIDEM would be implemented using fiduciary and procurement procedures for
investment operations as appropriate to each case and as the relevant guidelines, OPs and/or BPs may be
amended or updated from time to time. Implementing agencies would be required to have in place
adequate financial management arrangements that support each country-specific project in accordance
with OP 10.02 on Financial'Management. Disbursement arrangementswould be developed and agreed
with eachcountry as part o f eachproject's design, talung into account the country's institutionalcapacity,
assessed risk, and the flexibility offered by the Bank's disbursement procedures and policies, in
particular, the policy on the eligibility of expenditures utilizing approved Country Financing Parameters,
which is already beingusedin Slovalua inthe first operation under SIDEM. Procurement of goods and
works, if any, required for the activities to be financed from a loan under SIDEM shall be undertaken in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Bank "Guidelines - Procurement under IBRDLoans and
IDACredits" datedMay 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines). Similarly, the selection and employment of
consultants' services shall be governed by the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines). Lastly, an environment screening
of each project under SIDEM will be carried out in accordance with the provisions o f OPBP 4.01 to
classify the project from an environmental point of view and determine the appropriate extent andtype of
environmental assessment, if required. Should the Bank's Board of Directors approve in the future a
policy allowing the use o f "country/sector/entity accreditation" along the lines of the procedures
discussed in the paper entitled "Issues in Using Country Systems in Bank Operations" (R2004-0177,
August 23,2004);     any project to be financed under SIDEM could adopt such procedures in accordance
with suchpolicy, which would beappropriately explained and disclosed inthe individual PAD.

1.4      Individual loans could be processed at any time there is a country request (within the approved
time frame) with anupperlimit for individual and aggregate demanddeterminedbythe ceiling of SIDEM
itself and subject to limitations, if any, imposedby country creditworthiness considerations.' This should
result ina significant reduction of the nonfinancial costs associatedwith TA loans and therefore increase
their attractivenessas an instrument for capacity and institution buildingto meet the needs o f the eligible
countries. Initial indications of demand suggest little likelihood that a significant portion of the amount
designatedunder SIDEMwould be usedby any single country.

2.       Programobjective

2.1      In keeping with SIDEM's objective of promoting social and institutional development and
economic management ineligible member countries o f the EU, the first constituent loan o f SIDEM i s the
proposed loan to the Slovak Republic for an HCTA Project, which is being presented with SIDEM.



    As revisedandposted onthe Bank's external website on October 8,2004 for public comment.
    There are currently no creditworthiness-related issues for any o f the EU8 countries for amounts up to SIDEM's
US$100millionlimit.


                                                        - 5 -

SIDEM envisages discrete demand-driven TA projects in the eligible EU member countries, each
designed to meet a particular aspect of the development objectives outlined above. Discussions are on-
going on possible TA to implement reforms injudicial systems, health masterplan implementation, and
public finance management inthree o fthe eligible countries.

2.2      As national programs evolve, the availability of Bank technical assistance to meet priority needs
will be facilitated by this operation. It is expected that countries with more active Bank programs would
naturally be the most active users ofTA facilitatedby SIDEM.

3.       Project development objective and key indicators

3.1      The overall objective is to help promote social and institutional development and economic
management in eligible EU member countries. The specific development objectives of each individual
TA project will be consistent with those for which SIDEM is established and will be agreed upon at the
time of appraisal and stipulated inthe respective PADS.

3.2      The objective of the proposed HCTA Project in the Slovak Republic is the development of
institutional capacity for evidence-based policy malung in the Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and
Family, and the Ministry of Education. The PAD for this project contains a more detailed description of
its objectives.

3.3      A proximate indicator for the success of SIDEM will be the number of TA loans made under it.
Should this operational objective be attained, more meaningful indicators will relate to the higher level
objectives of SIDEM namely, effective use of EU structural funds in participating countries, progress
towards implementing the Lisbon Agenda, and formulating and implementing National Development
Plans and Social Inclusion Strategies. Finally, each constituent loan will have its own set of development
objectives and related indicators which in the aggregate will allow the overall impact of SIDEM to be
assessed.

4.       Project components

4.1      Eachproject under SIDEM will consist mainly oftechnical assistance withthe possibility of
some goods and works ifthese were neededto meet the project objectives.

5.       Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

5.1      Technical assistance has been the subject of many evaluations and critiques with several decades
of mixed experience. The key lessons relevant to the EU8 have been summarized in paragraphs A 2.2,
and A 2.3 above dealing with characteristics of effective partnership with EU8 countries. First, it is
essential that TA be delivered in a true partnership mode with clearly identified demand. Second, in the
case of EU8 countries, TA has been most effective when it respects the sophisticated institutional
environment and well developed human capital base of the EU8 countries. Third, requests for TA from
the EU8 countries are often quite specific and specialized and the Bank must be able to respond flexibly
to such demands. Finally, TA must meldwiththe time frame ofthe recipient agency. The articulation of
these principles in SIDEM provides assurance to the Bank's partners in the EU8 that their needs and
circumstances will be recognized and respected in each loan under the APL framework. The proposed
loan to the Slovak Republic for an HCTA Project under SIDEM indeed embodies these lessons. In
addition, the experience gained with the initial use of country systems in EU8 countries suggests that
further progress can be made in aligning country and Bank standards in procurement and financial
management related to TA operations.          However, in some cases, partners may prefer to use Bank
procurement processes in order to avail themselves of the Bank's broad experience and global access.
This underscoresthe importance of the flexible design built into SIDEM's framework.



                                                      - 6 -

6.       Alternativesconsidered and reasonsfor rejection

6.1      The first alternative considered was to continue "business as usual," processing individual TA
loans to eligble countries. This was rejectedbecauseof the extent to which conducting businessas usual
would continue to dampen demand for such assistance from the EU8 countries, in view o f both the
alternatives increasingly available to the EU8 countries and the needto create a changedperception ofTA
loansbased on the lessons cited above (see paragraphsA 2.2 and A 2.3).

6.2      While, from a country operations perspective, it might be theoretically desirable to devise a new
vehicle which would fixther streamline and enhance access to the Bank's TA, this would be difficult to
achieve in the near term. Hence the alternative of a new instrument or product was not considered
realistic. Within the range of Bank products now available, the horizontal APL was the only one which
would build on continuing improvements in Bank business practices and make TA operations more
attractive for eligible countries.


C.       IMPLEMENTATION
1.       Partnershiparrangements

1.1      The Bank has discussed the SIDEM with EU8 stakeholders at some length, receiving broad
endorsement for malungthis provision available collectively to the group of eligible countries.

1.2      The Bank has also partnered closely with the EUin developing its programs for the eligible EU
member countries, including discussion of the EU8 Framework Paper which provides a general
description o f the TA APL approach.        Individual TA operations under this APL will be closely
coordinated with EUinitiatives, as has been the case with the proposed loan to the Slovak Republic for a
HCTA Project. TA operations could also be associated with activities supported financially by other
European institutions such as the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Council of Europe
Development Bank (CEDB). The Bank has recently undertakenjoint analytic work with EIB on higher
education in Poland and is collaborating with CEDB on regional development linked to coal sector
restructuring in Poland. Both institutions welcome the technical role of the Bank which could be
facilitated under SIDEM.

2.        Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

2.1       Although institutional and implementationarrangementswill vary from country to country, they
will be designedto ensure the efficient use andprompt disbursement o fthe respective loans.

3.        Monitoringandevaluationof outcomedresults

3.1       Outcome indicators will include the number and quality o f projects, programs and policy reforms
that are developed and implementedon the basis o f technical assistanceprojects carriedout under SIDEM
which further the development and integration o f eligible EU countries into EUmarkets and institutions.
Overall, progress of the EU8 in meeting annual programs and agreed EU objectives in the social,
economic, and institutional areas will be an important indicator of whether the Bank has been adequately
flexible inproviding user-friendly highquality TA vehicles for eligible EUmembers. More specifically,
in the economic management area, monitoring will focus on the countries' "Country Economic and
Convergence Programs" which will be submitted to the European Commission(EC) inMay o f eachyear.

3.2       Each constituent TA operation will have its set of targets, benchmarks, and objectives which will
be monitored andreported on inaccordance with Bankprocedures. The results framework developed for
the HCTA Project in Slovakiaprovides a model which couldbe usedfor future TA loans under SIDEM.


                                                    - 7 -

3.3     With respect to monitoring and evaluation for purposes of drawing out lessons leamed by the
Bank which may be applicable to other client countries, intensive learning ICRs for individual projects
under SIDEM would be an important buildingblock. In addition, the CPPR process would provide a
bridge between the project level and sector and national level outcomes in developing lessons for other
countries.

4.      Sustainability

4.1     The track record of the EUS, as confirmed by their accession to the EU, and the demand test
associated with all constituent loans, suggest that reforms developed and supported by the SIDEM will
likely be sustained.


5.      Critical risks and possible controversialaspects

5.1     The most likely project risk for SIDEM is its possible underutilization. This can be looked at
from two perspectives. One risk would be the possibility that the EUS countries were not developing and
implementing reforms at an appropriate pace. This will be tested in terms of the formulation and
implementationo f their NDPs and annual programs, success inconvergence, and improvements in social
and institutional arrangements. A second aspect of this risk would be that the Bank, even with the APL
framework, has not yet modified its business practices adequately or remains too costly and that further
improvements are needed. Bank management i s committed to identifying and resolving such issues
rapidly.

6.      Loan conditions and covenants

6.1     It is envisaged that standard conditionality (regarding institutional arrangements, financial
management and procurement) stipulated in all Loan Agreements would be appropriate for most
circumstances. Inthe event that tailor-made conditionality i s requiredto address any particular need of an
operation, it would be adequatelyreflectedand covenanted inthe relevant legal documents.



D.      APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1.      Economic and financial analyses'

N.A.

2.      Technical

N.A.

3.      Fiduciary

3.1     Financial managementassessments will be undertaken in connection with each individual loan to
be financed under SIDEM, in accordance with the requirements of OP 10.02. On this basis, appropriate




    The related annexes for this and other items which are included in a typical investment operation but are not
relevant for an APL have been omitted, namely: Detailed Project Description; Project Costs; Implementation
Arrangements; Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements; Procurement; Safeguard Policy Issues;
Economic andFinancial Analysis; Country at a Glance; and Maps.


                                                     - 8 -

financial management arrangements will be designed for each project and will be described fully ineach
PAD.

4.       Social

4.1      Itis expectedthat some o fthe operations under SIDEM would have a beneficialimpact on social
sector policy, as inthe case o fthe proposedHCTA Project inthe Slovak Republic. SIDEM i s designed to
facilitate such improvements.

5.       Environment

5. 1     An environmental screening o f each project proposed under SIDEM will be carried out in
compliance with the provisions of OP 4.01 to determine the appropriate extent and type o f environmental
assessment required. However, in view o f the objective o f SIDEM and the main components it will
finance, it i s expected that the projects will have no direct bearing on the environment. Thus, in most, if
not all cases, no further environmental action beyond such screening will be required. Ths and any
additional actions that may be requiredwill be fully described inthe PAD for each subsequent loan under
SIDEM.

6.       Safeguard policies

6.1      Generally, it is unlikely that important safeguard policies will be triggered by the Projects under
SIDEM. Details on their application will be carefully assessed with respect to each constituent loan
proposedunder SIDEM and contained inthe country-specific PAD.


7.       Policy exceptions and readiness

7.1      Nopolicy exceptions are required for SIDEM and thus none are incorporated inthis document.

7.2      With the appraisal and negotiations o f the proposed loan to the Slovak Republic for an HCTA
Project completed, SIDEM i s ready for Boardpresentation.




                                                      - 9 -

                              Annex 1: Countryand Sector Background
                                                   SIDEM

Recent Economic Developments in the EU8

Output growth in the EU8 has picked up significantly in 2004 on the back o f the global recovery and
improved competitiveness. At the same time, inflation has also edged up across the region, reflecting
mainly temporary factors but also the closing of output gaps in several countries. Fiscal adjustment has
been supported by buoyant growth, but deficits remain substantial in some counties. Further, despite
strong export growth, extemal imbalances remain worrisome ina number of countries.

Output growth in the EU8 is robust, having improved from 2.5 percent (weighted average) in 2001 and
2002, to nearly 4 percent in 2003 and is projected to reach about 5 percent in 2004. Recent growth has
been driven primarily by the Baltic countries, Poland, and Slovakia. Industrial growth has been the
biggest dnver in Poland and the Czech Republic, while the service sector has done best in Slovakia,
Hungary and Lithuania. The agriculture and construction sectors have continued to be disappointing,
although there has been some recovery in agriculture in Slovakia and Hungary. Robust growth has
started to make a dent in high unemployment except in the Czech Republic.                  The drop in the
unemployment rate for youngpeople is particularly welcome.

Competitiveness appears to be improving, with the acceleration in industrial labor productivity growth
since the second half of 2003 outpacing wage increases. Inflation has stabilized at a higher level (4.7
percent year on year in November, 2004 from just over 3 percent year on year in early 2004). While
much of this reflects one-off factors related to EU accession (notably changes in indirect taxes and
administered prices), it also reflects the rise in oil and food prices as well as the closing o f output gaps.
While monetary authorities have respondedappropriately by tightening monetary conditions, they need to
remain vigilant in view o f the risk o f second round effects. Insome countries public sector employees
appear to have secured relatively generous wage increases for next year, but private sector wage
negotiations have been moderatedby the still highunemployment rates.

However, muchremains to be done. According to the 2004 Report from the European Commissionto the
Spring European Council'o, productivity in the EU8 was less than half that of the EU15 in 2003.
Business investment was 14 percent o f GDP in the EU8 as compared to 17 percent in the EU15. The
proportion o f gross domestic expenditure on research and development was only 0.8 percent in the EU8
as compared to 2 percent inthe EU15 in2001.

Large external imbalances have persisted in some EU8 countries. The overall current account deficit in
the EU8 increased to 6.7 percent of GDP (12 month rolling average) inthe second quarter o f 2004, with
Hungary and the Baltic countries continuing to display the largest deficits (ranging from about 15 percent
o f GDP inEstonia to about 9 percent o f GDP inLatvia and Hungary). The current account deficit inthe
Czech Republic could reach 6 percent of GDP this year. Inthe other EU8 countries, the current account
deficit i s small and generally covered by foreign direct investment (FDI).

The fiscal outlook has generally improved with strong revenue performance following more buoyant
GDP growth, but sizeable structural deficits remain in several countries, notably the Visegrad countries.
Poland i s implementing an expansionary budget for 2004, but is targeting a significant reduction in the
deficit for 2005. InHungary, fiscal slippages have continued, and plans call for a very gradual process o f
adjustment. The Czech Republic has gained considerable control of its budget, but plans for further
reducing the deficit are unambitious. Slovakia has made the most progress so far in terms of fiscal
consolidation, but further efforts are needed to meet Maastricht criteria inthe time frame that the Slovak



loDelivering Lisbon, Reformso fthe EnlargedUnion, COM (2004) 29 final/2,20/212004.


                                                     - 10-

authorities have indicated. Convergenceprograms agreedwith the EUimpose important discipline on the
conduct o f fiscal policy, but in several cases concrete policy plans for achieving medium-term fiscal
targets remain to be agreed. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovenia have already achieved the fiscal
deficit target of less than 3 percent of GDP. Poland and the Slovak Republic aim to reduce deficits to
below 3 percent o f GDPby 2007, while the Czech Republic and Hungarytarget this for 2008.

Social Sector Development in the EU8

Much remains to be done in the context of the European Council's aim to reduce poverty decisively by
2010. Improved social cohesion is central to the development objectives ofthe EUand the EU8 still need
to make substantial improvements ifthey are to contribute fully to these objectives. Employmentrates in
the EU8 are only 55 percent or about 10percentagepointsbelow employment rates for the EU15. Within
this total, the employment rate for females inthe EU8 i s only 50 percent, compared to about 55 percent in
the EU15, while employment rates for males is slightlyabove 60 percent inthe EU8, compared to over 70
percent inthe EU15. Older workers constitute a special aspect of this problem, with older workers inthe
EU8 having an employment rate o f only 30 percent, compared to about 40 percent in the EU15. The
employment rate for older females inthe EU8 is only about 20 percent, compared to about 30 percent in
the EU15.

With the enlargement of the European Union on May 1, 2004, Roma are now the largest, and one of the
poorest and fastest growing minorities inEurope." The total Roma population inall Europe i s estimated
to be between 7 and 9 million, of which nearly 5 million live in the EU8. The Roma issue i s a core
poverty issue. Roma live indeep poverty even in the more prosperous countries of Central and Eastem
Europe, with Roma poverty rates sometimes more than ten times those of non-Roma. For example, in
2000, in Hungary, 40 percent of Roma were living under the poverty line (less than US$4.30 purchasing
power parity per day), incomparison with only 7 percent o f the total population living under the poverty
line. Roma were often the first laid-off fkom jobs in the early 1990s, and have been among those most
persistently blocked from re-entering the labor force. In 1999, 70 percent o f Roma were unemployed in
the Czech Republic, for example. Many Roma have limitedopportunities to break out ofpoverty due to
low human development status and long-standing discrimination - including lack o f education, poor
health and limited opportunities for participation insocial and political life. Many Roma children do not
attend school and many study in segregated schools. One-fifth o f Roma children in Hungary attend
schools intended for the mentally and physically handicapped. Less than one percent of Roma in Central
and Eastem Europe continue education to any kmd o f postsecondary or university education. As a
summary statistic, the estimated life expectancy o f Roma is 10 to 15 years less than that for the majority
population inCentral and EastemEurope.

Recent efforts to address these issues include the Regional Conference inBudapest inJune, 2003, where
nine countries (including the Czech Republic, Hungary, and the Slovak Republic from among the EU8)
committed to supporting "The Decade o f Roma Inclusion, 2005-20 15." The objective is to accelerate
progress in improving the economic status and social inclusion o f the Roma by implementing individual
national action plans including clear, quantitative targets, with regular monitoring o f progress against
those targets. The Conference also agreed to set up a multi-country Roma Education Fundto improve
educational outcomes for Roma by supporting the scaling up o f pilot initiatives and projects, and
strengthening partnerships between NGOs and governments.




l1   See "Europe and Central Asia Region - Roma Work Program BriefingNote," SedM2004-0428, September 27,
2004.

                                                    - 11-

Institutional Developments in theEU8

This section focuses only on a few aspects of this broad topic, related specifically to implementing the
changes requiredwith the entry of the EU8 into the EU.I2

The EU8 are subject, like all current EUmembers, to EC verification that all EUobligations are met; for
instance, through the "internal market scoreboard" on the transposition of internal market directives
which, inter alia, call for fair competitionamong EUmember countries, and, where, necessary, corrective
measuresthrough administrative and legal action. EU8 countries, inpositioning themselves to absorb the
transfers available to them from the EU, inaddition to the financial considerations noted above, all need
to buildthe capacity to absorb EUfunds effectively and in a timely manner, concerning boththeir central
and sub-national administrations. A substantial amount o f institution building has taken place over the
last few years at the central level where many officials have been involved in membership negotiations
and are largely familiar with the acquis communautaire. In contrast, capacity at the sub-national level
needs considerable strengthening. It i s at this level that many programs to be financed by the Structural
Funds will have to be designedand implemented. This is especially true for investments to improve the
environment-water      treatment plants, hazardouswaste sites, etc.,--and regional and rural development.

Financial sector reform i s an area o f special interest for institutional development. While the EU8 have
made much progress in stabilizing their financial systems and upgrading their legal and regulatory
frameworks in preparation for EU accession (specifically to incorporate the requirements of the acquis
communautaire and the EUFinancial Services Action Plan), there is still muchwork to be done to further
develop their financial systems. A recent Bank Working Paper13has documented that EU8 levels of
financial sector activity (both banlung and non-banking) remain far below those seen in the EU 15 and
other more advanced economies. While EU8 financial assets are growing in absolute terms, EU8 GDP is
growing equally fast or faster. At the same time, the financial services industry in the EU15 itself
continues to grow (while GDP growth i s somewhat lower inthese countries than inthe EU8), resulting in
a widening gap between the two groups of countries when levels of financial intermediationare expressed
as a percent of GDP. Faster and more sustainableeconomic growth andmore developed financial systems
are positively correlated as documented extensively inthe Bank's Finance for Growth Study14. Therefore
the EU8 need to find ways to broaden and deepen their levels o f financial intermediation in the years
ahead to help them bridge the still large wealth and income gaps with the EU15, and also to help them
achieve the Lisbon competitiveness goals which require the emergence of vibrant domestic venture
capital industries. Additionally, the EU8 still need to build enforcement capacity in several areas for the
effective application o f the acquis communautaire, while simultaneously adopting on the same fast track
time table as the EU15 new EUrules and international best practices in areas such as risk based capital
(e.g., Basle 2 for bankingand Solvency 2 for insurance) and corporate governance (e.g., the EUCorporate
Governance Action Plan). It i s envisaged that several o f the EU8 countries will need outside help to
achieve all o f these financial sector goals while maintaining financial sector stability, and may request the
Bank to help identify and effectively implement the requisite policy actions and institutional capacity
buildinginitiatives inthis respect.

Another priority for institutional development concerns the legal andjudicial systems which are critical to
economic growth and competitiveness.          While the EU8 countries are responsible for the adequate
functioning of their justice systems, certain aspects of their jurisprudence fkamework are given by the
European Court for Human Rights and the Europe Council. These responsibilities include ensuring that




     See "Framework for World Bank Support to the EuropeanUnion(EU) New Member Countries of Central and
 EasternEurope," SecM2004-0283, May28,2004.
 l3"Development ofNon-BankFinancialInstitutionsandCapitalMarkets inEuropeanUnion Accession Countries,"
World Bank WorkingPaperNo. 28, February2004.
 l4"Finance for Growth: Policy Choicesina Volatile World," World Bank Policy ResearchReport, April 2001.


                                                     -12-

legal rights are effectively enforced and that intemational legal instruments can be implemented.
Although performance has generally improved, the legal institutions in EU8 countries have not satisfied
the needs and expectations o fbusinesses and the public. Excessive delays, legaluncertainty and highcost
o f services significantly constrain the enforcement o f contracts and the protection o fproperty rights.

The EU8 countries are addressing these issues through systemic reforms o f the judiciary including:
streamliningprocedures; optimizing and automating court operations and management and improving the
regulatory fkamework for the legal professions. Inaddition, the EC, inan agreement with the Ministers of
Justice, has launchedan initiative aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness o fjudicial systems
in European countries. Within this initiative, a set of studies is being conducted to analyze the key
obstacles to the performance o f the courts, legal professionals and access tojustice. It will be important to
operationalize recommendations which emerge from this important initiative.

Inview ofthis agenda, there is clearly substantial scope for Banktechnical assistance to meet pressing
needs, should such assistance be requested.




                                                     - 13-

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                                                 SIDEM

Inrecentyears, WorldBank-financed technicalassistanceinthe EU8countrieshashadsomeappreciable
successes (for example, Financial Sector Assessment Programs (FSAPs), Reports on the Observance of
Standards and Codes (ROSCs), identificationof country strateges to build"knowledge-based societies,"
advice on health and pension reforms, technical support to Baltic transport networks, and capacity
buildingfor rural development). However, the option of borrowing for technical assistanceand capacity
buildinghas not beenwidely utilized. Giventhe relatively small size of TA loans and the needfor quick
responses, the Bank's lengthy loan processing cycle and procurement and disbursement procedures
increasedthe perceived non-financial costs of suchloans.

Inthe Slovak Republic, amulti-year dialogue onhealthreformsculminatedina sector adjustment loan
accompanied by a technical assistance loan reflecting the view o f the Ministries o f both Health and
Finance that such borrowing from the World Bank was necessary to secure the volume and quality of
technical support needed if the reforms were to succeed. The Ministry o f Finance agreed with the
Ministry of Health to treat the TA loan as "additional" to the Health Ministry's normal allocation
reflectingthe impact of the TA loan on the quality ofpublic expenditure. This apprqach could have more
general applicability of capacity and institution building TA lined, for example, to the more effective
utilization of EU structural funds. The Social Benefits Reform Administration project (FY02) aims to
improve the policy framework of the pension system. The Public Finance Project (FY03) provides TA to
strengthen capacity of budget and financial management. An Institutional Development Fund (IDF)
project provides TA and training to the Government in developing and implementing a comprehensive
communicationstrategy insupport o f the 2004-2006 reformprogram.

In the Czech Republic, the Bank co-sponsored recently with the Czech authorities a Public-Private
Partnership (PPP) Forum. Some 15 countries of the region participatedledby the respective ministries of
finance  and economy, with strong participation from the PPP practitioners across the globe and from
international financial institutions (IFIS).This highly successful Forum concluded with the adoption of
the so-called "Five Ps" (Prague PPP Platform) that will create an informal and innovative network for
EU8 and other countries' PPP experts and may leadto the adoptionof a set of principles associatedwith
successful PPPs. This approach to the expanded provision of public services clearly i s highly topical as
most national governments and municipalities or regional authorities are concerned about the vast unmet
demandsand difficult fiscal realities.

In Poland, support to the rural development program has effectively enhanced rural infrastructure,
education and training, micro-enterprise development and administrative capacity building from the
region down to the municipality level. Capacity buildinginthe road sector has provided the institutional
underpinning for significantly scaling up IF1financing to modernize Poland's road network through a
consortium approach. The World Bank has provided technical and institutional support in addition to
financing with Europeaninstitutions providing the bulk o f external resources.




                                                   - 14-

                            Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                                  SIDEM

                                      RESULTSFRAMEWORK

                PDO                       OutcomeIndicators             Use of OutcomeInformation
To assist eligible EUcountries inthe The number andquality o fprojects, Enhanced development prospects o f
development and implementation o f   programs, and policy reforms that  eligible EUcountries. Convergence
reforms inthe economic, social, and  are developed and implementedon    programs improved. Social
institutional areas.                 thebasis oftechnical assistance    programs developed and
                                     projects implementedunder SIDEM    implementedto reduce exclusion
                                     which further the development and  and improve welfare. Institutional
                                     integrationo feligible EUcountries reformto improve effectiveness and
                                     into EUmarkets and institutions.   efficiency.




                                                     - 1 5 -

                           Annex 4: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                                                 SIDEM

                                                        Planned                       Actual
PCNreview                                           October 13,2004              October 13,2004
Initial PIDto PIC
InitialISDS to PIC
Appraisal                                          November 1,2004
Negotiations                                             N.A.
Boardapproval                                       January 25,2005
Planneddate o f effectiveness                            N.A.
Planneddate o fmid-term review                           N.A.
Plannedclosing date                                  December 2007


Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation of the project:

Concerning the initial technical assistance project supportedby the APL, the Slovak Ministryof Ministry
o f Labor, Social Affairs andFamily and the Ministryo f Education.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                    Title                           Unit
SumanMehra                                   CPC and Task Team Leader                ECCU7
Hans Jurgen Gruss                                    ChiefCounsel                    LEGEC
ClaudiaM.Pardinas Ocana                             Senior Counsel                   LEGEC
Christine M.Castillo                             Operations Analyst                  ECCU7
Michael Lav                                           Consultant                     ECCU7
Viktoria Kovacs                                       Consultant                     ECCU7
Anna Goodman                                      ProgramAssistant                   ECSHD

Bank funds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:

     1. Bank resources:          US$85,000
     2. Trust funds:             N.A.
     3. Total:                   US$85,000

Estimated approval and supervision costs:

1. Remainingcoststo approval:                     US$15,000
2. Estimated annual supervision cost:             nil.




                                                    -16-

                      Annex 5: Documentsinthe Project File
                                   SIDEM

1.  Project ConceptNote




                                     - 17-

                                       Annex 6: Statement of Loans
                                                    SIDEM

                                 Operations Portfolio (IBRDand Grants)
                                            as of date 12/29/2004
                                                                                              DifferenceBetween
                                                                                             ExpectedandActual

                  Active Proiects                          Oneinal Amount in US$ Millions       Disbursements

Project  Fiscal Project Name                               IBRD      GRANT          Undisb.             Formally
ID       Year                                                                                    Orig'   Revised

                                                  HUNGARY

PO08497  2000   Municipal Wastewater                         31.60                     12.52     11.59       7.77
                Total                                        31.60                     12.52     11.59       7.77

                                                   LATVIA

PO58476  2001   LiepajaS. W. Management                       2.22                     0.71       0.71       0.71

PO69890  2003   PSAL 2                                        20.21                    20.21     20.21

PO40553  1998   Solid Waste Management                        7.95                     2.08       2.08       -0.49

PO45716  1998   Solid Waste Management(GEF)                               5.12          0.20      0.20        0.18
                Total                                         30.38       5.12         23.19     23.19        039

                                                  LITHUANIA

PO70112  2002   EducationImprovement                          25.39                    18.55      1.69
PO35780  2000   Health                                        21.24                     4.20      4.16
PO35776  2000   Klaipeda Port                                 35.36                     7.83      7.86

PO35802  1999   Municipal Development                         20.00                     8.00      7.33
PO08539  1997   SocialPolicy Community Service                 3.70                     0.78      0.78        0.78
PO73242  2003   Vilnius HeatDemandManagement(GEF)                          6.50         6.30      0.10
                Total                                        105.69        6.50        45.82     21.93        0.78
                No. of IBRD Operations                            5

                                                   POLAND

PO08595  1996   Bielsko-BialaWater                            21S O                     2.89      4.83        1.87

PO83093  2005   Coal MineClosure                             100.00                   113.24      -0.05
PO53796  1998   FloodEmergency                               200.00                    16.14      16.14      16.14

PO37339  2000   GeothermalDH& Env (Podhale)                   38.20                    32.24      22.61

PO57993  2000   GeothermalDH& Env (Podhale) GEF                             5.4         1.99       1.77
PO66512  2004   HardCoal SocialMitigation                    200.00                    51.29
PO65059  2001   Krakow Energy Efficiency                      15.00                    13.08       7.18
PO40795  2001   Rail Restructuring                           101.00                     0.16      -0.81
PO78170  2004   Road Maintenanceand Rehabilitation           126.00                    10.14       3.60
PO08593  1998   Roads2                                       300.00                    33.85      25.64      25.64

PO58202  2000   RuralDevelopment                             120.00                    20.15       8.18      -4.55
 PO08615 2001   Seaway/Port Modernization                     38.50                    19.78       8.88
                Total                                       1260.20         5.4       316.07     -52.13      39.10


                                                  SLOVAKIA
 PO65954 2004   HealthReform                                  62.92                    47.56      -0.13

 PO82879 2004   HealthTA                                      12.38                    11.88       2.91

 PO69864 2003   PublicFinanceManagement                        5.45                     5.56       1.84
 PO38090 2002   SocialBenefitReformAdministration             23.54                    30.51      17.54         2.0
                Total                                        104.29                    95.51      22.16         2.0


                                                  SLOVENIA
 PO55304 1999   Real Estate Registration                      15.00                     2.67       2.99
                Total                                         15.00                     2.67       2.99
                OVERALL TOTAL
                TOTAL AMOUNTS                               1547.16       17.02       495.78
                No. of IBRD OperationdGrants                     25           3


                                                       - 1 8 -

                           ANNEX 7




                     , SLOVAK REPUBLIC:

          HUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                   AS PART OF A US$lOO MILLION
SOCIAL AND INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
             TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (SIDEM)
        FORELIGIBLEMEMBERS OF THE EUROPEANUNION(APL)




                        December30,2004




                              - 19-

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            Exchange Rate Effective: October 8,2004

                  Currency Unit = Slovak Koruna
                          40.05 = 1EURO

                          FISCALYEAR
                    January 1    - December31


              ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ALMP     Active Labor Market Program
APL      Adaptable ProgramLending
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFP      Country FinancingParameter
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
cso      Civil Service Office
DLMA     Debt and LiquidityManagement Agency
DO       Development Objective
ECA      Europe and Central Asia
EU       European Union
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
HCTA     HumanCapital Technical Assistance Project
IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      ImplementationCompletion Report
IDF      Institutional Development Fund
MoLSAF   MinistryofLabor, SocialAffairs andFamily
MOE      MinistryofEducation
MOF      MinistryofFinance
MOJ      MinistryofJustice
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OECD     Organization o f Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCN      Project Concept Note
PCU      Project CoordinationUnit
PIP      Project ImplementationPlan
SBRA     Social Benefits ReformAdministration
SOE      Statementof Expenditures
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms ofReference
UNDP     UnitedNations Development Program
WB       World Bank


               Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
            Country Director:       Roger Grawe
              Sector Director:      Charles Griffin
          Task Team Leader:         Mary Canning




                               - 20 -

                                                         SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                 HUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                                                    CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                                          Page
A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                           ............................................................................................   23
    1.    Country and sector issues........................................................................................................................                 23
    2.    Rationale for Bankinvolvement ..............................................................................................................                      24
    3.    Higher level objectives to which the project contributes .........................................................................                                24

B.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                      ...........................................................................................................................     24
    1.    Lending instrument..................................................................................................................................              24
    2.    Programobjective andPhases.................................................................................................................                       24
    3.    Project development objective and key indicators                             ...................................................................................  25
    4.    Project components..................................................................................................................................              25
    5.    Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design.................................................................................                                 26
    6.    Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection...................................................................................                               26

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                .....................................................................................................................................     26
    1.    Partnership arrangements......................................................................................................................... 26
    2.    Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomeslresults .......................................................................................                            27
    3.    Sustainability ........................................................................................................................................... 27
    4.    Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects......................................................................................                            27
    5.    Loan conditions and covenants................................................................................................................                     28

D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                    ..............................................................................................................................     28
    1.    Economic and financial analyses............................................................................................................. 28
    2.    Technical ................................................................................................................................................. 28
    3.    Fiduciary.................................................................................................................................................. 29
    4.   .Social.......................................................................................................................................................     29
    5.    Environment ............................................................................................................................................ 29
    6.    Safeguard policies.................................................................................................................................... 30
    7.    Policy exceptions andreadiness ..............................................................................................................                     30




ANNEXES

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground.............................................................................................                               31
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies .......................................................                                          35
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring...........................................................................................................                         36
Annex 4: DetailedProject Description ......................................................................................................................                 39
Annex 5: Project Costs .............................................................................................................................................. 44
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements ...................................................................................................................                    45
Annex 7: Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements ..........................................................................                                        47
Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements........................................................................................................................ 51
Annex 9: Economic andFinancial Analysis ..............................................................................................................                      56
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues............................................................................................................................ 57
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision........................................................................................................ 58
Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File.................................................................................................................. 59
Annex 13: StatementofLoans and Credits ...............................................................................................................                       60
Annex 14: Country at a Glance.................................................................................................................................. 61

Map:
IBRD32523


                                                                              .21.

                       Slovak Republic: HUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                                                PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT
                                                     Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                                   ECSHD




[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant   [] Guarantee   [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
TotalBank financing: Euro 5 million
Proposed terms: The loan would be a fixed-spread loandenominated inEuro, payable in5 years, including 4.5 years grace period, with
commitment-linked repayment schedule, and bullet principal repayment at a standardvariable interest rate for Euro FSLs, with a
commitment fee o f 0.85%of undisbursedbalances for first four years, standard charge o f 0.75% thereafter, beginning 60 days after signing,




Responsible agencies: Ministryo f Labor, Social Affairs                                Ministryo fEducation
                        Spitalska 4-6                                                  Stromova 1
                        81643 Bratislava                                               813 30 Bratislava
                        Slovak Republic                                                Slovak Republic




                                                                                                            oYes     X No



Project development objective
The project will assist the Borrower in modemizing its systems of employment, education and social cohesion by developing an effective policy
infrastructureto implement, manage andevaluate employment, education and social cohesion reforms in the MoLSAF and inthe MoE.


Project description [one-sentence summary of each component]
Component 1: Creationof a Policy Capacity. The objective o fthis component is to create a framework within which policy making and
the design and implementationo fcomponents o freform inthe two Ministries and associatedinstitutions canbe coordinated.
Component 2: InvestmentinHumanResources. The objective o fthis component is to achieve a significant improvement inthe quality
o fhuman resources available for policy making and implementation inthe two participating Ministries and associated institutions, through
the training and development of existing staff inpolicy and reformimpact analysis and through targeted recruitment strategies.
Component 3: Building and Upgrading Institutional Capacity. The objective o f this component is to create and implement an
integrated policy management system to structure and guide the various steps inthe policy cycle inboth the participating Ministries, and in
the network o f associated institutions.
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Environmental Assessment



                                                                     - 22 -

A.      STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1.      Country andsector issues

Since 1998, Slovalua has followed an impressive reform agenda, ranging from public finance to
employment, education, health and social cohesion. The principal aim has been to make labor law and
the welfare system more accommodating for productive employment, the taxation and regulatory
frameworks more supportive of new enterprise creation and business sector development, and the public
education system more efficient, effective and responsive to the needs o f a twenty-first century
environment. There is now, however, concern that the improvement in efficiency has been achieved at
the expenseof an increase ininequality and poverty, with the reforms havingreduced access to economic
opportunities and basic services for the socially excluded and those left behind by recent economic
growth.

Trendsin Poverty and Inequality

Data on poverty and income distribution are poor, and generally not internationally comparable. Despite
recent contradictory findings, the generalperception is that poverty is relatively low and income relatively
equally distributed.

Slow Growth in Employment

Concerns about equitable outcomes o f the reforms to date are reinforced by the finding that, so far,
growth in GDP does not appear to have been fully reflected in more favorable labor market outcomes.
After four years of negative growth, employment increased by only 1percent or less in2001 and 2002
and the increasehas remained below 2 percent in 2003. In addition, the growth has been concentrated in
the service sector and predominately for the older age group (55-64). Notably, employment rates for
people with low slulls are extremely low by international standards.            Groups particularly hit by
unemployment include Roma, whose unemployment rate is estimated by UNDP at 64 percent, school-
leavers, the disabled and people with small children.        There has been a slight drop in the youth
unemployment rate, but it remains alarmingly high, at 37.3 percent in 2002, compared with an EU
averageof 15.1 percent.

Needfor further educational reforms

The modemization of the vocational education system and the strengthening of linkages to the labor
market constitute part o f the unfinished agenda. Training policies are especially needed to focus on
improving the re-employment prospects of the disadvantaged groups. The completion of the reform of
higher education is now a priority for government which plans to introduce further legislation early in
2005.

Need to strengthen analytical capacity tosupportfurtherpolicy-making

Increased capacity within the Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family (MoLSAF) and the Ministry
of Education (MOE) would improve the systematic evaluation o f the potential impact o f the labor market
and educational reforms on employment and access to education. The need to be able to diagnose
obstacles to their progress, and analyze the implications of alternative public expenditures and other
policies on sectoral outcomes is critical to the design o f further reform. Policy-malung would benefit
from improved coordination. Moreover, the absence o f reliable and nationally representative data on
income and other indicators o f poverty and vulnerability makes it impossible to analyze trends inpoverty
and social exclusion, which hampers the design o f effective policies inthis area.




                                                  -23 -

  The MoLSAF, inclose cooperation with the MOE, hasrequestedthe Bank for the proposedproject which
   would strengthen Slovalua's capacity for policy making inemployment, education and social cohesionby
   focusing on humanresources,processes, institutionsand outputs.

   2.     Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

   The Bank has been engaged for a number of years in a comprehensive policy dialogue with both the
   MoLSAF and the MOE. Extensive analytical work has been done inthe area of social assistance. The
   programmatic Living StandardsAssessment currentlyunderwaywill informthe dialogue onpoverty. The
   Bank has also provided technical assistance on higher education financing. The Bank recognizes that the
   improvement o f policy capacity i s a key to sustainability of the ambitious reform process started in
   Slovakia in 1998and acceleratedsince 2002.

   3.     Higherlevelobjectivesto which the projectcontributes

   The Government o f Slovakia intends to consolidate the reforms undertaken to date, and to couple them
  with forward-loolung and mutually consistent employment and social cohesion policies in order to
.  achieve a lasting decline inpoverty and social exclusion. These reforms will be a necessarycondition of
   Slovakia's continuedgrowth.

   The Human Capital Technical Assistance (HCTA) project will contribute to these objectives by
   developing the human resources involved inpolicy-making; strengthening the management systems and
   processesgoverningpolicypreparation and ensuringthe capacity for evidence basedpolicy monitoring.

   The proposed project i s fully consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy" goals o f supporting
   poverty alleviation through economic development, strengtheninglabor market reforms and introducing
   education reforms. It directly relates to two o f the three main development challenges for Slovakia as
   discussedinthe CPS: (i)    to make Slovakia fully competitive inEuropean and World Markets through the
   implementation o f the structural reforms to improve labor and capital mobility; and (ii) reduce poverty
                                                                                          to
   and unemployment and to address the marginalizationo f Roma.



   B.      PROJECTDESCRIPTION
   1.      Lendinginstrument

   The Govemment has requested a Technical Assistance loan of Euro 5 million. The project will finance
   technical assistance, limitednumber o f goods contracts and minor operating costs.

   The Slovakia HCTA Project i s the first TA project to be presented under the EU8 TA Adaptable Program
   Loan, with which its objectives are fully consistent. The Slovakia HCTA also demonstratesthe need for
   the EU8 TA APL, and how the Bank and the EU8 intendto utilize the APL inthe future.

   2.      ProgramobjectiveandPhases

   N.A.




     15 CountryPartnership Strategy, M a y 6,2004.


                                                      - 24 -

3.       Project development objective and key indicators

The project will assist the Borrower in modernizing its systems o f employment, education and social
cohesion by developing an effective policy infrastructure to implement, manage and evaluate
employment, education and social cohesionreforms inthe MoLSAF and inthe MOE.

Ifsuccessful, the project will develop institutional capacity for evidence-basedpolicy malunginthe two
participating Ministries.

Keyindicatorsof success are set out inAnnex 3.

4.       Project components

Theproject will have three components:

Component 1:         Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework (Euro 0.96 million, including
contingencies)

The objective o f this component is to create a framework within which policy making and the design and
implementation o f components of reform in the two Ministries and associated institutions can be
coordinated. The component will provide technical assistanceto: (i) the current inter-institutional
                                                                       assess
arrangements for policy-making and implementation for social and educational policy malung and
implementationamong the two participatingMinistries and their associatedinstitutions; and (ii)  develop a
consistent and sustainable strategy to increase technical capacity for implementation and monitoring of
the reforms. Additionally, the component will provide support for:           (iii)the creation of project
coordination mechanisms and the necessary project implementation structure; and (iv) strategies to
mainstream and ensure the sustainability ofreforms.

Component2: InvestmentinHumanResources(Euro3.40 million,includingcontingencies)

The objective o f this component is to achieve a significant improvement inthe quality o fhumanresources
available for policy making and implementation in the two participating Ministries and associated
institutions, through the training and development o f existing staff inpolicy and reform impact analysis
and through targeted recruitment strategies. The component will provide assistance to: (i)    improve the
quality of the Human Resource Management systems in both MoLSAF and MOE; (ii)             identify training
needs and opportunities (including internships, scholarships, capacity building grants and research
grants); (iii) enhance policy capacity through the provision of training and exposure to other policy
environments; and (iv) create instruments to attract new researchers and policy analysts to enter the field
through scholarship and researchgrants.

Component 3:       Building and Upgrading Institutional Capacity (Euro 0.62 million, including
contingencies)

The objective of this component is to create and implement an integrated policy management system to
structure and guide the various steps in the policy cycle in both the participating Ministries, and in the
network o f associated institutions. The component will: (i)    develop effective mechanisms to improve
evidence-based policy making, including the development of important national social and educational
actionplans and reports; (ii) improve the quality and quantity of internationally comparable data available
to policy makers in both MoLSAF and MOE; and (iii)             will develop social policy monitoring and
evaluation indicators inthe field of employment, education and social cohesion.




                                                   - 25 -

5.      Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

The proposed project builds on several years of policy dialogue with the two principal Ministries
(MoLSAF and MOE). Specifically, the project will buildon the Social Sectors Expenditure Review, on
the extensive analytical work that had been done as part of the proposed Social Development Fund
operation in Slovakia; on the Living Standards Assessment and on several years o f policy dialogue and
technical assistanceto the Ministryof Education.

The experience o f two other technical assistance loans in Slovakia has been helpful inthe design o f this
project. The Public Finance Management Project (2003) which is being implemented through the
Ministry of Finance focuses on strengthening the management of the public sector and is thus directly
relevant to this project. The Health Sector Modernization Support Project (2004) also has a component
on capacity building.

The lessons leamed to date from these and other Capacity BuildingLoans are that the preconditions of
excellent technical assistance always include: (i)strong ownership o f the project in the relevant
Government Ministries and other participating institutions; (ii)    understanding o f the objective o f the
reforms supported by the project; and (iii) clear project goals that are well communicated to stakeholders
both inside implementingMinistries and in associated institutions. These lessons are reflected in the
design o f the project.

6.      Alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection


The project respondsto a direct request for a technical assistanceloan for a specified purpose. No other
altematives were considered.



C.       IMPLEMENTATION
1.       Partnershiparrangements

No other agencies are financing the project.

Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The project will be implemented over a three-year periodby two agencies: the MoLSAF and the MOE. A
Project Director for HCTA will be appointed in the MoLSAF to oversee technically the respective
activities relatedto the MoLSAF, as well as to ensure overall coordination of project implementation. In
addition, the MOE will also appoint a Project Coordinator, who will provide technical oversight of the
MOE relatedactivities. The Project Director and the Project Coordinator will work closely with the State
Secretary o f the MoLSAF and Head o f Administration of the MOE to ensure proper implementation o f
project activities in terms of substance. To provide policy guidance and direction for the project as a
whole, a Steering Committee, comprisingrepresentatives from MoLSAF and MOEwill be established.

The Project Director for HCTA will have dual responsibilities. Inhis capacity as a coordinator of the
MoLSAF part of the project he/she will be responsible for (i)     overall coordination o f all technical tasks
related to MoLSAF part o f the project, (ii)coordination of inputs required for procurement and
disbursement activities such as TORS, qualification requirements for the consultants, specifications,
description of scope o f services, and etc., (iii)   liaison between the Bank and the MoLSAF, other
associatedinstitutions subordinated to the MoLSAF. Inhis capacity as a Director o f a joint (MoLSAF
and MOE) project, he will be a main communication channel with the Bank, coordinate preparation of
requiredjoint project reports and overall project coordination.



                                                    - 26 -

The Project Coordinator for the MOEpart ofthe project will provide technical oversight and coordination
of its respective activities, and provision of technical input (for example, the TORS) for planned
consulting and training assignments, as well as updates of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) to the
Project Director. To ensure coordination of the project activities, the Project Director for HCTA and
Project Coordinator inthe MOEwill meet on a regular basis.

The Project Director for HCTA will report directly to the State Secretary in the MoLSAF. The Project
Coordinator will report directly to the Headof Administration inthe MOE. The ImplementingMinistries
have advised the Bank that the fiduciary functions would be assigned by the internal order of the
MoLSAF to the PCU for the Social Benefits Reform Administration (SBRA) Project, which is integrated
in the MoLSAF and has solid experience in the Bank's projects implementation. The current PCU
structure i s as follows: two staff (director and one of the procurement specialists) are consultants, while
two other staff are employees of the Social Insurance Agency (another implementingagency o f the
SBRA) and are civil servants. The PCUDirectorreports directly to the Minister ofMoLSAF.

The financial manager and procurement specialist fkom the PCU are experienced with the Bank
requirements and trained inthe Bankprocedures and guidelines.

2.       Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

As described in Annex 3, the Project will be monitored through supervision, progress reports,
studies/surveys, expert assessment, and empirical data. A key project objective i s to buildcapacity for: (i)
evidence-based policy making; (ii)     evaluation of the impact of economic reforms on poverty and social
exclusion; and (iii)  monitoring the trends inthe living standards o f the populationingeneral and its most
vulnerable groups in particular. The project will assist the Government to establish a performance
monitoring and evaluation system that will enhance human resources management, budgeting, and
strategic planning. The outcome and results indicators to be used are described inAnnex 3.

3.       Sustainability

The project has been designed in response to the request of the MoLSAF senior management in
cooperation with the MOE. The project design is based on the detailed proposals o f the Borrower for
assistance to develop capacity to manage own-initiated reforms, evaluate their effects and develop further
strategies to improve access to education and economic opportunities for the Slovak population. The loan
will not provide any incremental resources to the MoLSAF and to the MOEbut will be financed by the
budget o f the Ministries. Although there i s no counterpart funding, the two participatingMinistries will
not receive additional budget financing for this project, so effectively their budgets have beenreduced in
order to contribute notionally towards the total borrowing for this project. Assuming that the existing
strong leadership continues, it is expected that project outcomes will be mainstreamed in the MoLSAF,
and to a lesserextent inthe MOE, within the lifetime o f the project.

4.       Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

There i s a risk that the benefits of the project will not be shared equally across different units of the two
participating Ministries or with other institutions outside the Ministries. Thus, certain departments and
individuals may have an advantage by being more exposed to capacity building opportunities. This
would dilute the effects of the project on long term building o f national policy capacity. In order to
mitigate this risk, the project will explicitly seek to ensure wide coverage o f the capacity building
activities andwide participation across unitsand also at selected sub-national Departments.




                                                     - 27 -

There i s also a risk the ownership of the project would be confined to senior reform-minded officials in
the participating Ministries. Broadening the stakeholder base, especially to include educational or labor
institutions, inactivities financed by the project, would partially mitigate this risk.

5.       Loanconditionsandcovenants

There are no specific conditions for Loan Effectiveness

Covenants:

e        The Borrower: (i)    through the MOLSAF, shall appoint, not later than May 1, 2005, a Project
         Director; and (ii)through the MOE, shall appoint, not later than May 1, 2005, a Project
         Coordinator, both of them with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
         Bank.

e        Inorder to ensurean adequate coordinationof the Project activities, the Borrower shall ensure
         that the Project Director and the Project Coordinator shall meet on a regular basis, but not less
         than once per month.


e        The Borrower, through the MoLSAF, shall, commencing on the day falling ninety (90) days after
         the Effectiveness Date, and thereafter, not later than January 15 and July 15 ineach calendar year
         and until Project completion, prepare and furnish to the Bank a semiannual progress report
         describing the progress achieved in the implementation o f the Project during the preceding
          semester o fthe calendaryear.

e        The Borrower shall review with the Bank, by September 15, 2006, or such later date as the Bank
          shall request, a report prepared by the Borrower on the basis of the Monitoring and Evaluation
          Indicators and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
         Project and the achievement ofthe objectives thereof.


0         With a view to provide policy oversight, coordination and direction for the Project as a whole, the
          Borrower shall establish, not later than May 1, 2005, and thereafter maintain throughout Project
          implementation, a Steering Committee comprising representatives from the MoLSAF and the
          MOE.


0         The Borrower, through the MoLSAF, shall ensure that adequate arrangements satisfactory to the
          Bank are maintained throughout Project implementation with the PCU to carry out of the
          fiduciary functions necessaryunderthe Project.



D.        APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1.        Economicandfinancialanalyses

N.A.

2.        Technical

N.A.




                                                     - 28 -

3.      Fiduciary

A large part of the project financial management process will rely upon the existing systems o f the
MoLSAF and the MOE, with the exception o f the production o f the final financial reports for the Bank
and the Project Director for HCTA. These will be handled by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for
the Slovakia Social Benefits Reform Administration (SBRA) Project (which is also i s based in the
MoLSAF). The implementing ministries have advised the Bank that the fiduciary functions would be
assigned by the internal order of the MoLSAF to the PCU for the Social Benefits ReformAdministration
(SBRA) Project, which i s integrated in the MoLSAF and has solid experience in implementing Bank
projects. Ths arrangement to handle the fiduciary functions through the SBRA PCU will continue until
the end o f the project, unless the MoLSAF advises the Bank o f any other alternative arrangements which
would then need to be assessed and accepted by the Bank before making any changes in the
implementation arrangements.

Disbursements from the Bank loan will follow the transaction-based method, i.e. reimbursements with
full documentation andreimbursements against Statements o fExpenditure (SOE). Due to the constraints
of the Budget Law, the project will not disburse using direct payments, special commitments or a Special
Account. The project will not migrate to report baseddisbursement.

A review was undertaken in November 2004 to determine whether the financial management
arrangements for the Project are acceptable to the Bank. Based upon the results o f the assessment, the
Project satisfies the Bank's financial management requirements.

Interms ofprocurement, the implementingagencies havemadea decision to apply the Bankprocurement
guidelines and procedures, mobilizing existing staff already experienced in implementation o f Bank-
financed projects. Since the first technical assistance contracts have to be in place shortly after project
effectiveness, neither Ministryhas the capacity to assign staff knowledgeable inthe consultants' selection
procedures. Implementing agencies opted for speedy preparation o f the critical TA packages, following
the procedures already known to them rather than tahng a transitional period at the beginning o f the
project, to buildinternal capacity inthe new procedures harmonizedbetween EUand the World Bank for
application inECCU7 countries for the Bank-financedprojects.

4.       Social

Over the past five years, key stakeholders in Slovakia have been extensively consulted about social
inclusion and education policies. A s part o f the poverty and social inclusion dialogue and the
development o f the Social Development Fund, the team held meetings, published articles, appeared on
television, visited Project sites, and participated in roundtables with NGOs, academic institutions and
think tanks. The poverty teamhas also maintainedclose advisory linkswith the MoLSAF. As part ofthe
educational dialogue, several workshops were held, most notably on life long learning and higher
education reform.     This consultation work has been fed into the dialogue with both participating
Ministries and has directly contributed to the recognition that better capacity for evidence-based policy
making will lead to improved social and education policies.

5.       Environment

N o infrastructure rehabilitation or improvements will be financed under the loan and therefore
environmental category C will be applied for this Project.




                                                   - 2 9 -

6.     Safeguard policies

  SafeguardPoliciesTriggeredbythe Project                       Yes     No
 EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                        [XI     [ I
 NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                   [I      [XI
 PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                       [I     1x1
 CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)            [ I     [XI
 InvoluntaryResettlement(OPBP 4.12)                             [I      [XI
 IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)             [I      [XI
 Forests(OPBP 4.36)                                             [I      [XI
  Safety ofDams (OPBP 4.37)                                     [ I     [XI
 ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                         E l    [XI
 Projectson IntemationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)               [ I     [XI

7.     Policy exceptions and readiness

The Projectdoesnotrequireany exceptionsfrom the Bankpolicies.




                                             - 30 -

                       Annex 1: CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
            SLOVAKREPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

After the impressive growth rates of the mid-90s, the Slovak economy went through a period of economic
slowdown in the period 1998-2000 as a result of measures designed to reduce the high current account
deficit inthe balance o f payments. However, by 2001 the economy was on a recovery path with the 3.8
percent real GDP growth o f 2001 risingto well above 4 percent inthe following years and forecast to get
close to 5 percent in2004, inthe aftermath of EUaccession.

The Slovak Republic has implementedtwo important rounds of structural reforms inthe past five years.
The first round followed the 1998 elections, which put an endto a period of dirigsme and international
isolation. It focused on key liberalisation policies and resulted in growing inflows of foreign direct
investment and large-scale industrial restructuring, triggering a significant productivity growth. The
government that emerged from the September 2002 elections, as a modification o f the previous coalition,
strengthened the liberalization reforms begun by its predecessor, undertahng a set of more politically
demanding reforms.

The resulting reform package was very extensive and far-reaching, ranging from public finance to
employment, education, health and social cohesion. It also, however, had a high degree o f internal
consistency with the focus on fostering growth, improvingthe average living standardsthe population and
reducing poverty and social exclusion. As such, the reforms addressed the need to: (i)      introduce more
flexibility inthe labor market; (ii)  reduce the existing disincentive to work and provide incentive for the
long-term unemployed to join the labor market; (iii) the taxation and regulatory frameworks more
                                                         make
supportive o f new enterprise creation and business sector development; and (iv) make the public
education systemmore efficient, effective andresponsive to the needs of a 21'` century environment.

The cornerstoneso f the reformhave been:

      A new Labor Code, designedto introduce labor market flexibility by:

      o Introducingthe optionofanumber ofnon-standard labor contracts;
      o Increasing the employer's flexibility to terminate acontract; and
      o Redefining the rules for workers' representation.

      The reform of the welfare system designed to increase incentives to work and improve the
      targeting o f social welfare benefits by:

           Reducingminimumbenefit for a single adult to an amount below the subsistence minimumand
           introducing a ceiling for the maximumbenefit payable to a family with more than four children;
           Introducing a number of new benefits for the working poor, available to families where the
           adults are either working or participating in active labor market programs (ALMP) and
           expanding entitlement to social benefits to the first 6 months of employment;
           Providing subsidies to municipalities (and other stake-holders) for organizing "activation
           programs"; and
           Replacingthe old family benefits with a flat (not income related) benefit per each child coupled
           with tax bonuses for minor child.

      The labor market reform, designedto improve employment opportunities for disadvantage groups
      and the long-termunemployed via:

      o Individual and targeted work with the unemployed - i.e. in-depthinterview, individual action
           plan for job-seekers, testing and assessment o fpersonal characteristics, etc -;


                                                     - 3 1 -

     o Mandatory character o fthe ALMP programs andreimbursement o ftravel and child-care costs to
         job-seekers actively seelung employment and participating inALMP programs;
     o Subsidies to employers hiring disadvantages job-seekers and to job-seekers willing to start a
          business; and
     o Targeted interventions onregions with the highest incidence o funemployment.


0   EducationReform:

     o Responsibility for the financing o fprimary and secondary education moved to the sub-national
          level;
     o Per capita financing introduced inprimary and secondary education with the aim o f improving
          efficiency and transparency and granting schools greater autonomy;
     o Higher educationreform partially addressed through legalreformsbegrnningin2002; and
     o Outputbased financingmodelapplied to Higher EducationInstitutions.

ImprovementsinPublic Sector Management

Considerable progress i s being made to turn the budget process into an effective tool o f economic
management. This has now become a multi-year process, extending the planning o f spending units from
one to three years, and specifjmg revenues and expenditures o f all bodies o f the general government, and
all programs o f the central government.        The plan for 2006-07 is not binding, but allows only
extraordinary and well supported revisions. It also emphasizes the role o f program budgeting. To avoid
this becoming a mere technical exercise, it emphasizes and the need for the political leadership to make
strategic choices among competing goals. Assistance to support further improvements inbudgetary and
financial management o f Government operations is being provided by the Bank's Public Finance
Management Project.

OutstandingProblems

Trendsin Poverty and Inequality

Data on poverty and income distribution are poor, and generally not internationally comparable. Despite
recent contradictory findings, the general perception i s that poverty is relatively l o w and income relatively
equally distributed. There is some concern that the improvement ineconomic efficiency brought about by
recent reforms has been achieved at the expense o f the most vulnerable groups who have been left behind
byrecent economic growth andwhose access to social welfare, economic opportunities andbasic services
has been reduced by the recent reforms.       However, data limitations make it impossible to evaluate
whether this is indeed ajustified concern. Estimates o f the incidence o f poverty vary greatly. Recently,
EUROSTAT and the European Commission came up with two very different poverty rates (for the same
poverty line), - as low as 5 percent, which would make Slovakia the country with lowest relative poverty
in the EU, to 21 percent, which would give it the highest rate. Forthcoming Bank policy notes to be
prepared collaboratively with the MoLSAF and other Slovak experts and institutions, will analyze key
aspects of poverty and should throw light on these issues. This collaborative process will provide the
base on which to builda more permanent Slovak capacity to monitor changes inthe incidence of poverty,
analyze its causes, and feed these results back into policy-making.




                                                    - 32 -

Slow Growth in Employment

Concerns about equitable outcomes o f the reforms to date are reinforced by the finding that so far growth
inGDPdoesnot appearto havebeenfully reflected inmore favorable labor market outcomes. After four
years o f negative growth, employment increasedby only 1percent in2001 and even less inthe following
years with the increase concentrated inthe service sector and predominately for the older age group (55-
64). The level o f employmentby level of education shows a marked linkbetween educational attainment
and job opportunities. The employment rate for the low-skilled was as low as 15.8 percent in 2002,
which i s in strong contrast with the EU average of 49.3 percent and far lower than the same rate in the
other EU8 countries. By way of contrast, the employment rate for the highly skilled - 86.4 percent in
2002 - well exceeds the EUaverage o f 83 percent. Inaddition, the already large regional differences in
employment rates appear to have been increasing slightly over the highgrowth period with the Bratislava
region experiencing the largest increase (14.2 percent). At the same time, unemployment increased
slightlyin2001 to 19.2 percent, and has fallen only slightly since to 18.5 percent in2002, and 17percent
in2003 and 2004. Inaddition, the proportion of long-term unemployedhas increased steadily over the
years from 50.7 percent in 1998 to 55.7 percent in 2001 and 64.9 in 2003. Groups particularly hit by
unemployment include Roma, whose unemployment rate i s estimated by UNDP at 64 percent, school-
leavers, the disabled and people with small children. There has been a slight drop in the youth
unemployment rate, but it remains alarmingly high, at 37.3 percent in 2002, compared with an EU
averageof 15.1 percent.

Needfor further educationalreforms

The modernization o f the vocational education system and the strengthening o f linkages to the labor
market constitute part o f the unfinished agenda. Training policies are especially needed to focus on
improving the re-employment prospects of the disadvantaged groups. The completion of the reform of
highereducation is now apriority for government which plansto introduce further legislationlate in2004
or early in2005. The core objectives of the proposed policy are the following: (i)   to improve the quality
of higher education; (ii)to create a highquality and greatly expanded system o f higher education; (iii)to
improve efficiency by increasing spending on the under funded higher education system, ensuring the
efficient use o fresources and matching supply and demand for universityplaces while introducing market
forces and competition; (iv) to improve access by increasing institutional capacity, by providing a student
loan scheme with income contingent elements for covering fees thus making higher education free at the
point o f use, and by ensuring that social grants will provide assistance for students fi-om lower socio-
economic background; and (v) to improve quality, access and efficiency by makingthe existing systemo f
the so called "part time" education more transparent.

ImprovementsneededinPolicy andManagementCapacity

The main focus o f improvements inbudgetingand economic management has been, understandably, the
Ministry of Finance. But the ability of spending ministries to monitor progress of reforms and other
programs, diagnose obstacles to their progress, and analyze the implications of alternative public
expenditures and other policies on sectoral outcomes is critical to the success of this process. Increased
capacity within the Ministry o f Labor, Social Affairs and Family (MoLSAF) and the Ministry of
Education (MOE) would improve the systematic evaluation o f the potential impact of the labor market
and educational reforms on employment and access to education. Policy-malung would benefit from
improved coordination. Moreover, the absence o f reliable and nationally representative data on income
and other indicators o f poverty and vulnerability makes it impossible to analyze trends in poverty and
social exclusion, which hampersthe design of effective policies inthis area.




                                                  - 33 -

This will require relevant training in the field o f effective public policy-making for those presently
concerned with it and the creation o f permanent institutional capacity inthis area. What i s needed is not
only technical skills, though o f course these are critical. There is also a need for a new culture o f
evidence-based policy making which, coupled with a clear improvement in the quality of the data
available, will encourage: (i)policies o f open access to, and common sharing of, available data and
information; (ii)the establishment o f clear institutional links between users and producers o f data; and
(iii) increasedappreciationoftheimportanceofsettingtargetsandmonitoringdevelopmentsinpolicy
     an
malung.




                                                    - 34 -

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
           SLOVAKREPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Social Benefits Reform Administration Project (SBRA). The Project (US$40.27 million) began
implementationin2002 and with the main objective to improve the policy framework andmanagementof
the Slovak pension system. The SBRA i s administered through the MoLSAF.                Achievement of
development objectives (DO) i s satisfactory. Although the project had slow start (following along period
o f preparation), implementation got on track in late 2003 and the Project currently has a satisfactory
status. Capacity developed in MoLSAF in project management and implementation will be used for
procurement and financial managementofthe proposed HCTA project.

Public FinanceManagement Project. The Project (US$6.53 million) has been under implementation
since December 2003. It provides technical assistance to the Government to strengthen its capacity for
budgetary and financial management. Major benefits of the project include strengthening fiscal control
and ensuring that resources are allocated according to Government priorities.           Macro-economic
forecasting improved under the project would provide the basis for development of a more realistic multi-
year resource envelope, reducing the need for ad hoc adjustments to the budget and increasing the ability
o f line ministries to effectively plan within a more predictable resource allocation. The latest project
Development Objectives' rating is highly satisfactory and the Implementation Progress rating is
satisfactory. Becausethe Public Finance Project has an outreach o f 8,000 public servants inall ministries,
state organizations and municipalities in Slovakia, the lessons that are being learned as it begms to
implement, will be relevant andwill be appliedto the proposed HCTAproject.

Strengthening Government Capacity to Develop a Public InformationProgram. This Institutional
Development Fund (IDF)-supported Project (US$350,000) provides technical assistance and training to
the Government indeveloping and implementinga comprehensive communication strategy in support of
its 2004 through 2006 reform program. The Project includes two components. The first component will
support analytical work o f the Center of Information Strategies in the Office of the Government, and
targeted training for key communication staff engaged in the reform and media of strategic
communication. The second component will focus on assisting the Government in creating capacity to
carry out systemic proactive public information activities and the communication strategy. Six line
ministries, including the MoLSAF and MOE, have been selected to lead the process o f communication
withthe public.




                                                  - 35 -

                            Annex 3: Results FrameworkandMonitoring
           SLOVAK REPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                                             Results Framework

             PDO                          ProjectOutcomeIndicators                Use of Project Outcome
                                                                                         Information
To develop an effective         PermanentInstitutional capacity for evidence    Preparation and
policy infrastructure to        basedpolicy monitoring developed intwo          implementationo f strategic
design implement, manage        Ministries                                      policy documents.
and evaluate employment,                                                        Economic analysis o fkey
education and social cohesion                                                   reform options presented to
reforms inthe MoLSAF and                                                        policymakers,
intheMinistryo fEducation.                                                      parliamentarians andpublic.

   Intermediate Outcomes               IntermediateOutcome Indicators                Use of Intermediate
                                                                                     OutcomeMonitoring

Outcome 1:                      Outcome1:                                       Outcome1
Improvement inthe quality       Nationaland sub-national institutional          Strategies for staff
o fhumanresources available     arrangementsamong two Ministries, their         redeployment, new staff
for policy making intwo         associatedinstitutions and subordinate offices  recruitment and training o f
Ministries.                     assessedand strategic plans to buildcapacity at existing staffimplemented in
                                all levels developed.                           bothMinistries, their
                                                                                associatedinstitutions and sub-
                                                                                national offices.
Outcome2:                       Outcome2:                                       Outcome2:
(#) MoLSAF and MOECivil         % o ftargeted have attended "stages" inBank,    Newly trained and hiredstaff
Servantsat National and         OECD; reputable Academic Institutions.          are inpost and contributing to
Sub-National level, and #       %targeted have received other                   evidence basedpolicy
working inassociated            educatiodtraining.                              development inboth
institutes, receive appropriate % researchgrant calls released;                 Ministries.
training and development to     Training Networks ( international and national
enable them to monitor and      developed)
evaluate the impact o f         participants and supervisors evaluations
reforms                         indicate value o f courses
Outcome3:                       Outcome3:                                       Outcome3:                  ~




Nationally representative       Yr 1# monitorable indicators agreed inboth      Yr 1:Firstmonitoring reports
data on living standards and    Ministries and communicated to public;          prepared with feedback into
social exclusion available to   Yr 2 Evaluatepolicy documentation for quality   policies
policy makers and creation of   andrelevance                                    Yr 2: Sector PolicyPapersand
capacity to use available data  Yr 3 Availability ofnationally representative   improved national planning
to informpolicy making.         data on living standards and social inclusion.  documents producedon
                                Yr 3 User feedback                              regular basis
                                                                                Yr 3: Regular monitoring of
                                                                                policy outcomes to inform
                                                                                Government andpublic.




                                                       - 36 -

3

I




     co
     m
      I

                               Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
          SLOVAKREPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

Despite the rapid implementation of key reforms in the Slovak Republic in the course o f the last few
years, there i s still a lack of policy-making capacity.       In part the problem is one of institutional
coordination. There is also a shortageof public employees trained inthe field ofpolicy malung. Without
needed capabilities, skills and knowledge, there is a danger that important social reforms might be
reversed or distorted. The current civil service legislation offers the legalbasis to enhancethe capacity of
the civil service to implement and sustain various social reforms, but actual investment in human
resources and their management i s lacking. This Human Capital TA Project aims to assist the Borrower
in modernizing its systems of employment, education and social cohesion by developing an effective
policy infrastructure to implement, manage and evaluate employment, education and social cohesion
reforms inthe Ministry o f Labor, Social Affairs and Family (MoLSAF) and inthe Ministryof Education
(MOE).

Component1: CreationofA PolicyCapacityFramework(Euro 0.96 million)

The objective of this component i s to create a framework within which evidence-basedpolicymalungand
the design and implementation of components of reform inthe two Ministries and associatedinstitutions
canbe coordinated.

Sub-component 1.1: Inter-institutionalassessment (Euro0.30 million)

This sub-component will provide consultants' services to: (i)assess the current inter-institutional
arrangementsand information flows for social and educational policy making and implementationamong
the two participating Ministries and their associated institutions; and (ii)develop a consistent and
sustainable strategy to increase technical capacity for design, implementation and monitoring o f the
reforms, including recommendations for the MOE to support the implementation of the model quality
managementapproach (the CommonAssessment Framework2002).

The Project will finance a consultancy contract to analyze the current inter-institutional structures and
information flows and to develop recommendations to improve the sectoral policy-making environment.

Sub-component 1.2: Project Coordination and Sustainability (Euro0.66 million)

This sub-component will provide consultants' services to support: (i) creation of project coordination
                                                                          the
mechanisms and the necessary project implementation structure; and (ii)        strategies to mainstream and
ensurethe sustainability o freforms.

The Project will finance a consultancy contract to ensure the effectiveness of policy coordination and
dissemination mechanisms among participating Ministries, associated institutions and regonal level
administration offices. Linkages will be developed to ensure the cohesion and internal consistency of all
parts of the project between Ministries and in all associated institutions and offices, as well as a
continuous process of communication and coordination to mitigate the risk that the impact of social
reforms will be diluted.The Project SteeringCommittee will review all project activities and will include
similar policy activities, developed elsewhere, to ensure that a coherent policy framework i s developed.
All consultants working on Component 1, together with all other technical help, including procurement
and financial managementwill be administered through this sub-component.




                                                     - 39 -

Component 2: InvestmentinHumanResources(Euro3.40 million)

The objective o fthis component i s to achieve a significant improvement inthe quality o fhuman resources
available for policy making and implementation in the two participating Ministries and associated
institutions, through increasing the capacity o f existing staff, supplemented by strategic staff reallocation
and targeted recruitment, to analyze policy options and the impact o f ongoingreforms.

Sub-component2: 1: Improvement ofHumanResourceManagementSystems(Euro 0.90 million)

This sub-component will provide consultants' services to build institutional capacity through improving
the quality o fthe Human Resource Management systems inbothMoLSAF and MOE.

Status: Law no. 312/2001 on the Civil Service o fJuly 2, 2001 established the basic legal framework for
the creation o f a system o f HR management in the Slovak Civil Service through the Civil Service Office
(CSO).

Issues: An adequate supply o f well-qualified candidates for the Civil Service is dependant on the
competitiveness o f the state sector vis-&vis the private sector. This issue has been partially resolved by
abolishing the policy o f recognizing length o f service as the most important factor influencing the salary
o f State employees, (the "age automat).

The lack o f capacity inthe CSO which was unable to handle the selection process duringperiods o f rapid
change (such as happened in2002-2003, when the office was unable to carry out the selection process for
civil service centrally, and was forced to delegate it to the line ministries, with a perceived diminution of
quality).

The issue o f equal distribution o f workload among civil servants in line ministries i s becoming quite
urgent. Since the structure o f positions i s usually based on the `historical' work requirements, it is not
unusual that the current workload associated with some job positions, defined both by the time and skills
required, i s notreflected ineither compensation or hierarchicalstatus compared, with those requiring only
routine administrative tasks. Moreover, even when a performance-based model is in place, adequate
rewards are often not guaranteed.

Clearly defined needs assessments for civil servant positions would clarify workflow and improve both
the quality o f products and lighten the workload o f employees. Such assessments would also enable the
outsourcing of some tasks to subordinated organizations or independent think-tanks.

Slovaha is a new state with a relatively short history o f building administrative capacities. Inevitably,
changes in political leadership increase the risk of losing well trained and experienced government
employees with marketable skills unless measures are put in place to increase the attractiveness and
stability o f employment conditions within the Civil Service. One solution may be a system where both
career bureaucrats with considerable administrative experiences and institutional memory and policy
experts with specific sectoral knowledge can be appropriately valued and rewarded within the same
organizational structure.

The existing system o f performance evaluation focuses primarily on bureaucratic fundamentals (such as
knowledge o f regulations, service discipline, ethical codex etc.). This needs to be complemented by a
more sophisticated and more objective system o f assessing the performance of the employees.

Project Activities to be financed through this sub-component o f the project will assist both the MoLSAF
and the MOE, (both o f which deal with large numbers o f employees nationwide) to set standards and to



                                                     -40-

improve the efficiency o f HR management. Experience gained through the project in both Ministries
could also contribute to the philosophy o f HRmanagement inthe Slovak civil service as a whole.

The contracts for consultants' services financed through this sub-component will analyze the current HR
management situation in the MoLSAF and MOE and will identify specific strengths and weaknesses in
both Ministries. The work o f the consultants will focus on: (i)    the development o f training and staff
reallocationplans; proposals and detailed recommendations for the improvement of the HR management
systems inboth Ministries; (ii)  detailed proposals for the development and training of HR managers and
staff; (iii)ways to improve and utilize information systems; (iv) the development o f best practice models
and HRmanuals; (v) needs assessment and other approppriate training; (vi) the definition o fperfonnance-
based assessment criteria suitable for both Ministries); (vii) proposed detailed criteria for performance-
based evaluation o f employees; and (viii) proposals to mainstreampilots throughout the system at local as
well as at nationallevel.

Sub-component 2.2: StaffTrainingand Development(Euro 2.50 mln)

This sub-component will provide consultants' services to identify training and development needs and
opportunities and implement training plans that will:

     Create capacity through training, internships, scholarships, capacity building grants and research
     grants, to develop and strengthen skills and knowledge o f civil servants in the MoLSAF, MOE and
     other institutionsinvolved insocial and educational policy-making;
     Enhance policy capacity through training and exposure to other policy environments; including the
     buildingo f networks with bilateral and multilateral partners and the acquisition o f know-how from
     leading EU states through training and "stages" abroad, seminars and conferences, joint research
     projects, andpeer reviews; and
     Create instruments to attract new researchers and policy analysts to enter the field through
     scholarships, capacity buildinggrants and researchgrants.

Status: While the training o f state administration employees is the responsibility of the Civil Service
Office, line ministries are empowered to act autonomously to provide employee development and training
inline with sectoral requirements. Civil servant training is primarily focused ontraining for andpassing
qualification exams linked to post and career advancement as well as to training inforeign languages and
EUaffairs and ICT. While this training contributes to the growth and potential o f civil servants and to
improving the quality o f the work of the respective ministries, it does not contribute to the improvement
o f the public policy-malung process. Despitethe fact, that knowledge o f public policy making i s currently
an organic part o f a modem administration culture, there i s a lack of attention devoted to this type of
training inSlovak line ministries.

Issues: Generally speaking, neither the MoLSAF nor the MOE make sufficient use o f local higher
education institutions, science and research establishments and independent think-tanks for public policy
training. Similarly, there i s no practice of utilizing the experience of top institutions in other Central
European countries, or of organizing study visits, scholarships and internships to other countries or
institutions.

Inorder to enhance the analytic and conceptual potential ofmiddle management and to develop slulls in
public policy preparation, targeted training focused on the specific policy agenda and issues is required
 for the staff o fboth MoLSAF and MOEand associated institutions. However, the operation o fboth these
Ministries demonstrates that there is a lack of systematic investment inthe development o f specific expert
 slulls o f middle level management and policy employees, who make up the core o f the Departments and
Units at national and local level and carry the burden o f implementing and administering social and
 educational reforms.


                                                     -41 -

Along with building a permanent institutional capacity of capable and informed personnel at local and
national level inthe ministries and associatedinstitutions, it i s necessary to develop long term cooperation
with prominent local and international training institutions, which may serve as a training background to
the respective ministries.

The current administrative culture of the two Ministries does not foster a climate of discussion through
internal seminars, conferences, or peer reviews, nor a recognition that these are important instruments
which could significantly influence the process of institutional capacity building and the preparation of
sector policies and national action plans. Likewise, the creation o f partnerships and networks to promote
debate about important public policies i s not addressed, nor is the utilization of existingnational expertise
scatteredinNGOs and think thanks.

This sub component will identify and implement priority training and development activities for
individuals who will work on policy issues inthe participating Ministries and associated institutions. In
so far as possible, and in order to build capacity at local level, the activities to be financed in this sub-
component will be extended to Regional and Municipal Govemments as well as to the sub-national
offices of both Ministries. The technical assistance will be provided for identification o f training needs
and sources o f expertise, and the differing training needs and timetables in each o f the participating
Ministries will be taken into account.

Activities to be financed in this sub-component include: (i)        analysis of local and intemational higher
education specialized research and training institutions and think-tanks in order to source strategic
partners to provide know-how to enhancethe permanent institutional capacity o fthe respective ministries;
(ii)identification o f institutions with worlung places able to provide follow-up training (internships,
scholarships, capacity building grants, "stages");     (iii)
                                                           identification of policy employees ready and
suitable to acquire skills inthese working places; (iv) the identification of suitable topics and suggestions
for workshops; (v) development of training plans for policy employees suitable for the needs o f both
Ministries and other policy employees inthe social sphere; and (vi) development o f informal mechanisms
for policy discussion, making use o f expertise outside the relevant ministries.

Component3: BuildingandUpgradingInstitutionalCapacity (Euro 0.62 mln)

The objective of this component is to create and implement an integrated policy management system to
structure and guide the various steps in the policy cycle in both the participating Ministries and in the
network of associated institutions. The component will develop capacity to produce high quality policy
outputs in priority areas and will ensure the availability of improved statistical and monitoring
information for policy makers inthe field o f employment, education and social cohesion.

Sub-component 3.1: PolicyFormulation(Euro 0.25 mln)

This component will provide training and consultants' services to develop effective mechanisms to
improve policy malung, includingthe development o f important national social and educational action
plans and reports.

Issues: As a part of Slovakia's membership in the EU, many national policy documents and reports are
being produced and will continue to be produced annually or at regular intervals. Currently, the quality of
key policy documents is highlyvariable. Many o f these tend to be imprecise in specifying the objectives
of proposed reforms, poor at identifyingthe instruments required to implement them, weak at assessing
costs, and failing to propose how results can be monitored and evaluated.

There are only a small number of civil servants in the MoLSAF and MOE who possess the required
analytical skills to draft social and educational policy documents to the requiredlevel. The preparation of
important official policy documents is often assignedto employees inthe subject department regardlessto

                                                     - 42 -

their ability to think in a conceptual and analytical way. The early stages o f policy formulation tend to
take place in isolation or at least without informal give-and-take by staff from all relevant ministries.
Later consultations with other units of government tend to concentrate on technical or wording questions
rather than on key issues of substance. Outside expertise inthink-tanks and elsewhere i s not drawn into
the discussion.

The Project will finance services of consultants who, in cooperation with each Ministry,will: (i)      analyze
existing procedures for the preparation o f policy papers in MoLSAF and MOE; (ii)          prepare manuals to
improve the quality of the drafting process for policy papers and provide training to policy employees;
(iii) andrevisethedocumentation,basedonclientfeedback;and(iii) recommendationsto
     refine                                                                         make
optimize existingprocedures for draftingpolicy papers.

Sub-Component 3.2: Improve InformationBase for Social Policy Formulation, Monitoringand
Evaluation(Euro0.37 mln)

The objective o f this sub-component is to improve the quality and quantity o f internationally comparable
data available to policy makers in both MoLSAF and MOE, and to develop social policy monitoring
indicators.

Issues: Evidence-basedpolicy making is in short supply in Slovalua. This reflects the combination of:
(i) accesstopoorqualitydatabytheresearchcommunity; (ii) oftrainedspecialistsableto
   limited                                                                  lack
collect, select, disseminate, monitor and evaluate relevant information; and (iii)     a poorly developed and
under-funded research infrastructure, both in Institutes of Higher Education and Research Institutes, and
poor libraries and other documentation services.

A key issue is accessibility and compatibility of statistical data. Although the Slovak Republic is inthe
process of harmonizing its data collection to EUregulations, the quality of the data remains poor and the
coverage of the most vulnerable groups in society is limited. The absence of reliable and nationally
representative data on trends in income and other indicators of poverty and social exclusion has a
potentially negative impact on the capacity to design effective social policies, which has already been
visible in developing specific key documents, e.g. National Action Plans o f Employment or Social
Inclusion.

Inorder to increasethe efficiency ofthe current policy managementsystem, it isnecessaryto raise the
quality o f information management relevant to policy making in education and social sectors and to
improve the capacity to estimate and audit the development outcomes and the fiscal impact o f educational
and social policies. This should begin with a review of existing state of libraries and documentation
centres, and a review o f the nature and availability o f relevant statistical data, leading to a proposed plan
to improve the timely supply o f the data and other information for needed for the formulation, budgeting
monitoring and evaluation of social and education sectors policies.

The Project will finance goods and consultants' services to: (i)  suggest the necessarysteps to improve the
quality of the available databy increasing the coverage of the vulnerable groups and broadenthe coverage
of non-income dimensions o f poverty; (ii)       revise and extend the list of indicators and benchmarks
designed for evidence-based policy-making and monitoring and evaluation inthe social and educational
sectors.; (iii)analyze existing statistical data and make recommendations about what specific data should
be provided for policy makers inthe social and educational sectors; (iv) recommendappropriate relevant
sources for social and education sector policy makers, includingbooks, periodicals, databases and digital
sources, indicating their costs; (v) recommend cost-effective improvements to the information-
documentation centres for policy malung inbothrespective ministries; (vi) identifydata training needs of
relevant employees and source appropriate training; and (vii) implementation of the recommendations
identified inthe aforementionedreviews.


                                                     -43 -

                                       Annex 5: ProjectCosts
         SLOVAK REPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE


Proiect Cost By Component and/or Activity                  Local      Foreign-      Total
                                                         r! . '17
                                                         cur0million Euro milion Euro million
Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework                     0.55        0.40        0.95
Investment inHumanResources                                 1.20        2.00        3.20
BuildingandUpgradingInstitutional Capacity                  0.30        0.30        0.60




Total Baseline Cost                                         2.05        2.70        4.75
 PhysicalContingencies                                      0.06        0.03        0.09
 Price Contingencies                                        0.05        0.08        0.13
                                    Total Project Costs'    2.16        2.81        4.97
                              Interest duringconstruction
                                           Front-end Fee                0.03        0.03
                              Total Financing Required      2.16        2.84        5.00




                                                 - 44 -

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
           SLOVAKREPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

The project will be implemented over a three-year period bytwo agencies: the MoLSAF and the MOE. A
Project Director for HCTA will be appointed in the MoLSAF to oversee technically the respective
activities related to the MoLSAF, as well as to ensure overall coordination of project implementation. In
addition, the MOE will also appoint a Project Coordinator, who will provide technical oversight of the
MOErelatedactivities. The Project Director and the Project Coordinator will work closely with the State
Secretary of the MoLSAF and Head of Administration of the MOE to ensure proper implementation of
project activities in terms of substance. To provide policy guidance and direction for the project as a
whole, a Steering Committee, comprisingrepresentatives from MoLSAF and MOE will be established.

The Project Director for HCTA will have dual responsibilities. In his capacity as a coordinator of the
MoLSAF part o f the project, he/she will be responsible for: (i)   overall coordinationo f all technical tasks
related to MoLSAF part of the project; (ii)coordination o f inputs required for procurement and
disbursement activities such as TORs, qualification requirements for the consultants, specifications,
description o f scope of services, and etc.; and (iii)  liaison between the Bank and the MoLSAF, other
associated institutions subordinated to the MoLSAF. Inhis capacity as a Director of a joint (MoLSAF
and MOE) project, he will be a main communication channel with the Bank, coordinate preparation of
requiredjoint project reports and overallproject coordination.

The Project Coordinator for the MOEpart of the project will provide technical oversight and coordination
of its respective activities, andprovision o ftechnical input (for example the TORs) for plannedconsulting
and training assignments as well as updates o f the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) to the Project
Director. To ensure coordination of the project activities, the Project Director for HCTA and Project
Coordinatorinthe MOE will meet on a regular basis.

The Project Director for HCTA will report directly to the State Secretary in the MoLSAF. The Project
Coordinator will report directly to the Heado f Administration inthe MOE. The ImplementingMinistries
have advised the Bank that the fiduciary functions would be assigned by the internal order of the
MoLSAF to the PCU for the Social Benefits Reform Administration (SBRA) Project, which is integrated
in the MoLSAF and has solid experience in the Bank's projects implementation.              The current PCU
structure is as follows: two staff (director and one o f the procurement specialists) are consultants, while
two other staff are employees o f the Social Insurance Agency (another implementing agency o f the
SBRA) and are civil servants. The PCUDirector reports directly to the Minister o f MoLSAF. A chart on
the proposed arrangementof fiduciary functions i s attachedbelow.




                                                    -45 -

                                CHART 1: IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE




                       I  '.              SteeringCommittee
                                          SteeringCommittee
                              -.-.                                                                                                                J




Noteson chart                          .....................................................................................................................................


    Project Director for HCTA provides required inputs to the PCU to start procurement process (for example, the
    TORS, candidates for the short lists for consulting assignment, inputs to the RFP indicating qualification
    requirementsand requiredexpertise profile, etc) ;
    Composition o f the Evaluation Committee is decided by State Secretary (MOLSAF) and Head of
    Administration (MOE) for each procurement case. The Evaluation Committee will include at least 5 members
    with an exception o f the contracts below Euro 200,000 where option o f 3 members can apply.
    SBRA PCU's fiduciary staff (financial management and procurement specialist) reporting to SBRA PCU
    Director
    Steering Committee includes representatives o f MOLSAF (State Secretary), MOE (Head o f Administration),
    MOF, and other associatedinstitutions
    Procurement specialist(s) provide assistance to Evaluation Committee (for example, brief the members on the
    procedures, prepare an evaluation report, etc)
    Project Director for HCTA reportingto the State Secretary
    Evaluation Committee makes a decision on the contracts award and informs Project Director for HCTA who
    thenproceedto thenext step (either requestthe Banka no objection ifthis is requiredbythe legal agreement, or
    proceedswith the contract signing)

Agreement between the Borrower and ImplementingAgencies. The Borrower is the Slovak Republic
represented by its Ministry of Finance (MOF). The M o L S A F and the MOE will be the implementing
agencies for the Project. Each Ministry will budget the funds for implementation of the project in their
respective budgets approved by the MOF starting from 2005.

                                                                                       - 46 -

               Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
            SLOVAK REPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

1.       Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

CountryIssues

Slovakia is a member o f the OECD, and will be facing important fiscal challenges following its
membership with the European Union in May 2004. The Government's success in designing and
implementing a comprehensive reform program will depend fundamentally on its capacity to strengthen
the institutional framework in which those policies are conceived, decided upon, and executed. Within
this institutional framework public financemanagementstructures willbekeyones.

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment for Slovakia, published in August 2000, concluded
that, "budget control i s strong in the current NBS dominated system." The Govemment has begun an
ambitious program of public finance reforms consisting o f abolishing extra-budgetary funds, adopting
new audit legislation, the introduction of a medium-term fiscal outlook, a major overhaul o f budgetary
legislation, elaborating and implementing ESA95 and GFS2001 methodologies for reporting on public
finance, improving control o f the deficits o f local Governments and public funds, initiating fiscal
decentralization, adopting a pilot scheme for program budgeting, and creating a legal framework for a
State Treasury and a Debt and Liquidity Management Agency (DLMA). Many of these reforms are now
reflected inSlovakia's legislation and are being operationalized with the support of the donor community
and specifically through the Public FinancemanagementProject (2003).

FinancialRiskAnalysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed Project i s considered a low risk project. A
summary o f the consolidatedriskassessment for the project i s as follows:

  Risk                                         Rating                        Comments


                                         I
   1. Country FinancialManagement Risk   '    Moderate
  2, Project FinancialManagement Issues        Low
                     OverallInherent Risk     Moderate
                                             ~




   1. ImplementingEntity                      Moderate  Institutional arrangements for fiduciary
                                                        arrangements are sub-contracted to SBRA PCU
   2. FundsFlow                                Low      Funds will be reimbursed against acceptable

   3. Staffing                                 Low     IUsing existing MoLSAFIIMOEISBRA PCU
                                                        accounting staff
  4. Accounting Policies andProcedures         Low      Using existing MoLSAFIMOEISBRA PCU systems
                                                        andprocedures
   5. Extemal Audit                            Low
   6. Reporting andMonitoring                 Moderate
   7. Information Systems                      Low     IUsingexisting MoLSAF IMOElsystems andExcel
                                                        system for reporting
              OVERALL CONTROLRISK              Low




                                                    -47-

StrengthsandWeaknesses

The strength o f the FM systemlies in the use o f existingMoLSAF and MOE systems (including treasury
system) with robust internal control mechanisms to process payments and record transactions. The
potentialweakness is that the Ministryo fFinance i s requiredto processpayments onbehalfo fthe Project
without having a full understanding o f the project. This may slow down processing the contracts and
payments.

ImplementationArrangements

ImplementationArrangements are described indetail inAnnex 6 above.

FundsFlow

The Bank would make funds available to the Government o f Slovakia under the Loan Agreement which
governs the terms and conditions of the loan and specifying the project. The Project will not maintain a
foreign currency Special Account; all disbursements o f loan funds will be made to the MOF to reimburse
it for eligible expenditures alreadypaidfor.

Ifnecessary, counterpart fundswillnotbepaidinto aseparatebankaccountbutwillbe accessedthrough
the state budget system.

Staffingofthe AccountinglFinanceFunction

Accounting will be performedby the Financial Department o f the MoLSAF and MOE respectively, and
reporting would be done by SBRA PCU. Senior staffwithin the departmentshave many years ofrelevant
experience and the fiduciary staff in the PCU have experience with the Bank-financed projects. As the
project accounting cycle will follow the standard MoLSAF/MOE/MOF cycle, there i s no needto provide
"Bank specific" training to the staffofthe Financial Departments.

AccountingPolicies andProcedures

The MOF, MOE and MoLSAF use a modified cash accounting policy (commitment accounting).
However, as disbursement will be strictly on a reimbursement basis, the Projectwill report to the Bank on
a cash basis. Various departments/sections o f the MoLSAF and the SBRA PCU that will be involved in
receiving funds under the Project for processing payments and for recording the underlyingtransactions
have written guidelines and procedures to safeguard assets and to ensure the accuracy o f financial
reporting. Similar guidelines will be provided to the MOE. The PCU will prepare consolidated financial
monitoring reports for payments madeby MoLSAF and MOE. Specific guidelines for the HCTA project
have been includedinthe updated andrevised financial managementmanual.

TORS for the audit of the Project financial statements (including an opinion on SOE operations) have
been prepared and will be merged with the TORSfor the audit for the SBRA project which is currently at
the same preparation stage of selecting the auditor. There will be one contract for the audit o f both
projects covering 3 years period.




                                                   - 4 8 -

ReportingandMonitoring

Ithasbeenagreedthat the Projectwillprepare financialmonitoringreports (FMRs) ona semi-annual (six
month) basis. The FMRsinclude:


0   Project sources and uses of funds
0   Uses o f funds byproject activity
0   Cost sharing between the implementingagencies report

0   Project progress report

The first FMR will be furnishedto the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar half-
year after the Effective Date, and will cover the period from the Effective Date to the end o f the first
calendar half-year. Draft FMR formats have beenprepared and will be confirmedduringnegotiations.

InformationSystems

The Project will utilise the accounting systems o f the MoLSAF and MOE for its accounting. The systems
have sufficient flexibility to permit the establishment o f separate analytical codes within the main
accounts, to track and report uponthe use o fproject funds.

Project FMRs will not be generated automatically from the MoLSAF's and MOE's systems but will be
compiled manually using Excel spreadsheets. Transaction statements from the accounting system will be
retained with the FMRsto provide an audit trail to the underlying documentation.

ImpactofProcurementArrangements

The Bank's Procurement Specialist has carried out an assessment o f the SBRA PCU procurement
capacity and found it acceptable.

ActionPlan

None

SupervisionPlan
The progress reports will be the basis for monitoring project implementation indetail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the Belgrade-based FMS and the results or
identifiedissues will be followed up duringregular supervision missions. Audited financial statements o f
the project will be reviewed and issues identified and followed up.

2.      Audit Arrangements

Internalaudit

The MoLSAF i s subject to internal audit inspections (MOF or MoLSAF). However, given the lack o f
resources in the internal audit department, no reliance will be placed uponthe work o f the internal audit
department.

Externalaudit

The PCU Director will be responsible for ensuring that project financial statements are audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable


                                                     -49-

to the Bank. It has been agreed during negotiations that auditing standards acceptable to the Bank are
International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the InternationalFederation o f Accountants (IFAC).
Itwill be agreed duringnegotiations that auditors acceptableto the Bank are those auditors that havebeen
pre-qualified to audit Bank funded operations inSlovakia, as well as Slovakia Supreme Audit Office (the
NKU). The cost ofthe audit willbefinanced fromtheproceedsofthe loan.


The following table identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by the project
implementationagency together with the due date for submission.

I AuditReport      I                                       Due Date
 Entity             NIA
 Project            Withinfive months ofthe endofeachfiscal year andalso at the.closingofthe project
  SOE               Withinfive months ofthe endofeachfiscal vear and also at the closing ofthe uroiect

3.        DisbursementArrangements

It is expected that the proceedsofthe Loanwill be disbursedover aperiod ofthree years plussix months
for the completion of accounts and the submission of withdrawal applications. The Slovak Government
decided not to request a Project Preparation Facility from the Bank. The loan will provide for retroactive
financing inorder to get necessaryproject activities started as expeditiously aspossible.

The Slovak Budget Law requires that all income and expenditures of the State pass through the Single
Treasury Account. This precludes the establishment of a separateSpecial Account for the Project and the
payments to the consultants and suppliers directly from the Loan Account. Disbursements from the Bank
loan will, therefore, be limited to reimbursements on the basis of full documentation and reimbursement
 against Statementsof Expenditures (SOE).


 Some of the proceeds of the Loan are expected to be disbursed on the basis o f Statements of Expenditures
 (SOEs) for expenditures for: (i) contracts costing less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract;
                                      goods
 (ii)servicesofindividualconsultants costinglessthanEuro50,000 equivalent percontract; (iii)           for
 services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract; and
 (iv) all trainings and workshops, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to
 the Borrower. Disbursements against such services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
 documentation and respective procurement guidelines. Related documentation in support o f SOEs will
 not be submitted to the Bank butretained by the ProjectMoLSAF for at least one year after receipt by the
 Bank of the audit report for the year inwhich the last withdrawal i s made from the Loan Account. This
 documentation will be made available for review bythe auditors and supervision missions.

 The allocation of loanproceedsfor the Project i s the following:

    Category                                 Amount allocated (in EUR)   % of expendituresto befinanced
    (1)Goods                                          250,000                        100%
    (2) Consultant's services, training and         4,700,000                        100%
    workshops
    (3) OperatingCosts                                 25,000                        100%




                                                    - 50 -

                                 Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
             SLOVAK REPUBLIC HUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTNCE

A.      General

Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories
are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include: limited IT equipment and of-
the-shelf software for HR management information system under Component 2; books, printed and
digital materials if decided by the implementing agencies based on the recommendations of the needs
assessment and HR planning advisory assignments. Since there are a very limited number o f Goods
contracts to be financed from the loan, it is anticipated that only International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures and Shopping procedures (for off-the-shelf goods estimated to cost less than Euro
60,000 equivalent per contract) will be used. Detailedprocurement plan prepared for the first 18 months
o f project implementation does not foresee any Direct Contracting (DC). However, Direct Contracting
may be used in justified cases for procurement o f proprietary goods items (for example, software or
training materials and publications) subject to prior approval o f an updated procurement plan which
includes such method for identifiedGoods contracts by the IBRD.

Selection of Consultants: technical assistance to MoLSAF and MOE includes creation o f policy
framework, improvement in HR resources management, development o f staff training and professional
development plans and other advisory services under all three components of the project. Short lists o f
consultants for services estimated to cost less than Euro200, 000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines. The following procurement methods would be followed:

         Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for technical assistance
         packages as listed inthe procurement plan;
         Quality Based Selection (QBS) procedures may be used for technical assistance assignments
         identified at a later stage o f the project implementation for which it i s difficult to define precise
         TOR and the required input from the consultants, and for which the Borrower expects the
         consultants to demonstrate innovationin their proposals;
         Selection under Fixed Budget (FBS) procedures may be used for precisely defined assignments
         with the limited budget (for example, ifat the mid term review o f the project a decision is made
         to add a public information campaign package);
         Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures would be used for contracting financial audit services;
         Selection Based on the Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) procedures would be used for
         contracting o f consulting services for relatively small value simple assignments below
         Euro100,000
         Single Source contracting (of consulting firms) and Sole Source contracting (of individual
         consultants) may be used injustified cases as per provisions of paragraphs 3.9-3.10 and 5.4 o f



                                                      - 5 1 -

        the Guidelines for Selection o f Consultants subject to prior agreement with IBRDand approval of
        an updatedprocurement plan which includes such contracts.

Operating Costs: Minor operating costs required to administer project implementation would be
procured usingthe implementing agency's administrative procedures.

Others: the Project will finance training of large number of civil servants and government officials in
Slovaha and other countries. Training will be done in form of workshops, study tours, scholarships,
grants. Procedures (for award of grants and scholarships) will be developed under HR and Training
Needs Assessment (procurement package B.2.1 in the Procurement Plan) and outlined in the Training
Manual prepared by the consultant and approved by the Bank prior to any grant and scholarshps awards
are made. Expenditures for the study tours and workshops not included in consultant's contracts will be
disbursedagainst SOE.

B.      Assessmentofthe agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the MoLSAF through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
established for on-going Social Benefits Reform Administration Project implemented within the same
ministry. The PCU is staffed by one procurement specialist and one procurement consultant
(procurement manager), bothtrained and experiencedinthe Bank's procurement procedures.

Capacity of the PCUMoLSAF, including organizational structure for project implementation, interaction
between the project's staff responsible for procurement and the Ministry's central units involved in
administration and finance o f the project has been assessed by the Bank procurement specialist during
appraisal and was found acceptable.

The key issues and risks conceming procurement for implementation o f the project have been identified
and includepotential delays at contracts administration stage causedby arather large number of steps that
need to be taken to process payments under signed contracts. Since project funds are allocated in the
budgets ofrespective ministries, no budget transfers from the MOEto the MoLSAF are possible to make
the payments from one source/account. Since the PCU of the MoLSAF does not have any status in the
MOE, the PCU staff has no authority to processpayments from the MOEbudget. The arrangements will
be for the PCU to prepare all requiredpayment orderddocuments based on submitted invoices approved
by Project DirectorElCTA and pass them back to the Project Director/HCTA. He/she, inturn, will pass
the payment documents to the Project Coordinator at the MOE who is thenresponsible for submittingthe
documents to the accounting unit of the MOE for payment. The whole process can take as long as 45-60
days. The mitigation measures which have been agreed are as following: the MOE was provided with
sample internal instructions issued by the MoLSAF for the SBRA Project (these instructions will now be
amended to include the HCTA as well).         The MOE will prepare and issue similar instructions for
respective units of the Ministry to provide clear guidance and standards regarding processing the
payments within the MOE. The Bank and both implementing agencies will review the payment
arrangements after the first invoices are processedto draw the lessonslearnt and identify opportunities for
simplificationto avoid delays makingpayments to the consultants and suppliers.

The overall project risk for procurement i s Low.

C.      ProcurementPlan

A draft procurement plan hasbeenprepared duringappraisal. Procurement planprovidesthe basis for the
procurement methods and identifies the contracts subject to prior review by the Bank. This plan was
agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team at negotiations (November 26, 2004) and will be
available at the PCU of the MoLSAF (also responsible for preparing the updates). It will also be

                                                   - 52 -

available in the project's database and in the Bank's extemal website. The Procurement Plan will be
updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneeds and improvements infiduciary capacity o fthe PCU.

D.      Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Inadditionto the priorreview, annualprocurement supervision missions to visit the fieldto carry out post
review o fprocurement actions are recommended.

E.      Details of the ProcurementArrangements InvolvingInternational Competition


1.   Goods, Works, and Non ConsultingServices


        (a)     List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting: There i s
                one ICB package for procurement o f limited IT equipment and off-the-shelf software for
                HRManagement systems. There are no direct contracts planned for Goods procurement
                at this stage. There are noWorks procurement inthis Project; and
        (b)     any ICB contracts estimated to cost above Euro 200,000 per contract and all direct
                contracting which might be included in future updates o f procurement plan, will be
                subject to priorreview by the Bank.

2.      Consulting Services

        (a)     L i s t of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms i s included in the
                Procurement Plan: all consulting packages estimated to cost above Euro 200,000 will be
                open to an intemational competition. It i s envisioned that local consulting firms would
                participate in a consortium with international ones as the current practice in Slovalua
                shows;
        (b)     Consultancy services contracts subject to prior review by the Bank are identified in the
                Procurement Plan; and
        (c)     Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for
                services estimated to cost less than Euro 200,000 equivalent per contract may be
                composed entirely of national consultants inaccordance with the provisions of paragraph
                2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                   - 53 -

eil




CI
n


              Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
     SLOVAK REPUBLIC HUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

N.A.




                              - 5 6 -

                 Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
     SLOVAK REPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

N.A.




                              - 57 -

                       Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
          SLOVAKREPUBLIC HUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                                                    Planned                 Actual
PCNreview                                      October 13,2004         October 13,2004
Initial PID to PIC
Initial ISDS to PIC
Appraisal                                     November22 2004         November22-23,2004
Negotiations                                November2526,2004         November 25-26,2004
Board/RVP approval                              January 18,2005
Planneddate ofeffectiveness                       April 2005
Planneddate of mid-termreview
Plannedclosing date                                                      June 30,2008

Keyinstitutionsresponsiblefor preparationofthe project:

MinistryofLabor, SocialAffairs andFamily
Ministryof Education

Bankstaffand consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                              Title                       Unit
Mary Canning                Lead EducationSpecialistandTask TeamLeader      ECSHD
PierellaPaci                                 Lead Economist                  PREM
Yelena Fadeyeva                            OperationsOfficer                ECSHD
PetraVehovska                              OperationsAnalyst                ECCU7
MariaVannari                           Senior ProcurementSpecialist         ECSPS
Siew ChaiTing                     LeadFinancialManagementSpecialist         ECSPS
Hans Jurgen Gmss                              Chief Counsel                 LEGEC
ClaudiaPardinas-Ocana                         Senior Counsel                LEGEC
JosephFormoso                             SeniorFinance Officer             LOAGl
MukeshChawla                          Peer Reviewer, LeadEconomist          ECSHD
Dena Ringold                         Peer Reviewer, Senior Economist        ECSHD
Anna Goodman                                PromamAssistant                 ECSHD

Bankfunds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:

     4. Bankresources:       US$75,727.75
     5. Trust funds:                - 0 -
     6. Total:               US$75,727.75

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:

     3. Remainingcoststo approval:            US$19,000
     4. Estimatedannual supervision cost:     US$50,000




                                               - 58 -

                       Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
      SLOVAK REPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

1.  Project Concept Note
2.  Project InformationDocument
3.  Information SafeguardData Sheet




                                      - 59 -

                                        Annex 13: StatementofLoansandCredits
                   SLOVAKREPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                                                                                                                         Differencebetween
                                                                                                                         expectedand actual
                                                                Original Amount inUS$Millions                              disbursements

ProjectID   FY     Purpose                                  IBRD         IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.      Fm. Rev'd

PO65954     2004   HEALTH REFORM                              62.92       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     47.56      -0.13        0.00

PO82879     2004   HEALTH TA                                  12.38       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     11.88       2.91        0.00

PO69864     2003   PUB FINMGMT                                 5.45       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     5.56        1.84        0.00

PO38090     2002   SOC BEN REFADM                             23.54       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     30.51      17.54        2.00

                                                     Total: 104.29        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     95.51      22.16        2.00




                                                        SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                                Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                       IFC

        FY Approval   Company                      Loan      Equity       Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi      Partic.
       ~


        2004          RI                           0.00        60.51       0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00         0.00

        2004          RaiffeisenZe...              0.00        60.51       0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00         0.00

                                 Total portfolio:   0.00     121.02         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00




                                                                              ApprovalsPendingCommitment

                       FY Approval    Company                             Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                            Total pendingcommitment:      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00




                                                                    - 60 -

                                                Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                SLOVAKREPUBLICHUMANCAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE


                                                               Europe 8   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Slovak   Central  middle-
                                                      Republic    Asia   income         Development diamond'
2003
Population,mid-par (millions)                              5.4      473      335                     Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita(Atlas method, US$)                          4,900     2,570    5,340
GNI(Atlas method, US$billions)                            26.4      12R     1788                            -
Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population (%)                                             0.0       0.0       1.2
Laborforce (%)                                             0.5       0.2       10       GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                        per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                                                        primary
                                                                                        capita                            enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalPOvertyline)
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                       58        63       76
Lifeexpectancyatbirth (years)                               73        69       73                           I
Infant mortaiity(per Z000live births)                        6        31       Q
Childmalnutrition (%ofchildrenunder5)                                                          Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)           a0         91       89
Uliteracy(%ofpopulafion age a+)                                        3        9
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)        K13       a 3      K14          -Slovak        Republic
  Male                                                     a 3       a 4      a 4          _ _    Upper-middle-incomegroup
  Female                                                   a 3       a 2      a 4

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                               1983      1993     2002     2003
                                                                                         Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                  ..     8.4      24.2     32.5
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                       _ _   24.7      29.3     25.3                         Trade
Exports of goods andservices/GDP                    ..    56.7       710     70.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          ..    20.3      22.2     23.8
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                           ..    20.0       211     24.2

Currentaccount balance/GDP                          ..     -4.5      -8.0     -0.9
Interestpaynents/GDP                                         11       3.8      2.6
Total debUGDP                                       ..    25.4      53.8     56.3
Total debt service/exports                          ..      8.5      19.3     15.6
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                             53.9
Presentvalueof debUexports                                          74.4                               Indebtedness
                                                                                       ~




                                     1983-93 1993-03     2002      2003 2003-07
(averageannualgroMh)
GDP                                      -19      4.0       4.4       4.2      4.1          -Slo       vak Republic

GDP percapita                            -2.2     3.9       4.4       4.2      3.8      -          Upper-middleincome group
                                                                                              ~



r . . , . ,


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                               lgE31993            2002    2003        1 Growth of investment and GDP         ( O h )
(%ofGDP)                                                                                                                             1
Agriculture                                         ..      5.7       4.1      3.7       30;

hdustry                                             ..     33.1     20.6     29.7
 Manufacturing                                      ..     8.6       20.1     8.5
Services                                            ..     611      67.4     66.6

Private consumption                                       549       569      553        -301
Generalgovernmentconsumption                              24 8      209      209
Imports of goods and services                              610      789      795                    -GDI           -GDP
                                                                                                                                  I



                                             1983-93 1993-03       2o02                  Growth o f exports and imports (%)
(averageannualgroMh)
Agriculture                                                 2 6      -16       4 4-     30-
lndustty                                                    2 0       0 7      9 2
  Manufacturing                                             5 5      -12       6 6
Services                                                    5 2       6 6      2 0      'O

Private consumption                                         4.1       5.2     -0.3                                        ii

Generalgovernmentconsumption                                2.9       4.7      3.2                                         02     03

Gross domestic investment                                                             i          -Exports
Importsof goods and services                      9.6       9.3
                                                            5.1       2.2
                                                                      5.2     -9.7
                                                                              8.0                                 -1rrports
                                                                                                                                    I




                                                                     -61  -

                                                                                                Slovak Republic

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
                                                                                                                     I
                                        1983  1993    2002    2003       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                              15  T

Consumerprices                                 23.2     3.3      8.5                                             4
ImplicitGDP deflator                           28.5     4.0      4.7
                                                                     _"
Government finance
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                 39.8    35.6     37.4                   99       M)    01    02
Currentbudget balance                           -11     -10     -0.4
Overallsurplus/deficit                         -6.3     n.0     -2.5             -GDPdefla!or         -CPI


TRADE
                                        1983  1993    2002    2003     ,  Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports(fob)                            5,447   ~1,382  2$838     25 000 -
 n.a.                                                                          -
 n.a.                                                                   20 000

 Manufactures                                 4554    P,5&1    s,5n      15,000
Total imports (cif)                           6.379   6,499   22,479     10000
 Food                                          556      850     987
 Fueland energy                                1324    2,211   2,705     5,000

 Capitalgoods                                                          II    O

Export priceindex(895=x)O)                       83     133       129            97  98     99    00   01   02     03

Importpriceindex(s95=*0)                         83     YIO       8 5                 IExports         3 Inports
Terms of trade(S95=x)O)                         n0       95       95


BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                        1983  1993    2002     2003       Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsof goods and services                  7.398    V.51    25,18
Imports of goods andservices                   8,061  B.827   25,524
Resource balance                               -663   -1676     -407

Net income                                      -38    -456     -PO
Net currenttransfers                             $30     8 3     249

Current account balance                         -601  -1,939    -277

Financingitems (net)                            580    5 . m    $736
Changes innetreserves                             21  -3236    4459

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ mi//ions)            450    9,091   12,126
Conversion rate(DEC,locaVUS$)                   30.8    45.3    36.8


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1983  1993    2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                             :omposition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.
Total debt outstandingand disbursed       399 3,393    U,OU    8.322
  IBRD                                           rjl    204       I79                        A: T79

  IDA                                             0        0        0                              D: 1069

Total debt service                         43   646    3977     4 . m
  iBRD                                            9       31       55
  IDA                                             0        0        0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                529      a 7
  Officialcreditors                        -1   333        0      -P1
  Privatecreditors                          5   364    1447    -3,062
  Foreigndirectinvestment                        166   4,007
  Portfolio equity                             -263     552

World Bank program
  Commitments                                     55      24        0      i- l8RD                       E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                                  40        0        0      I-IDA    D-otkrmltiUerd       F-Private
  Principalrepayments                              0      22       40      :-IMF                         G-Short-ten




                                                         - 62 -

