                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001229



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72710)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 5 MILLION
                        (US$ 6.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                          TO THE SLOVAK REPUBLIC

                                      FOR A

            HUMAN CAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT



                                 December 1 , 2009




Human Development Sector Unit
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries (ECCU5)
Europe and Central Asia Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective August 2009)

                         Currency Unit = EURO
                             1.00 = US$ .70
                          US$ 1.00 = 1.4257

                             FISCAL YEAR

                         January 1 ­December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable Program Loan
CAF      Common Assessment Framework
EIPA     European Institute of Public Administration
EU       European Union
HCTA     Slovakia Human Technical Assistance Project
HR       Human Resources
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOLSAF   Ministry of Labor
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
SIDEM    Social and Institutional Development and Economic Management
         Technical Assistance Program
TORs     Terms of Reference



                      Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                    Country Director: Theodore Ahlers (Acting)
                     Sector Manager: Mamta Murthi
                 Project Team Leader: Alberto Rodriguez
                    ICR Team Leader: Katherine H. Hovde
                                    SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                            Human Capital Technical Assistance Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 38
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 39
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
  Annex 7. Borrower's ICR.............................................................................................. 42
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 108
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 109
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Human Capital
Country:                Slovak Republic          Project Name:             Technical Assistance
                                                                           (SIDEM APL #1)
Project ID:             P092786                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72710
ICR Date:               12/15/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                      Borrower:                 THE SLOVAK
                                                                           REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 6.5M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 5.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.2M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/13/2004     Effectiveness:            04/13/2005         04/13/2005
Appraisal:             11/22/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/25/2005     Mid-term Review:          10/20/2008         10/09/2008
                                      Closing:                  06/30/2008         06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately                                         Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower           Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:               Unsatisfactory


                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                 Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                33                   33
Education for all                                                      17                   17
Improving labor markets                                                16                   16
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                              17                   17
Social analysis and monitoring                                         17                   17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Theodore O. Ahlers                   Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:            Mamta Murthi                         Maureen Anne McLaughlin
Project Team Leader:       Alberto Rodriguez                    Suman Mehra
ICR Team Leader:           Katherine H. Hovde
ICR Primary Author:        Katherine H. Hovde


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project will assist the Borrower in modernizing its systems of employment,
education and social cohesion by developing an effective policy infrastructure to
implement, manage and evaluate employment, education and social cohesion reforms in
the MoLSAF and in the MOE.



                                                ii
 If successful, the project will develop institutional capacity for evidence-based policy
making in the two participating Ministries.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target      Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
                Permanent institutional capacity for evidence based policy monitoring developed
Indicator 1 :   in two Ministries (MOE and MoLSAF).

                                          Economic analysis
                                          of key reform
                                          options regularly
                                          presented to
                                          policymakers,
Value                                     parliamentarians
                Not available at
quantitative or                           and public.                       Partially achieved
                inception.
Qualitative)                              National
                                          Development
                                          Plans updated on a
                                          regular basis to
                                          high levels of
                                          quality.
Date achieved 07/28/2005                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
                The Project provided valuable information and data regarding the needs for
Comments
                streamlining management processes and skills upgrading in both the Ministries
(incl. %
                of Education and Labor. Many of the studies undertaken were contracted too late
achievement)
                in the implementation.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                     Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                     Target Years
                Inter-institutional capacity assessed among MoLSAF and associated instutions
Indicator 1 : and subordinate offices and MoE and associated institutuions and subordinate
                offices.
                                            System
Value                                       assessments and
(quantitative   Not available at inception strategic plans                  Partially achieved
or Qualitative)                             implemented in
                                            both sectors.


                                               iii
                                              100% of relevant
                                              staff trained in
                                              both Ministries.
Date achieved     07/28/2005                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
                  The MOE completed a process map that included inter-institutional relationships,
Comments
                  worked with universities in implementing the CAF management model
(incl. %
                  developed by the EIPA, and contracted an analysis of MOE#s research &
achievement)
                  development grant programs.
                  HR Management sytem in place in both Ministries;
Indicator 2 :
                  key staff in trained in social and educational policy making.
                                              Package of HR
                                              manuals finalized;
                                              100% of HR
                                              management staff
Value
                                              trained; 100% of
(quantitative     Not available at inception                                    Partially achieved
                                              policy employees
or Qualitative)
                                              in target groups
                                              trained; 100%
                                              reseearch grants
                                              allocated.
Date achieved     07/28/2005                  06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments          A few studies funded by the Project in both MOLSAF and MOE focused on
(incl. %          improvements in human resource management, and study recommendations
achievement)      were incorporated into HR systems.
                  Improved National Development Plans and key policy documents; quality and
Indicator 3 :
                  quantity of internationally comparable data improved.
                                              Indicators and
                                              benchmarks
                                              identified and used
Value
                                              in respective
(quantitative     Not available at inception                                    Partially achieved
                                              policy papers.
or Qualitative)
                                              Quality of key
                                              policy documents
                                              improved.
Date achieved     07/28/2005                  06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
                  There was no monitoring of the quality of development plans and policy
Comments
                  documents; such judgments would have been extremely subjective. A number of
(incl. %
                  consultant contracts under the Project were targetted at improving the quality and
achievement)
                  quantity of data

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     03/11/2005             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     08/19/2005             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.03
  3     02/09/2006             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.21



                                                 iv
  4    06/22/2006       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory   0.50
  5    11/06/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   0.80
  6    07/16/2007      Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory         1.25
  7    11/30/2007      Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory         1.39
  8    05/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   1.54
  9    08/27/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   1.54
                         Moderately
 10    10/22/2008                                     Unsatisfactory        1.97
                       Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately
 11    04/15/2009                                     Unsatisfactory        3.43
                       Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Slovakia Human Technical Assistance Project (HCTA) was approved on December
30, 2004, in conjunction with a US$100 million APL: the Social and Institutional
Development and Economic Management Technical Assistance Program (SIDEM) for
members of the EU8.1 Discussions between the World Bank and EU8 countries at the
time focused on two broad areas: first, increasing competitiveness and improving
economic management, including reducing fiscal deficits, and second, improving health
and education outcomes, increasing the effectiveness of the social protection system, and
reducing poverty and social exclusion. Achieving these goals depended in large part on
improving policy analysis and managerial capacity within government agencies and
affiliated institutions.

The approved Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was presented as a flexible device for
providing incoming EU countries with technical assistance directed to improving
institutional capacity. Under the overall umbrella of the APL and its broad focus areas,
individual countries could tailor requests for support which could then be fast-tracked for
approval. The Slovakia HCTA was the first (and, it turned out, the only) such request.

The Slovakia HCTA Project was developed in the context of a close working relationship
at the time between the Slovak Government and the World Bank. In the social sectors,
the Bank had supported a comprehensive health sector reform (IBRD 71950 ­ Health
Reform Project) as well as a reform of the pension system (IBRD 70980 ­ Social
Benefits Project). The information base for further developing and monitoring of policy
reforms was poor, however, and tightening the linkages between education, training and
the labor market remained a challenge.2

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

As stated in the appraisal document, the Project Development Objective (PDO) of the
HCTA Project was: "to develop an effective policy infrastructure to implement, manage,
and evaluate employment, education and social cohesion reforms in the Ministry of
Labor (MOLSAF) and the Ministry of Education (MOE)." The overall outcome
indicator was "permanent institutional capacity for evidence based policy monitoring
developed in two Ministries." Results indicators for each component were defined as
follows:

1
 In late 2004, the EU8 consisted of: The Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the
Slovak Republic, and Slovenia.

2
 The appraisal document notes the lack of reliable information on poverty and income distribution, for
example (see Project Appraisal (report # 30440-ECA, p. 23).


                                                    1
   ·   Component 1: Inter-institutional capacity assessed among MOLSAF and
       associated institutions and subordinate offices and MOE, and associated
       institutional and subordinate offices;
   ·   Component 2: Human resources (HR) management system in place in both
       ministries; key staff in both ministries, associated institutions and subordinate
       offices trained in social and educational policy making; and
   ·   Component 3: Improved national development plans and key policy documents;
       quality and quantity of internationally comparable data improved.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

There were no revisions to the Project Development Objectives or to the key indicators
made during the course of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The direct beneficiaries of the Project were the management and staff of the Ministries of
Labor and Education. Through better informed policy making and more efficient
management, the Project was to indirectly benefit the large percentage of the Slovak
population affected by programs and policies run by these two ministries.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Project supported activities were divided into three components:
   · Component 1: Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework. The objective of
        this component was to create a policy framework within which evidence-based
        policy making and the design and implementation of components of reform in the
        two ministries and associated institutions could be coordinated. The component
        had two subcomponents:


       (a) Inter-institutional assessment: this subcomponent was to provide consultant
           services to assess the current institutional arrangements and information flows
           for policy making and implementation in both ministries, and develop a
           consistent and sustainable strategy to increase technical capacity for design,
           implementation, and monitoring of reforms; and


       (b) Project coordination and sustainability: this subcomponent supported the
           creation of a project coordination unit (PCU) and strategies to mainstream and
           ensure sustainability of reforms.




                                            2
   ·   Component 2: Investment in Human Resources. The objective of this
       component was to achieve a significant improvement in the quality of human
       resources available for policy making and implementation in the two participating
       ministries and associated institutions, through increasing the capacity of existing
       staff, supplemented by strategic staff re-allocation and targeted recruitment, to
       analyze policy options and the impact of ongoing reforms. This component had
       two subcomponents:


       (a) Improvement of human resources management systems: consultant services
           funded through this subcomponent were to include analyses of the strengths
           and weaknesses of the HR situation in both ministries, as well as the
           development of proposals for improvements in, inter-alia, training,
           information systems, and assessment criteria; and


       (b) Staff training and development: consultant services under this subcomponent
           were to include the development and implementation of specific training plans
           and incentive structures that would create and enhance policy capacity with
           the ministries and attract new talent. Included under this subcomponent were
           funds for a competitive grant program to universities, to help expand courses
           of study in areas relevant to policy analysis.



   ·   Component 3: Building and Upgrading Institutional Capacity. The objective
       of this component was to create and implement an integrated policy management
       system to structure and guide the various steps in the policy cycle in both
       ministries and associated institutions. This component too had two
       subcomponents:


       (a) Policy formulation: consultant services under this subcomponent were
           directed to improving policy making, including the development of important
           national social and educational action plans and reports;


       (b) Improve information base for social policy formulation, monitoring and
           evaluation: this subcomponent supported consultancies designed to identify
           areas in which important data were lacking, make proposals for
           improvements/alterations in data collection systems and indicators, and
           identify training needs for staff in data analysis.

1.6 Revised Components


                                            3
Components were not revised during the course of the Project.




                                           4
1.7 Other significant changes

After a change in Government in June 2006, the project implementation arrangements
were altered, although this alteration did not necessitate an amendment to the Loan
Agreement (please see section 2.2 for further discussion). In 2008, the Slovak
Government requested and the World Bank granted a one year extension for project
implementation. The Project closed June 30, 2009.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis: As noted above, the HCTA Project was prepared in the context of
a longstanding, high level, and fruitful policy dialogue between the Slovak Government
and the World Bank across a range of areas, as well as World Bank financing support for
a series of reforms in the health sector and pension policy. The need for improved policy
analysis and managerial capacity in both the ministries of Labor and Education had been
highlighted in sector work, technical assistance provided to the Ministry of Education,
and in the course of the development and implementation of the Social Benefits Project
within the Ministry of Labor. As this Project was not tied to specific policy actions, the
issue of accuracy of sector specific analysis does not arise. It is not clear, however, that
much attention was given to gauging the interest and capacity of the intended
beneficiaries (ministry staff) to use the technical assistance effectively, or even
understand what the technical assistance was meant to achieve. As later discussed, early
Government commitment to the Project was strong, but not broadly shared within the two
ministries.

Project Design: The HCTA Project was prepared within an extremely short time frame ­
two months from identification to Board approval. The Slovak Government was in a
hurry to move things forward before the next election, while the Bank, in turn, was under
some pressure in the region to prove its ability to be a timely and agile source of
financing, particularly as countries moving toward full EU membership had increased
access to EU and other funds. Unsurprisingly, some aspects of Project design were
affected by the compressed schedule. For example, although a very detailed procurement
plan was developed for the Project, there was insufficient time to develop actual Terms of
Reference (TORs) for studies such that tenders would be ready to go once
implementation commenced. While MOLSAF staff had some knowledge regarding the
development of TORs, the MOE had never worked with the Bank on a project before.

The request for the Project originated with the Slovak Government, which undertook the
bulk of preparation of the Project proposal. Although the Bank allocated its best staff to
the process, deference was given to a sophisticated Borrower with clear objectives. The
decision to include both ministries, although making the Project more complicated, was
non-negotiable; indeed concern about improving policy making and management within

                                             5
the MOE was the driving force behind the project request in the first place. Certain
aspects of project design, such as the use of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) rather
than ministry financial and procurement units were also driven by both Government
preference and the need for expediency. Similarly, the composition and role of the
project steering committee, which became a stumbling block later in the Project was
determined by the then Slovak Government. Another aspect of the Project (which was
ultimately never implemented) was a competitive grant program for universities to
encourage increased supply of courses of study in public policy. This idea was added
during negotiations at the insistence of the Borrower; because there was insufficient time
to develop detailed rules for such a program, the Bank agreed to include a consultancy
under the Project to come up with a manual, which, once approved by both the Borrower
and the Bank, would govern the grants program.

The determination of Project evaluation indicators and benchmarks also suffered from a
combination of speed and deference to the Borrower's proposal. TA projects are
notoriously hard to evaluate, but many of the indicators selected for this Project are either
too broad and/or subjective to be very helpful, or are really outputs rather than an attempt
to assess outcomes. Moreover, a robust evaluation plan was never developed as part of
the project design. This issue is discussed further in Section 2.3.


Government Commitment: As mentioned above, Government commitment at the time of
project preparation was very strong, but concentrated in a handful of high-placed
individuals within each ministry and their staffs. There was little knowledge of and
possibly commitment to the Project at the technical level within the line departments of
the ministries. The wager that the Government and the Bank undertook at the time was
that these individuals would be around long enough to effect top-down change. The
Project Appraisal Report (PAD) is quite explicit about this wager. Under the
"sustainability" discussion, the PAD emphasizes that the design was largely that of the
Borrower, and that "assuming that the existing strong leadership continues, it is expected
that Project outcomes will be mainstreamed in the MOLSAF and to a lesser extent in the
MOE, within the lifetime of the Project." Less than a year after effectiveness, the
Project originators moved on, and implementation ground to a halt.

Lessons Learned and Incorporated: The appraisal report states that among the lessons
learned from other capacity building loans are: (i) strong ownership of the Project in the
relevant Government ministries and other participating institutions; (ii) understanding of
the objective of the reforms supported by the Project; and (iii) clear project goals that are
well communicated to stakeholders both inside the implementing ministries and in
associated institutions. As discussed above, at the time of appraisal these conditions
only held true for a handful of ministry staff. There is no available documentation of
efforts by the Borrower to organize stakeholder meetings and the like, but even so, it is
unreasonable to think that these conditions could have been achieved more broadly
during a two month period.

2.2 Implementation

                                              6
The Project was approved by the Board on December 30, 2004. A PCU director within
MOLSAF was appointed soon thereafter. The Loan was signed on April 1, 2005, and
became effective on April 13, 2005. A project coordinator was appointed in the Ministry
of Education and began work on June 1, 2005, with the expectation that project activities
would begin in the MOE as of September of that year, as was agreed during project
negotiations.

From quite early on, project implementation and disbursement were adversely affected by
a number of factors, including:

   a) Change in Government. Approximately eight months after project
      effectiveness, early elections were announced in Slovakia. All ministries were
      asked to institute a freeze on major contracts until the elections were held on June
      17, 2006. With the new Government, the main project advocates in both the
      Ministries of Labor and Education left, and the incoming Government instituted a
      review of all projects, contracts and commitments. Although the new
      Government did not seek to cancel the Project, there initially appeared to be little
      interest in implementing it. Discussions were held between Bank representatives
      and both ministers regarding potential re-structuring of the Project. In the case of
      the MOE, these discussions resulted in renewed commitment to at least a portion
      of the project objectives and activities (rather than a formal re-structuring per-se);
      in the case of MOLSAF too, some activities resumed, but many were disparate,
      and bore only tangential relationship with the original project activities.


   b) Accession to the European Union. More generally, accession to the European
      Union changed the drivers and imperatives for policy reform, and the project was
      not able to evolve in a way to help with this changed landscape. New priorities
      and availability of new resources shift the attention from the activities financed
      under this project to others.


   c) Frequent changes in project staffing on part of both Borrower and the Bank.
      Exacerbating the delays brought on by the change in Government and context
      were the frequent shifts in staffing for the Project on the part of both the
      Government and the Bank. On the Bank's side, the Project had four task
      managers over the four and one half years of implementation, owing to staff
      retirement and secondment. On the Government side, the original project director
      left six months after the change in Government. This departure was followed by a
      number of proposals for re-organizing the PCU and the appointment of two
      additional directors by MOLSAF, neither of whom held the position for more
      than a few months. Faced with a non-disbursing director-less Project, the Bank
      accepted the proposal from the then MOLSAF Minister that the procurement
      specialist double as the project director, despite the fact such an arrangement is
      usually discouraged under Bank practices, and the person in question had no

                                             7
         content knowledge or connections with the line departments within the ministries.
         At the same time, again at the request of the MOLSAF Minister, the project
         coordinator for the MOE portion of the Project became the project coordinator for
         the whole Project. Despite having formal responsibility for the project as a
         whole, this person lacked strong connections or allegiances within MOLSAF to
         draw on in order to move the project forward.


    d) Loan amount and budget rules. Project implementation was also affected by
       both the size of the loan and the budget rules in Slovakia. At the time of project
       appraisal, the small size of the loan represented for both the Government and the
       Bank a relatively low-risk opportunity (in terms of financial and reputational cost)
       to achieve desired change. Once the Government changed, however, the small
       size of the loan failed to attract much attention. Moreover, the budget rules in
       Slovakia do not permit the use of a special account, so project activities had to be
       included in the normal ministry budget, and were not incremental to those
       budgets. In the first year of the Project when the project originators were still in
       power, the timing of the budget cycle and project approval meant that both
       ministries had to "find" funds for project activities within an already defined
       budget that did not include them. Other resources also became available after EU
       accession, making the implementation of this project less visible.


    e) Difficulties with procurement. Part of the original rationale for the HCTA
       Project was that Bank involvement would help in the identification and
       procurement of top international experts in policy and management. As earlier
       mentioned, there was insufficient time to actually design and pre-approve TORs
       and packages during the preparation process; once project implementation started,
       the combination of budget constraints, political and staff turnover, and lack of
       familiarity on the part of technical staff in line departments with TOR design (or
       indeed the Project objectives overall) slowed down the procurement process.
       Instead of designing large packages that would attract the attention of
       international firms, procurement packages actually sent to the Bank for approval
       tended to be relatively small. While procurement processes were open to
       international firms, few such firms chose to bid, and the bulk of the contracts
       awarded were to local Slovak firms. The net result of this piecemeal approach
       was that related activities were often done by separate firms, risking overlap and a
       loss of depth and breadth of understanding of the issues at hand, as well as
       creating a great deal of additional work for both the PCU and the Bank.3


3
  The original Procurement Plan approved at the time of Project Appraisal contained 22 activities. As of
the Project closing, over 80 activities had been contracted, excluding business study trips. In some cases,
the division of activites appears to have been done in order to complete work within a compressed time
frame once the loan extension had been given.


                                                      8
      f) Joint Project Steering Committee. The creation of a joint MOLSAF/MOE
         steering committee to guide and approve activities was included in project design
         both as a coordinating mechanism and a means for elevating the political profile
         of the Project. Although the Loan Agreement did not specify the membership of
         this committee beyond the need for representatives of both ministries, the
         appraisal document makes clear that it was seen as a forum for the key advocates
         to meet, discuss, and control the Project. With the change of Government, the
         membership of this committee was altered such that the designated
         representatives would be both ministers. While the reconstituted Steering
         Committee did continue to meet to approve the Project procurement plan, such
         meetings at the ministerial level were not frequent. Changes to or introduction of
         new activities in the procurement plan were held hostage to the meeting schedule,
         contributing to implementation delays (please see section 7a for further
         discussion).



      g) E conomic Downturn. The advent of the world economic crisis in the fall of
          2008 also had an adverse effect on project implementation, in that several
          contracts for large studies were scaled back in scope due to budgetary pressures.
          This was particularly true within MOLSAF.
Despite the Project's generally lackluster disbursement performance at the time, the
Government of Slovakia requested an extension of one year in the spring of 2008. The
Bank granted this extension request, in part because at least some activities had finally
gotten underway within the MOE and MOLSAF, and in part because the Bank was
interested in continuing a policy dialogue with Slovakia. The pace of both project
implementation and disbursement picked up significantly during 2008. The Project
closed on June 30, 2009, having disbursed 80% of total funds.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As presented in the PAD, the monitoring and evaluation design for the Project took the
form of a results framework4 that defined overall and intermediate project outcome
indicators. This was accompanied by a table sketching out benchmark events for the
three years of the Project. These benchmarks were to be tracked through surveys and
twice-yearly progress reports prepared by the Project director. As mentioned above,
some of these benchmarks and indicators are quite subjective and/or vague (i.e.
"improved national development plans and key policy documents"), while others are
purely outcomes (i.e. 50% of relevant staff in MOE trained in Common Assessment
Framework CAF) with no real attempt to assess quality or impact (e.g. what trained MOE
staff are doing differently?). There is no discussion within the PAD of the use of any

4
    See annex 3 of Appraisal Report # 30440-ECA


                                                  9
outside evaluation, how various contractors (once selected) would be
monitored/evaluated, or the need to include evaluation as part of many of the contracted
activities (for example, training).

Despite these drawbacks, early progress reports from the Borrower did include at least
some subjective evaluation of consultant performance and beneficiaries' assessment of
training; later progress reports and aide-memoires tended to focus on implementation
problems and project management structures as implementation stalled. Monitoring by
the PCU of both procurement processes and the status of contracted activities was
consistently good, and most large studies included feedback sessions with ministry line
staff to discuss conclusions and recommendations ­ certainly a case of best practice. In
the absence of a robust monitoring and evaluation plan, however, very little evaluation
information of either a subjective or objective nature routinely made it back from the line
ministry departments to the PCU and the Bank. On at least one occasion, a Bank task
manager approved an activity with the caveat that it be used as a "pilot" for approaching
a task in a new way, and evaluated as such. It appears that this was never done, the task
manager changed, and there was no follow-up. While basic outcome information, such
as the number of people trained under particular activities was gathered from
coordinating line departments as part of the Borrower ICR process and is available as part
of this document, this information, was not readily available at the level of the PCU
during the course of project implementation5.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguards were triggered. The Project was classified as environmental category C.

Financial Management: The overall financial management rating for the Project is
satisfactory. The Project financial statements were subject to annual audit by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, who issued unqualified audit opinions. In
the case of the first audit, the management letter noted that the Project director was also
in a few cases the person in charge of a specific activity funded under the Project, and
recommended that these tasks be separated. This separation was effected. Project
financial monitoring reports were submitted on a timely basis and were acceptable;
during Project implementation, supervision missions rated the Project financial
management as satisfactory, and recommendations were generally adhered to.

As noted above, the Project was implemented by two Ministries, MOLSAF and MOE,
with the PCU located in MOLSAF. The Project shared fiduciary functions (procurement
and financial management staff based in the PCU) with another Project implemented by
MOLSAF ­ the Social Benefit Reform Project. The use of PCU staff was deemed
necessary as the existing Ministry staff were deemed too overcommitted to take on



5
  For example, this information was requested as part of a supervision mission in March, 2008, but was not
readily available even for activities that had been completed some time previously.


                                                   10
additional tasks.6 The Project used elements of the country system, including payments
and maintaining the primary accounting records in line with local budgetary procedures
and by the existing departments of the participating ministries, with project accounting
and reporting done on a parallel basis.

Procurement: The overall procurement rating for the Project is also satisfactory.
Procurement under the Project generally adhered to Bank guidelines; procurement
processes were consistently tracked and procurement documentation well organized.
Nonetheless, it is again worth noting that the original plan of packaging TA contracts so
as to be of interest to international consultants was largely abandoned. While
individually acceptable from a procurement standpoint, the net effect of a plethora of
small contracts was to break up tasks that might have had more value and impact if taken
together. As noted above, the fact that the Project did not have pre-approved TORs and
key TA packages identified prior to project commencement also led to some
procurement-associated implementation delays. At the very end of the project
implementation period, the last supervision mission also noted what appeared to be
intentional limiting of competition among local firms in a number of small value
contracts.7 Please see section 7a for further discussion.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Slovakia graduated from World Bank lending in 2008 and became part of the Euro-zone
in January 2009. As of this time, no follow up project is planned.

As discussed further in the following section, areas in which project activities seem most
likely to be sustained include: the MOE's work in implementing the CAF some
rationalization of management structures and processes, and a series of human resource
management reforms. Within MOLSAF, it appears that several small consultancies
overseen by line departments or affiliated institutions also had considerable buy-in and
influence over a process of re-thinking sub-agency or departmental policy, organization
and management.8 Some of the early work done on improving statistical indicators and
methodologies used in evaluating and determining program performance/eligibility also
appears to have been incorporated into ongoing ministry policy making and analytic
functions.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

6
  Nevertheless, at the beginning of the project there were several unsuccessful attempts to find existing
staff capable of serving as a financial management specialist for the project.

7
    In a number of cases, short lists consisted of 2-3 firms, rather than the six required under Bank guidelines.

8
 In particular, the work done with the Center for International Legal Protection of Children, and the work
done with IOS in the Department for Social Inclusion Services.


                                                        11
The Slovak Republic graduated from eligibility for World Bank assistance in 2008 and is
no longer covered under Bank regional or country assistance strategies. There is
therefore no direct relevance of the Project objectives, design or implementation to
further Bank assistance in Slovakia.

With regard to the issue of the Project's relevance to country and global priorities, at the
time of project preparation, the overall objective "to develop an effective policy
infrastructure to implement, manage, and evaluate employment, education and social
cohesion reforms in the Ministry of Labor (MOLSAF) and the Ministry of Education
(MOE)" was certainly relevant, and as mentioned earlier was well grounded in the
Bank's overall assistance strategy for the country and the region. It is also likely that this
objective remains a relevant one, partly because the Project only partially achieved its
objectives, and particularly as improved policy analysis can make for more informed
spending decisions in a time of economic crisis. The MOE, for example, has one of the
largest ministry budgets, and improvements in spending there could have a significant
impact on overall governmental spending.

Turning to the issue of project design and implementation, the determination of relevance
becomes less straightforward. The Government at the time of project development took
the lead in requesting for and the design of the Project, so clearly they felt it relevant to
their needs. With its wealth of experience in project implementation, the Bank might
have been able to address some issues in the design to avoid future implementation
problems and make the overall Project more relevant.

But in terms of the needs of the beneficiary Ministries, project design and implementation
is probably only moderately relevant. The use of extensive outside technical assistance
as a catalyst for reform is not likely to be an appealing strategy at a time of budgetary
entrenchment, and the project implementation arrangements and history are relevant
mostly in highlighting a series of problems to be considered and avoided in future. Three
positive and relevant lessons emerging from the design and implementation of the Project
stand out: first, although PCU did not always work well in practice for various reasons,
the design of a slim PCU that interacted with line ministry departments and did not
attempt to set itself up as a mini-ministry was a good one. Second, for those line
departments who understood the availability of technical assistance as an opportunity,
defined well what they wanted, and found good consultants, the results were viewed
positively and the contribution of an outside perspective particularly valued. Finally, in
areas where consultants were brought in to advise on highly technical issues that
nonetheless have policy import (such as the definition of the poverty line), that work
appears to have been sustained.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the PDO is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.




                                             12
Assessment of the PDO for this ICR was subject to a number of challenges, including: a)
poor specification of indicators in the project design; b) occasional difficulties in
matching activities to sub-component objectives; c) lack of a robust monitoring and
evaluation plan; and d) inability of PCU staff to obtain ex-post implementation and
evaluation data in a timely manner. Details on activities and outputs by component may
be found in Annex 2; information gaps are as noted (please also see further discussion in
section 7a).

Overall PDO Indicator: "Permanent institutional capacity for evidenced based
policy monitoring developed in two ministries."

Overall, the Project provided valuable information and data regarding the needs for
streamlining management processes and skills upgrading in both the Ministries of
Education and Labor, which was one of the Project's objectives. The Project also funded
quite a lot of staff training in both ministries. The Borrower's view of the Project as
expressed through the Borrower ICR (see Annex 7) as well as in a number of interviews
with ministry line staff was also largely positive. At the end of the day, the Project
funded a large list of activities and disbursed a respectable amount of the originally
allocated funds. Why then is the Project rated as moderately unsatisfactory, rather than
satisfactory, or moderately satisfactory?

The answer to this question lies in issues of timing, project scope, emphasis, and
coherence. In the original Project concept, international technical assistance was to be
used as a catalyst for a major and coordinated overhaul of the work of both ministries,
with particular attention to improving data sources and policy analysis skills of ministry
staff. This work was to begin with comprehensive analysis of existing management
systems and inter-institutional relationships, as well as staff skill levels.
Recommendations flowing from this work were to be translated into re-organization
proposals and staff development plans, with associated training funded out of the Project.

In fact, this sequence was largely scrapped from the beginning of project implementation.
Early contracts funded under the Project, although worthwhile and within project
objectives, were much smaller in scope.9 Related activities were frequently contracted
with different consultants, with a corresponding loss of scope and insight into an issue or
area. While several larger process and HR studies were eventually completed, several
were finished so late into the implementation period that it was impossible to broadly
address identified skill and knowledge gaps through the Project. While some training
funded under the Project followed from an initial assessment and proposal, quite a bit of
the training funded was of the one-off type: worthwhile, perhaps, but not part of any
coherent strategy for the ministry as a whole (see further discussion below).

Moreover, the focus of many of the project funded studies and activities also shifted
towards management in general and HR management in particular, rather than
9
  One reason for this may have been the earlier mentioned issue of budgetary funds ­ most funds were
already committed for the year at the time of project effectiveness.


                                                   13
specifically on the policy capacity that was the original project emphasis. This fact
constrained the Bank's ability to advise on policy through the activities of the loan, and
the Bank's comparative advantage as a lender was thereby lost. Bank staff involved in
working with the MOE on a public expenditure review as recently as 2008 stated that it
was clear that the MOE had no interest in discussing policy reform as related to
efficiency and sustainability of expenditures. Nor was the Bank able to re-engage top
MOLSAF staff in any substantive discussions of policy. It appears unlikely, therefore,
that the Project contributed significantly to establishing a culture of evidence based
policy making within either ministry.

Intermediate Outcome Indicator #1: Inter-institutional capacity assessed among
MOLSAF and associated institutions and subordinate offices and MOE and
associated institutions and subordinate offices.

This indicator was partially achieved. A number of studies undertaken by the MOE
moved in this direction, including the creation of a process map that included inter-
institutional relationships, work done within the ministry and with universities in
implementing the Common Assessment Framework (CAF) management model
developed by the European Institute of Public Administration (EIPA), and work
analyzing MOE's research and development grant programs.10 While judged very useful
by the Ministry, these were largely management studies, and not focused on policy
content or capacity (the research and development work excepted).

Within MOLSAF, an overall assessment of inter-institutional capacity was never
contracted out. MOLSAF did contract a process audit quite late in the implementation
period (2009), but the work was cut back significantly due to budgetary containment
measures. The work contracted again focused more on organizational and management
issues than policy capacity per se. According to the Borrower ICR, recommendations
from this partial study with regard to IT and management issues are likely to be
implemented. Work was also completed early in the project implementation period on a
system of indicators that would help with MOLSAF's internal monitoring and assessment
of programs and institutions.11 Several smaller studies also dealt with the issue of
institutional capacity assessment, including one done for the department of social
inclusion services (activity B.2.3.3), and the development of a strategy for the
development of MOLSAF's Center for International Legal Protection of Children
(activity B.2.3.4), a small entity under the MOLSAF umbrella. In the case of both these
studies, the responsible ministry line personnel considered the results extremely useful
and of high quality; in both cases, further actions were taken in line with
recommendations.


10
   Work done analyzing the research and grant making potential in various sectors of the MOE was
actually classified under component 2 (activity B.1.4).

11
   This work is actually categorized as an activity under component (3) ­ see C.2.1.3.1 in the activities
table in Annex 2.


                                                     14
Intermediate Outcome Indicator #2: HR Management system in place in both
Ministries; key staff trained in social and educational policy making;

This indicator was also partially achieved. Quite a few studies funded by the Project in
both MOLSAF and MOE focused on improvements in human resource management.
Within MOLSAF, an early assessment of HR capacity was completed, and included the
production of HR management "kits" which were then the focus of staff training.12
According to the Borrower ICR, these kits are still in use. MOLSAF subsequently
contracted a study of "non-formal education policy" within the Ministry followed by yet
another study (development of an overall human resources development strategy) with
the same firm late in the implementation period (2009). This second study was partly
cancelled due to budget restrictions, and participation in both studies on the part of top
personnel was limited.13 In the MOE, an "initial assessment and planning of HR
management" was contracted under the previous Government and completed in 2007.
According to the MOE, this study produced recommendations forming the basis for the
development of other activities.14 In 2008, the MOE proceeded to contract another
"strategy for human resources development" study with a separate company. A third
firm was hired by the MOE to complete the "harmonization of civil service job
descriptions and competencies with the organizational rules and processes of the MOE."
In the case of this study (actually two related studies by the same contractor), revised job
descriptions have actually been incorporated into the MOE personnel system. The
current heads of personnel for both MOLSAF and the MOE both asserted the Project's
usefulness to HR management functions.

With regard to staff training, the Project ended up funding a considerable amount of
training, but only some of this was determined by initial overall capacity assessments. As
mentioned above, much of the training was of the one-off type, including participation in
seminars and the like. Some of the seminars and trainings were policy-related: for
example, training offered through OECD on the issue of school-to-work transition.
Some training was not strictly policy related, such as media and communications training
for top MOLSAF and MOE managers. Much of the early training in MOLSAF was
directed to the staff of the Social Policy Institute, which was subsequently eliminated
with the change in Government. Most of the beneficiaries of that training no longer work
within MOLSAF. Training offered by the MOE to internal staff and university
representatives was well attended and directed to the realization of actual CAF
assessments. Here too, however, the emphasis was training in the CAF management

12
     This work was done in 2006 by MS Triton company ­ see activity B.1.1.1.

13
     See activity B.1.1. in Annex 2.

14
   For example, the MOE cites the Elaboration of the Personnel Strategy, Job Description Update, Job
Computerization of Job Descriptions, Human Resource Plan Elaboration, Introduction of exit interviews,,
Elaboration of career order and qualification matrix, introduction of succession planning and career
reserves, creation of standards of the evaluation interview, elaboration of remuneration policy,
implementation of process management, and MOE corporate identity.


                                                    15
model, not on policy analysis. There was some evaluation of training by beneficiaries
included in the earliest project progress reports, but none for the remainder of the Project.
In interviews with line department activity coordinators, most reported positively on any
training done within the scope the contract they were responsible for; however, no
beneficiary assessment of training is available.15 The idea of initiating a grant program to
universities in support of more public policy oriented courses of study never got off the
ground.16

Intermediate Outcome Indicator #3: Improved national development plans and key
policy documents; quality and quantity of internationally comparable data
improved.

To the extent that this indicator can be assessed, it too was partially achieved. There is
no indication that the PCU, the World Bank, or either ministry ever engaged in
systematic monitoring of national development plans or key policy documents with this
indicator in mind; any judgments on quality regarding these must be in any case quite
subjective. With regard to improving the quality and quantity of data, a number of
consultant contracts funded under the Project were oriented toward this goal, including:
a) work on refining the definition and methodology for calculating the absolute poverty
line; b) work on developing a new methodology for analysis of labor market indicators,
c) design of a system of indicators for better monitoring and evaluation of MOLSAF
programs; and d) design of an evaluation system for research and development outputs.
According to the Borrower, these revised methodologies and indicators are still in use by
both ministries, and the quality of the work was judged by ministry staff to be good.

3.3 Efficiency

Not Applicable. There was no economic analysis done as part of this Project.




15
   Note that it may be that beneficiary assessment of training was in fact completed by either responsible
line departments or contractors, but that this information was not provided by the PCU to the Bank despite
repeated requests.

16
   Please note that the grant program referenced is NOT the grant program undertaken by the MOE in the
area of science and technology. his idea surfaced at project negotiations and was included at the last
minute in the project at the insistence of the then State Secretary of MOLSAF. It was agreed that a
consultancy under the project would define the guidelines for a grant program, which once approved by the
Bank, would allow for grant funding of universities to expand their public policy course options.


                                                    16
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The Project is rated moderately unsatisfactory based on moderate relevance of project
design and implementation and only partial achievement of the Project's development
objectives.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Some of the work done under the Project, such as the re-definition of the poverty line,
and a campaign against domestic violence, could well have had an impact beyond the
consultancy, training or materials production that was actually financed. In the absence
of any serious evaluation, however, it is impossible to say what that impact might be.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As noted above, the Project has provided potentially useful information and training to
both ministries regarding institutional flows and practices, human resource needs
assessments and strategies, and management tools. Where line department involvement
has been high, work done under the Project has contributed to institutional strengthening.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Many of the activities funded under the Project (training, study development, etc.)
involved workshops and training of ministry staff, who were the direct beneficiaries of
the Project. Although contractors may have incorporated beneficiary evaluation of their
work into the process, this information was not systematically insisted upon or monitored
by the PCU or the Bank. Opinions of line staff and managers with regard to specific
Project activities are garnered largely from interviews and are noted where available in
Annex 2. By and large, line ministry staff assessments of Project activities were positive.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderately High.

As noted above, the Project only partially achieved its development objectives. As to the
sustainability of the work that has been done, those activities or studies that had both high
level managerial support and considerable line department involvement appear the most
likely to be sustained beyond the current Government. These include the work done
within the MOE on implementation of the CAF management model, which pre-dates the

                                             17
Project but was expanded under it, some of the work revising indicators and data
methodologies, work done within the MOE on science and technology incentives, work
done for the MOLSAF's Center for International Legal Protection of Children, and work
done with the MOLSAF's Department of Social Inclusion Services.

Because of the slow pace of implementation, many of the skills training needs identified
could not be met under the Project before the end of the implementation period and may
be unlikely to be funded in a period of economic crisis. Several other of the activities
funded under the Project are by their nature not meant to be sustained: for example, the
public information campaign regarding the currency change over to the Euro. What
could have been gained in this case would be the learning and expertise resulting from
implementing a massive campaign of this kind. Once again, however, the absence of any
systematic evaluation makes it unlikely this opportunity was fully exploited (please see
further discussion in section 7a).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory. As
discussed in section 2.1 above, there were clearly some weaknesses in the Project design
at the point of appraisal and board approval, including the lack of pre-approved TORs
and procurement packages, insufficient time to gain broader stakeholder commitment,
lack of clear rules governing the proposed university grants program, and a weak
evaluation plan. On the other hand, the Bank was responding to a Borrower request, the
Project objectives were ones which the Bank felt important, the Borrower assumed the
bulk of the preparation of Project documentation, and both sides were aware that they
needed to move quickly to conform to political cycles.

What might the Bank have done differently? While it is unlikely that detailed TORs and
procurement packages for the whole of the Project could have been worked through
without slowing down the expedited project preparation timetable, the Bank could have
chosen to maintain somewhat tighter control at the outset: for example, by insisting that
the Borrower have at least three critical TORs/procurement packages pre-approved and
ready to go as a condition of loan signing or effectiveness. While the Bank has
increasingly shied away from such conditioning, the fact of the matter remains that if
these things are not ready before loan effectiveness, they tend to rebound during
implementation ­ even for sophisticated Borrowers. Alternatively, the Bank could have
openly acknowledged that the short preparation period would likely translate to an
increased need for intensive supervision and Bank TA at the outset of the Project, and
made sure that this was provided. Another aspect of the Project that the Bank might
have improved with no delays and little effort was the evaluation plan, and the selection



                                           18
of adequate and measurable indicators of Project performance. This is an area where the
Bank has a lot of experience and could have provided some value-added.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The quality of Bank supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory. Individual TTLs
were chosen for seniority and they worked hard to improve project implementation. But
the flip side was there was turnover ­ two staff retired and one was seconded to a
managerial position elsewhere. In all cases there was at least one mission in which both
outgoing and incoming task managers participated, which is a clear best practice. But
more could have been done to front-load technical assistance to prepare TORs etc. in the
knowledge that some corners had been cut during preparation. For the most part, TTL
time was taken up to move project activities and disbursements forward, with less time to
push for evaluation and assessment

Once the Government changed, the Bank attempted to engage the new ministers in
MOLSAF and MOE in a frank discussion regarding the Project's future, including the
possibility of restructuring. In the case of the MOE, this discussion resulted in re-
commitment to at least a portion of the planned activities, although not a formal
restructuring. In the case of MOLSAF, there was also some resumption of activities,
although interest in the Project and a formal restructuring again waned after the Bank
declined to finance a large public relations campaign that in the Bank's view did not fit
within agreed project or policy objectives.

A lingering question is whether the Bank should have considered cancelling the entire
Project or part of the Project when Government changed, or at least declined the
requested extension of the Project implementation period in 2008. In the absence of a
Government request to cancel, it made sense that the Bank should work with the new
Government to see to what extent the Project could support mutually agreed objectives.
With regard to the extension request, by that time at least some worthwhile activities
were underway, particularly in the MOE, although it was also fairly clear that the Project
was unlikely to achieve its development objectives. Cancelling the MOLSAF portion of
the Project at this point might have made sense, although it would have complicated
Project management, given that the PCU was housed inside MOLSAF. Here Bank
approval for the extension request was additionally motivated by the desire to maintain
some policy dialogue with Slovakia which has been borne out but only partially?.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The rating for overall Bank performance is moderately satisfactory. There were
compelling reasons for moving the Project forward on an expedited basis, which clearly
explain some weaknesses in project design that were let slide. The assumption was that
project advocates within the ministries could and would make up for those design

                                            19
deficiencies; that assumption proved incorrect. Even during the first few months of the
project with the Project originators in power, implementation was slow.

However, the Bank's implementation support and judicious supervision carried out
attempted to correct design gaps, even amidst Government changes and uneven interest
for project activities. Indeed, the support provided by the Bank was important to afford
the opportunity for the project to produce valuable outcomes and outputs that are
documented in this report. Fiduciary support was timely, continuous, and substantive.

Finally, both in the decision to approve the Project on an expedited basis and to extend
the implementation period, institutional interests (specifically, the desire to continue to be
a strategic partner in the more advanced countries in ECA region) influenced Project-
level decisions.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating for Government performance is moderately unsatisfactory. The Project
originated with a request from the Slovak Government to the Bank, and initially enjoyed
high level political support. With the change in Government a year into Project
implementation, that situation shifted. While the incoming Government did not seek to
cancel the Project, there was initially little support for it, either political or financial:
Project funds were not considered incremental to regular ministry budgets, which further
limited implementing agency interest.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

MOE: The rating for the performance of the Ministry of Education under the Project is
moderately unsatisfactory. It was understood at the outset of the Project that
implementation within the MOE would take longer to get started. In fact, even despite
the presence of a project "champion" in a powerful position within the MOE, virtually no
project activities were undertaken during the first two years. After the change in
Government and renewed discussions with Bank staff, implementation finally began to
take off, and the MOE proceeded to contract a series of studies and activities
contemplated under the Project. The main thrust of these involved the expansion of the
Common Assessment Framework management model (CAF) both within the MOE and
affiliated Universities throughout the country. This model is fairly widely used in
European public institutions, and its implementation within the MOE had been included
in the Project design from the beginning. Using Project financing, the MOE also
undertook a number of studies on organizational and personnel issues, in which line
department personnel were involved and which produced recommendations that
managers in interviews professed to find useful. In at least one instance, recommended
changes were incorporated into personnel systems. It should be noted, however, that
these studies were largely divorced from any examination of the MOE's policy function,

                                             20
and there was little effort directed at improving MOE staff's policy analysis capacity.
One notable exception to this rule was the work done on revising the grant program for
science and technology grants, which did have policy analysis content.

MOLSAF: The rating for the performance of the Ministry of Labor under the Project is
moderately unsatisfactory. The PCU for the Project was housed within MOLSAF, and
MOLSAF bears responsibility for a good deal of the problems with Project management
on the Borrower's side. With regard to project content and activities, a number of
relevant, policy-oriented studies and trainings took place during the first year and a half
of the Project, although these were not the larger internationally-oriented contracts for
technical assistance initially contemplated. While some personnel-related and
management studies were undertaken, most were contracted late in the implementation
period and had little policy focus. The Ministry used project funds for some activities
that would undoubtedly have been done anyway (such as a public information campaign
on the adoption of the Euro), and some activities (such as the campaign against violence
against women) which were laudable but only tangentially related to project objectives. .
Exceptions to this rule include the work undertaken by the Department for Social
Inclusion Services, and that done with the Center for International Legal Protection of
Children.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The rating for overall Borrower Performance is moderately unsatisfactory. Initial project
champions were overly optimistic about their ability to implement the Project quickly,
and implementation problems were compounded by the change in Government.
Ultimately, many of the studies contemplated within the original procurement plan were
contracted and completed, and many were considered useful by ministry line staff.
Nonetheless, several of these lacked the high level support and vision internally which
would give weight to the recommendations, and the fracturing of related areas into
separate contracts probably diminished their utility. Furthermore, the original Project
vision of connecting policy function to management structures was for the most part lost.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

   a) Continuity matters. Designing a Project that depends on the permanence and
      efficacy of a handful of individuals is a high-risk proposition. More work up
      front, and where that was not possible, early on in implementation, to build
      support for the project at the technical level would have resulted in greater
      ownership.

   b) There is often a tradeoff between speed of preparation and implementation
      readiness. While it is not the case that projects that take a long time to prepare
      are necessarily implementation­ready, it is generally true that a project prepared
      in record time cuts some corners. In the case of HCTA, the proposal lacked

                                            21
       broader understanding of and commitment to the Project within the ministries,
       which came back to haunt the Project in multiple ways. The Bank should have
       compensated for some of the shortened preparation time by the provision of more
       intensive supervision in the early stages of the Project to compensate for activities
       which could not be fully prepared earlier.



   c) Small projects, small interest. The amount the loan for the HCTA project was
      probably adequate for the actual tasks, but not enough to catch and hold the
      interest of ministers once the Project champions had moved on. Also, the fact that
      the Project was not incremental to regular ministry budgets further reduced
      interest. If it had been possible to decentralize the project steering committee to a
      lower level (perhaps department heads), the amount of money might have been
      enough to gain attention, and built greater ownership. But this would have
      required more work done up front to build ownership for project activities.



   d) In a country and region with increased funding options, the traditional Bank
      project model did not work well. Traditional Bank investment projects have a
      lot of rules and are a lot of work to implement. As European funds with fewer
      strings became more available, the ministries could turn to other sources to fund
      activities (such as IT investment) originally contemplated under the Project and
      the pressure to implement the Bank funded Project grew still less urgent.



   e) Technical assistance projects are inherently difficult to assess, but this fact
      warrants more attention to monitoring and evaluation planning up front.
      This attention was not given during the HCTA preparation, nor during
      implementation, and was a major obstacle in completing the ICR.


   f) Even projects with moderately unsatisfactory results can contain some best
      practices. In the case of the HCTA project, examples include the design of a slim
      PCU, excellent monitoring of procurement and activity implementation status,
      regular convening of workshops with line department personnel to discuss interim
      and final consultant reports, and the Bank's making sure that there was a joint
      handover mission with both incoming and outgoing task managers..

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In addition to producing a Borrower ICR (see Annex 7), both the Ministries of Education
and Labor provided comments on the Bank's draft ICR. In several cases, these
comments and corrections have been incorporated and are reflected in this final version

                                            22
of the ICR document. We are grateful for them. In a few cases, the Bank and Borrower
implementing agencies have a difference of opinion. These differences are detailed as
follows:

   ·   Role of Joint Steering Committee. MOLSAF pointed out that the role of the
       Steering Committee was to approve the general scope and funding level of
       activities through the procurement plan, not to make implementation level
       decisions, and thus the statement in the ICR about the change in Steering
       Committee membership slowing implementation is incorrect, since the Steering
       Committee did continue to meet to perform this function. Nonetheless, it was the
       impression of Bank task managers in working directly with the PCU that the
       difficulty in scheduling ministerial level meetings was a factor in project delays,
       and we have thus let this point stand in the ICR.

   ·   Evaluation of Training under the Project. The MOE and MOLSAF rightly
       point out that training was subject to Bank prior-review, and as such was pre-
       judged as being within project scope. While it was the role of individual task
       managers to approve training activities, it is the role of the ICR to give an overall
       opinion of how well the training funded under the project supported project
       objectives and strategy. Moreover, with regard to evaluation of particular
       training activities, while MOLSAF and MOE did provide detailed information
       regarding number of trainees (see Annex 2 and Borrower ICR), no independent or
       beneficiary assessment (ex post) of the value of such training was presented to the
       Bank (the exception being some discussion of beneficiary assessment of trainings
       contained in early Project Progress Reports).


   ·   Value of Project-funded conversion to Euro campaign. In the discussion of
       the assessment of risk to development outcome, the ICR mentions this activity as
       one that would have probably been done in the absence of project funding, and
       one where institutional learning might have been enhanced had the activity
       incorporated a systematic evaluation. MOLSAF cites this activity as being one
       which did, indeed, develop the skills of a range of MOLSAF staff, and which
       produced interesting innovations, such as a guide for the blind in distinguishing
       EURO coins. The point is well taken, but the original points in the ICR still
       stand. If a systematic evaluation was done, it was not presented to or discussed
       with the Bank, despite requests to provide any and all available evaluation
       information.
   ·   Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance. MOLSAF emphasized that all
       procurement processes followed Bank procedures, including guidelines for
       publication. Whereas the Bank in the final supervision mission noted some
       intentional limitation of competition with regard to a number of small contracts,
       MOLSAF maintains that these contracts were fairly specialized, which in turn
       limited the pool of qualified applicants. The project's fiduciary compliance
       rating, in any case, remains satisfactory.


                                            23
   ·   Overall Assessment of Project and Implementing Agency Performance.
       Both MOLSAF and MOE believe that the overall project development objective
       rating of "moderately unsatisfactory" and the implementing agencies rating of
       "moderately unsatisfactory" are too low. They state that the project contributions
       to both ministries, particularly in the area of human resource management have
       been substantial. While the Borrower's view of the value of a project is of
       enormous importance, the Bank's ICR guidelines specifically charge that the
       project must be evaluated against the original project objectives, unless these have
       been formally revised. It is in this light that the ICR team felt forced to rate the
       project as "moderately unsatisfactory." Similarly, the implementing agency
       rating comprises actions taken over the whole of the project and over the course
       of both administrations, not simply the last two years.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                           24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in EUROs)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
          Components                                          Estimate (Euro
                                    (Euro millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
 Creation of a Policy Capacity
                                              0.95                   1.13             119%
Framework
 Investment in Human Resources                3.20                   2.11             66%
 Building and Upgrading
                                              0.60                   0.73             122%
Institutional Capacity

            Total Baseline Cost               4.75                   3.97
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.09                   0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.13                   0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs              4.97                   3.97
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                   0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.03                   0.025            83%
     Total Financing Required                 5.00                   4.01             80%
 Cancelation at project closing*                                     0.99

*Amount cancelled at closure of project on 10/31/2009 was 985,918.92 (equivalent to US$ 1,275,779.08
based on the exchange rate at project approval - US$1.294 per Euro)



(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (Euro        (Euro      Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              0.00         0.00         .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       5.00           4.01           80%
and Development




                                                25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component




                                26
Component/Subcomponent       Activity/Number             Status                   Amount            Results to date/Output                       Outcome/Assessment
                                                                                  contracted/paid
Component 1: Creation of a
Policy Capacity Framework
Subcomponent 1.1: Inter-
institutional assessment
MOE                          A.1.2 Interinstitutional    Completed contract       89,292 EUR        Report assessing management processes        The head of MOE administration spoke
                             Analysis for the the MOE    with Novitech and                          and the relationships between Ministry       in an interview about realigning
                             ­ Process Map               Slovak Society for                         budgetary and contribution organizations     organizational structure as a result of
                                                         Quality signed Sept                        within the education sector; elaboration     process map; highlighted IT problems
                                                         2008                                       of processing map of inter-relations and     (many different software packages being
                                                                                                    elaboration of concrete proposals for        used, with cost implications);
                                                                                                    steps for rationalization of processes.      participation from within MOE was good
                                                                                                    Report delivered 1/2009.                     (44 people, 2 from each unit) and feels
                                                                                                                                                 that results are sustainable (March 2009)
                             A.1.3 CAF ­ Tool of         Completed contract       62828,55 EUR      Proposal of a benchmarking system, with      CAF methodology had been adopted by
                             permanent Growth of         with Novitech and                          recommended methodology. Report              MOE as early as 2004, but has grown in
                             Quality and Efficiency of   Slovak Society for                         delivered 8/2008.                            acceptance over time ­ currently 19
                             MOE activities -            Quality                                                                                 people on CAF team, Minister appoints,
                             Benchmarking                                                                                                        and is viewed as prestigious. Project
                                                                                                                                                 also allowed training of some members
                                                                                                                                                 of CAF team at EIDA in Switzerland.
                                                                                                                                                 (interviews March 2009)
                             A.1.1. Process map for      Completed contract       69,683 EUR        Initial report, focused on management        In interviews with heads of CAF group,
                             MOE                         with Novitech and                          processes within MOE Report delivered        personnel and administration for MOE,
                                                         Slovak Society for                         8/2007.                                      they talked about work on processing
                                                         Quality                                                                                 map as being a turning point that ended
                                                                                                                                                 up getting staff, who were initially very
                                                                                                                                                 suspicious of process, engaged. See also
                                                                                                                                                 above (March 2009)
                             A.1.4.ii Unified System     Completed contract       43,395 EUR        Proposal of a model of evaluation of         This Model was subsequently used as
                             for Evaluation of Quality   with Slovak Society                        quality management in the education          basis for CAF training (see below),
                             Management for Directly     for Quality                                sector. Feasibility study of the proposed
                             Managed Institutions of                                                model. Report delivered 7/2008.
                             MOE (CAF)


                             A.1.6 Harmonization of      Completed contract       93,183 EUR        Proposal of a directive defining owners      New job descriptions have been
                             Descriptions of Civil       with Deloitte                              of processes, operators of processes, and    incorporated into MOE personnel system
                             Servants positions and      Advisory                                   rights and responsibilities in connection    (Draft Borrower ICR ­ July 23, 2009).
                             competencies with                                                      to the valid MOE processing map.             This was a contract completed under
                             organizational rules and                                               Proposal for creation of information         supervision of the (head of personnel,
                             processes MOE                                                          system within MOE and                        who was also generally positive.
                                                                                                    recommendations for changes in               (interview March 2009)
                                                                                                    organizational regulation.. Report
                                                                                                    delivered 4/2009.


                             A.1.5 Harmonization         Completed contract       97,689 EUR        Proposal to harmonize job descriptions       See above
                             /optimization of            with Deloitte                              of MOE employees. Manual developed
                             organizational rules of     Advisory                                   and training provided to update database
                             MOE with focus on                                                      of job descriptions. Report delivered
                             Process ownership and                                                  4/2009.
                             related responsibility
MOLSAF                       A.1.8 Process Audit of      Contract with Deloitte   29,738,00 EUR     This contract was cut back to 30% of         This task was meant to have been done
                             MOLSAF ­ optimization       Advisory, contracted                       original tasks due to budget pressures.      early in the Project; under previous
                             of organizational           in 2009                                    Completed: analysis of current               Government, decision was made shortly
                             structure                                                              MOLSAF processing map, utilization of        after project approval to do internally
                                                                                                    ICT tools in management processes,           rather than contract out. Why is not
                                                                                                    level of automation of processes and         clear.
                                                                                            27      activities, and elaboration of proposal to   According to Borrower ICR (version
                                                                                                    improve use of ICT tools. Report             Sept. 10, 2009), both the managerial
                                                                                                    delivered 4/2009.                            summary (analyzing current weaknesses
                                                                                                                                                 in existing processes) and ICT
                                                                                                                                                 recommendations are immediately
                                                                                                                                                 useful. There were insufficient funds to
28
Expenses included in this
component that do not really
fall into original project
objectives
                               C.3.2.1: Expert             Completed, 2008 with     13,181,74 EUR   Publicity materials for domestic violence   No available information regarding
                               development of              Alliance of Slovak                       campaign, including posters, brochures,     impact of campaign ­ manager of
                               Information materials for   women                                    and advertisements                          activity was positive about it. (interview
                               Stop violence against                                                                                            March 2009)
                               women campaign
                               C.3.2.2: Printing of        goods                    24,831 EUR      See above                                   See above
                               materials for stop
                               domestic violence
                               campaign
                               C.3.2.2: Distribution and   goods                    21,687 EUR      See above                                   See above
                               placement of posters for
                               stop violence against
                               women campaign



                               C.7.1.2: Development,       Goods 2008, direct       46,086 EUR      .Included distribution of 5,000 brochures   Manager for activity was happy with
                               Production and              contract with National                   in easy to read language to vulnerable      materials but not clear if they were
                               Distribution of             Council of Disabled                      groups...Sept-Dec. 2008.                    market tested. Slovak national bank used
                               information materials on    Citizens                                                                             them, however, and took credit for them.
                               transfer to Euro for                                                                                             (interview March 2009)
                               socially vulnerable
                               groups


                               C.7.1: Supporting           Goods 2008,              44,187 EUR      Printed and distributed 2.9 million         No systematic evaluation, although
                               activities in connection    Redhouse promotion                       leaflets to at risk groups                  manager of activity was pleased with
                               with transfer to euro in                                                                                         results.
                               MOLSAF
                               C.7.1.2: ditto              Shopping, 2008 Grand     12,260 EUR      Printed and distributed 70,000 brochures    See above
                                                           Print Plus




                                                                                             29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                      38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Alberto Rodriguez           Country Sector Coordinator HD    ESCHD
Mary Canning                Lead Education Specialist        ECSHD
Olena Fadyeyeva             Operations Officer               SECPO
Anna Goodman                Program Assistant                ECSH4
Dorota Holzer-Zelazewska    Operations Officer               ECSHD
Katherine H. Hovde          Consultant                       ECSHD
Tobias Linden               Sr Education Spec.               PA9ES
Rohit R. Mehta              Senior Finance Officer           CTRFC
Michael T. Mertaugh         Consultant                       ECSHD
Annie A. Milanzi            Information Specialist           ECSH3
Pierella Paci               Lead Economist                   PRMPR
Claudia M. Pardinas Ocana   Sr Counsel                       LEGEM
Dena Ringold                Senior Economist                 HDNCE
Petra Valastinova           Operations Analyst               ECCSK
Maria V. Vannari            Senior Procurement Specialist    ECSC2
Iwona Warzecha              Sr Financial Management Specia   ECSC3


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                      19                        133.48




                            Total:          19                        133.48
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                       4                         21.92
  FY06                                      21                        101.85
  FY07                                      20                         74.95
  FY08                                      19                         86.71
  FY09                                      10                         65.28*
                            Total:          74                        350.71

*budgeted

                                          39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not applicable.




                                      40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                     41
                       Annex 7. Borrower's ICR




 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

   HUMAN CAPITAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                      on a Loan IBRD-7271SK
                    in Amount of 5 000 000 EUR
                    - the Borrower's Part Report




                 Draft Report ­ background material for
the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family of the Slovak Republic
          and the Ministry of Education of the Slovak Republic

                             August 2009




                                  42
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EU       European Union
HCTA     Human Capital Technical Assistance
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MOE      Ministry of Education of the Slovak Republic
MOF      Ministry of Finance of the Slovak Republic
MOLSAF   Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family of the Slovak Republic
NGO      Non-Governmental Organisation
NLO      National Labour Office
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
SBRA     Social Benefits Reform Administration
SC       Steering Committee for the Project
SIA      Social Insurance Agency
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
TTL      Task Team Leader
WB       World Bank




                                       43
Section I.  Project description, Development Objectives and Performance Indicators
as approveD

I.1.    Loan data
Loan Agreement

Based on the Loan Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Slovak Republic and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development signed on 1 April 2005 in
Washington, Slovakia was awarded Loan number 7271 ­ SK in the amount of 5 million Euro
for Human Capital Technical Assistance Project. Loan Agreement has become effective on
13 April 2005.

Addendum to the Loan Agreement concerning re-allocation of funds for Operating costs was
approved by WB on 24 June 2005.

The Borrower
Ministry of Finance of the Slovak Republic

The Beneficiaries
Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family of the Slovak Republic
Ministry of Education of the Slovak Republic

The Project's Funds

Total 5                        000 000 EUR
MOLSAF                       3 000 000 EUR
MOE                          2 000 000 EUR

Disbursement Categories
Per the Loan Agreement:
                            Goods ­ MOLSAF only                            250 000 EUR
                            Consulting Services                          2 400 000 EUR
                            Trainings and Workshops                      2 300 000 EUR
                            Operating Costs                                 25 000 EUR
                            Front and Fee                                   25 000 EUR

Reallocated Loan Proceeds (approved by the WB on 24 June 2005):
                            Goods ­ MOLSAF only                             250 000 EUR
                            Consulting Services & Trainings and Workshops 4 655 000 EUR
                            Operating Costs                                  70 000 EUR
                            Front and Fee                                    25 000 EUR

The Project's Duration
Start Date:                  13 April 2005
                             (As part of Project negotiations, postponed commencement of
                             implementation at MOE since September 2005 was approved)
Original Closing Date:       30 June 2008
Actual Closing Date:         30 June 2009, approved by WB on 22 May 2008
Grace Period:                1 July ­ 31 October 2009, approved by WB on 11 March 2009

ICR-HCTA Project                             44
I. 2.   Project Development Objective

I. 2.1. Original Project Development Objective
The objective of the Project was to assist the Borrower and mainly project beneficiaries in
modernizing systems of employment, education and social cohesion by developing an
effective policy infrastructure to implement, manage and evaluate employment, education and
social cohesion reforms in the MOLSAF and the MOE.

The project had following objectives, reflected in the individual project components:

    ·   ensuring consistency and sustainability of the project outputs and improving the
        quality of key policy outputs;
    ·   investing in human resources; and
    ·   building and upgrading institutional capacity.

Development of key reforms in Slovak Republic and success of their implementation required
pay attention not only to reached economic results, but also to development of human
resources and their readiness for change. Considerable task in this process has HR
management (personal management) as a decision making process for civil employees
relations.

I. 2.2. Original Key Performance Indicators

 Results Indicators             YR 1                     Y2                      Y3
for Each Component




ICR-HCTA Project                           45
COMPONENT 1
Inter-institutional       System assessment of       First stage of strategy   Second stage of strategy
                          national and sub-          implemented in both       implemented in both
capacity assessed
                          national institutional     sectors.                  sectors.
among MOLSAF and
associated institutions   arrangements
and subordinate           complete.                  50 % of relevant staff 100 % of relevant staff
offices and MOE, and                                 trained in CAF in MOE. trained in CAF in MOE.
associated institution    Strategic plans to
and subordinate           improve roles and
offices                   responsibilities and
                          information flows at
                          all levels in both
                          sectors agreed.
COMPONENT 2
HR Management             New Model of HR            50 % of HR                Daft of package
                          Management                 Management staff          manuals elaborated
system in place in
                          developed,                 trained,
both Ministries
                          Target Group
                                                     HR information system     100 % of policy
                          identified and training    improved                  employees in the target
                          needs identified.          Package of manuals        group directly trained,
                                                     elaborated,
                                                                              100 % of policy
                                                     Criteria for performance employees in the target
                                                     based evaluation of      group on stages and
                                                     employees set up,        internships,

                                                     50 % of policy            100 % of research
                                                     employees in the target   grants allocated.
                                                     group directly trained,

                                                     50 % of policy
                                                     employees in the target
                                                     group on stages and
                                                     internships,

                                                     50 % of research grants
                                                     allocated.
COMPONENT 3
Improved National         Identification of key      Information and           Indicators and
                          data and documentation     documentation             benchmarks identified
Development Plans
                          required for policy        infrastructure required   and used in respective
and key policy            making                     for policy making set     policy papers.
documents                                            up.
Quality and Quantity                                                           Quality of key policy
of internationally        Needs Assessment           Package of manuals        documents increased.
comparable data           completed for civil        elaborated,
improved                  servants engaged in
                          drafting policy            50 % of policy
                          documents                  employees trained on
                                                     making use of manuals,

                                                     50 % of required
                                                     methodological
                                                     materials elaborated.

ICR-HCTA Project                                46
I.2.3. Revised Performance Indicators
During the project implementation the indicators have not been altered.

I. 3.   Project Description

I.3.1. Or iginal Project Components
The project consisted from 3 original components and their objectives were:

Component A: Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework
Establishment of a framework suitable to permit an effective coordination of the different
parts and activities of the Project in the two ministries and associated institutions.

Component A.1:         Inter-institutional Assessment
Assessment of the current inter-institutional arrangements and information flows for policy
making and implementation among two participating ministries and their associated
institutions, and development of a consistent and sustainable strategy to increase technical
capacity for design, implementation and monitoring of the reforms, including
recommendations for MOE to support the implementation of the model quality management
approach (the Common Assessment Framework 2002).

Component A.2:          Project Coordination and Sustainability
Strengthening of the Project coordination mechanisms and the Project implementation
structure, including those to ensure the effectiveness of policy coordination and dissemination
mechanisms among the two beneficiaries, associated institutions and regional level
administration offices, and support to the strategies to mainstream and ensure the
sustainability of reforms.

Component B: Investment in Human Resources
Improvement in the quality of human resources available for policy making and
implementation in the two beneficiaries and associated institutions, through capacity building
of the existing staff supplemented by strategic staff reallocation and targeted recruitment, to
analyse policy options and the impact of ongoing reforms.

Component B.1: Improvement of Human Resource Management Systems
Development of the institutional capacity of MOLSAF and MOE to build a quality human
resource management system, including the appropriate setting of standards and the
improvement of the efficiency of the human resource management, through the provision of
consultants' services to analyse the current human resource management situation in
MOLSAF and MOE and the identification of specific strengths and weaknesses in each
ministry, with a focus on: (i) the development of training and staff reallocation plans,
proposals and detailed recommendations for the improvement of the human resource
management systems; (ii) the elaboration of detailed proposals for the development and
training of human resource managers and staff; (iii) improved information systems; (iv) the
development of best practice models and human resource manuals; (v) needs assessment
training and other appropriate training; (vi) the definition of performance-based assessment
criteria suitable for each Ministry; and (vii) proposals for detailed criteria for performance-
based evaluation of employees and to mainstream pilots throughout the system at local as well
as at national level.



ICR-HCTA Project                            47
Component B.2. Staff Training and Development
Identification of training and development needs and opportunities for individuals who will
work on policy issues within MOLSAF and MOE and implementation of training plans aimed
at: (i) creating capacity through training, internships, scholarships, capacity building grants
and research grants to develop and strengthen skills and knowledge of civil servants in the
MOLSAF, MOE, associated institutions involved in social and educational policy­making
and, where feasible, regional and municipal governments and sub national offices of both
ministries; (ii) enhancing policy capacity through training and exposure to other policy
environments, including the building of networks with bilateral and multilateral partners and
the acquisition of know-how from leading European Union states through short-term training
and "stages" abroad, seminars and conferences, joint research projects, and peer reviews; and
(iii) creating instruments to attract new researchers and policy analysts to enter the field
through scholarship and research grants, all through the provision of consultants' services,
entailing: (i) the analysis of local and international specialized research and training
institutions and think-tanks; (ii) the identification of institutions with working places able to
provide follow-up training, of policy employees ready and suitable to acquire skills in these
working places, and of suitable topics and suggestions for workshops; (iii) the development
of training plans for policy employees suitable for the needs of both ministries and other
policy employees in the social sphere and of informal mechanisms for policy discussion; (iv)
the development of informal mechanisms for policy discussion, making use of expertise
outside the relevant ministries; and (v) the implementation of all training and development
activities identified in the aforementioned training and development plans.

Component C: Building and Upgrading Institutional Capacity
Creation and implementation of an integrated policy management system to structure and
guide the various steps in the policy cycle in both the two participating ministries and in the
complementary network of institutions, through the development of the capacity to produce
high quality policy outputs in priority areas, thereby ensuring the availability of improved
statistical and monitoring information for policy makers in the field of employment,
education and social cohesion.

Component C.1: Policy Formulation
Development of effective mechanisms to improve policy making, including the development
of important national social and educational action plans and reports, through the provision of
training and consultants' services in cooperation with the MOLSAF and the MOE: (i) to
analyse existing procedures for the preparation of policy papers in each Ministry; (ii) to
prepare manuals to improve the quality of the drafting process for policy papers and provide
training to policy employees; (iii) to refine and revise the documentation on the basis of the
clients' feedback; and (iv) to make recommendations to optimise existing procedures for
drafting policy papers.

Component C.2: Improve Information Base For Social Policy Formulation, Monitoring and
Evaluation
Improvement of the quality and quantity of internationally comparable data available to
policy makers in both MOLSAF and MOE and to develop social policy monitoring indicators,
through (a) the carrying out of a review of existing state of libraries and documentation
centres; (b) the carrying out of a review of the nature and availability of relevant statistical
data, with a view to propose a plan to improve the timely supply of the data and other
information for needed for the formulation, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation of social
and education sectors policies: (i) to recommend the necessary steps to improve the quality of
the available data by increasing the coverage of the vulnerable groups and broaden the

ICR-HCTA Project                             48
coverage of non-income dimensions of poverty; (ii) to revise and extend the list of indicators
and benchmarks designed for policies in the social and educational sectors; (iii) to analyse
existing statistical data and make recommendations about what specific data should be
provided for policy makers in the social and educational sectors; (iv) to recommend
appropriate relevant sources for social and education sector policy makers, including books,
periodicals, databases and digital sources, indicating their costs; (v) to recommend cost-
effective improvements to the information-documentation centres for policy making in both
respective ministries; and (vi) to identify data training needs of relevant employees and
sources of appropriate training; and (c) the implementation of the recommendations
identified in the aforementioned reviews.


I.3.2. Revised Project Components
In the course of the Project, its components were not revised but as the result of early
parliamentary elections in 2006 year, the change of the Government and subsequent changes
of top management of the project beneficiaries, several planned actions of Part B (e.g.
improvement of information systems, capacity building grants and research grants to develop
and strengthen skills and knowledge of civil servants) and Part C (e.g. development of
effective mechanisms to improve policy making, the carrying out of a review of existing state
of libraries and documentation centres) were not implemented. These originally planned
activities were financed either from funds outside the Project, or have not been undertaken at
all.




ICR-HCTA Project                           49
SECTION II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - GENERAL INFORMATION

II.1. Important changes from the perspective of the Project beneficiaries
The implementation itself was influenced by several factors:

    -   Early parliamentary election in June 2006 following by replacement of Ministers with
        both final beneficiaries; at that point, the Project was subject to revision and
        implementation of several activities was delayed or interrupted, moreover decision
        about early Parliamentary elections was announced. This decision caused:

            o at MOLSAF ­ suspension of contracts signing, i.e. the processes related to
              procurement were taken at MOLSAF up to the moment when contracts were
              supposed to be signed, since signing had to wait for the new Ministry
              management.
            o at MOE ­ suspension of tendering.

    -   Political changes - after the parliamentary election in June 2006 a new Government
        was appointed in July 2006. The new Government announced changes in the state
        social policy oriented at the standard social policy in the European Union.

    -   Changes in institutional and personal arrangements of the project implementation (as
        well as the WB and on the borrower side (Annex 1 Summary Institutional
        Arrangements 2005 - 2009).

    -   Transfer of the Slovak Republic to EURO currency (from 1 January 2009), which
        affected mainly activities of MOLSAF.

Above changes have impact to the Project implementation ­ delay in implementation of
project activities and therefore the Borrower prepared request for prolongation of project
duration and for grace period. Both requests were approved by the WB.
In second half of 2008 year, world economic crisis negatively influenced implementation of
MOLSAF project activities. In beginning of 2009 year, MOLSAF decided to terminate
several contracts and cancel the procurement of further project activities.

In general, the project implementation and related management had 2 phases:

    -   since the Loan Agreement signature in April 2005 till the decision of previous
        government about early parliamentary election in January 2006,
    -   after the parliamentary election in June 2006.

II.2. T he Project management
As mentioned above, the project and accordingly its management were affected by several
changes, one of those were also institutional and personal changes (detailed information is
presented in Annex 1 Summary Institutional Arrangements 2005 - 2009).

    o On the basis of the Loan Agreement LA7271 for the Human Capital Technical
      Assistance - HCTA Project, the overall responsibility for the Project implementation
      was vested with MOLSAF, which in January 2005 appointed a Project Director with
      responsibilities for the implementation and overall coordination of the Project and the
      technical oversight of the Project activities related to MOLSAF to work closely with
      the State Secretary of MOLSAF.


ICR-HCTA Project                           50
        With reference to the changes in the organizational structure of MOLSAF, which
        came into force in October 2006, the Minister of Labour, Social Affairs and Family as
        the person in charge of the World Bank Projects instead of the State Secretary of
        MOLSAF, in November 2006 terminated the contract with the Project Director. In
        March 2007, based on approval of new SC, responsibility for the overall coordination
        of the Project was given to the PCU Director and the technical oversight of the Project
        activities for both ministries from July 2007 was given to the former HCTA Project
        Coordinator for MOE.

    o As a support to the Project Director, out of the Loan Agreement Institutional
      Arrangements, contracting of the Assistant to the HCTA Project Director was
      approved in 2005 year together with establishment of the HCTA Project Secretariat.
      In October 2006, based on the new organizational structure of MOLSAF, the HCTA
      Project Secretariat became a part of the World Bank Projects Coordination Unit
      (further on "PCU") at MOLSAF.

    o In May 2005, the MOE appointed the Project Coordinator responsible for technical
      oversight of the Project activities related to MOE to work closely with the Head of
      Administration of MOE.

        In July 2007, based on new organisational structure for the Project approved by the SC
        in March 2007, the HCTA Project Coordinator for MOE became the HCTA Project
        Coordinator for both ministries.

    o The conceptual supervision and technical management of the Project as a whole was
      given to the Steering Committee composed of representatives of the participating
      beneficiary institutions and MOF SR, in initial period of the Project also from the
      PCU. The Steering Committee was chaired at the beginning by the State Secretary of
      MOLSAF, from 2006 by the Minister of Labour, Social Affairs and Family.
      The last meeting of the HCTA Project Steering Committee chaired by the State
      Secretary of MOLSAF took place on March 2006.

        In March 2007 was held the first meeting of the Joint Steering Committee for the
        World Bank Projects Social Benefits Reform Administration (Project SBRA) and
        Human Capital Technical Assistance (Project HCTA) chaired by the Minister of
        labour, social affairs and family on which the new director of World Bank Projects
        Project Coordination Unit at MOLSAF was introduced and new organizational
        structure for management and implementation of the World Bank Projects ­ including
        the HCTA Project were approved.

        In October 2008, after completion of the Social Benefits Reform Administration
        Project implemented by MOLSAF, the Steering Committee was renamed from
        "Joint Steering Committee of the World Bank Projects Social Benefits Reform
        Administration Project and Human Capital Technical Assistance" to the "Steering
        Committee of the Human Capital Technical Assistance Project (HCTA)".

    o The Project Coordination Unit (PCU): Functions of procurement and financial
      management for the project were ensured in accordance with the Loan Agreement
      arrangements the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the Social Benefit Reform
      Assistance Project ­ SBRA (Loan Agreement No.7098-SK) constituted, based on the
      Resolution of the Government of the SR No. 328, of 11 April 2001, organisationally


ICR-HCTA Project                            51
        incorporated in the structure of the MOLSAF as a unit directly managed by the
        Minister. PCU was responsible for planning, coordination and monitoring of all
        activities financed under the SBRA and HCTA Projects, procurement and compliance
        with procurement procedures in accordance with the procedures of the World Bank,
        financial management and monitoring of expenditures and costs of the project.
        Detailed information about changes at PCU positions is in Annex 1 - Summary
        Institutional Arrangements.

    o The Contract Coordinators were nominated by each beneficiary to ensure
      coordination of respective project activities and achievement of required quality of
      outputs in accordance with beneficiaries needs.

    o The Operating Costs for implementation of the Project activities were covered by
      MOLSAF. The amount was spent for the costs of the HCTA Project Financial
      Manager (who was an employee and could not work on a consultant contractual basis,
      2005-2007), HCTA office equipment, translation services and advertisements of the
      calls for procurement. Final amount 74 056,30 EUR used for the operating costs was
      higher than the one approved in the Loan Agreement (25 000 EUR). Increase of the
      allocated Operating costs was approved by WB on 24 June 2005.


II.3. P rocurement
Responsibility for all procurement under the project rested with the Ministry of Labour,
Social Affairs and Family of the Slovak Republic through the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). The PCU was responsible for project day-to-day administration, including
procurement. Procurement and selection of consultants was carried out according to the
World Bank procurement procedures and guidelines (2004 version) and in accordance with
the approved Project Procurement Plan.

Procurement Plan
Procurement Plan was done and upgraded on regular bases, accepted by the project
beneficiaries (MOLSAF and MOE) and approved by WB. All project activities were
performed strictly according to Procurement plan.




ICR-HCTA Project                          52
SECTION III. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT AND THEIR BRIEF
ASSESMENT

The Project was implemented in the course of four years in period of April 2005 ­ June 2009,
original project duration was 3 years.

MOLSAF started with implementation of activities in April 2005.

MOE ­ as was agreed during the negotiations ­ started with implementation of its activities in
September 2005.

Original Procurement Plan, approved in the Loan Agreement, was shortly after signature
modified and more activities were incorporated into the project. The plan included originally
22 activities (in general, several activities with large allocated amount). Finally, cca 85
activities (excl. business study trips) were implemented.

Within the Project duration:

    o MOLSAF implemented 60 project activities and 121 representatives of MOLSAF and
       its institutions participated in 26 events - conferences, seminars, trainings abroad
       organised by international institutions.
       Furthermore, 6 conferences for 1 171 participants were organised in Slovakia and 820
       representatives of the Ministry and its institutions were trained within 10 assignments
       in Slovakia.

        Within the Project, 15 analyses/assessments were elaborated, prepared 9 manuals and
        methodologies and 9 strategies, implementation plans or recommendations for
        improvement. (Information about adopted and developed outputs by the Ministry is in
        Section V.)

    o MOE implemented 24 project activities and 87 representatives of MOE and its
       institutions participated in 26 events - conferences, seminars, trainings abroad
       organised by international institutions.
        One conference for 150 participants was held in Bratislava, Slovakia and 248
        representatives of the Ministry, its institutions and universities were trained within 7
        assignments in Slovakia.

        Within, 11 analyses/assessments were elaborated, prepared 13 manuals and
        methodologies, and 9 strategies, implementation plans or recommendations for
        improvement. Information about adopted and developed outputs by the Ministry is in
        Section V.

About preparation and implementation of the project activities, the Minister of labour, social
affairs and family and its top management were regularly informed by the PCU. The Minister
of Education with his top management were informed by the Head of Administration and
Head of Cabinet of Minister, to whom information were provided by the PCU and the HCTA
Project Coordinator.




ICR-HCTA Project                            53
Monitoring and evaluation of implemented activities was carried by the PCU Director and the
HCTA project coordinator. Technical coordination was ensured by the respective employees
of the Project beneficiaries, who were assigned as the contract coordinators, the beneficiaries´
(other expert institutions / public /NGOs, etc. where applicable) comments were provided to
be included in the final activities´ outputs.

At MOE, all outputs of implemented project assignments were published on intranet.

Most of the project activities were performed according to planned scope and schedule
(procurement plan) and all important targeted goals are achieved.


Both project beneficiaries assessed reached outputs.



The MOLSAF until now used/started with implementation of outputs of contracts:

        -   B.2.1.3. Education Policy in Sector of Labour, Social Affairs and Family -
            analyses of non formal education ­ outputs of this project have been amended to
            the conditions of the MOLSAF SR, added up to framework action education plans
            of the sector labor, social affairs and family and also about a time schedule of tasks
            which are directly related with the fulfillment of education intentions. A "Working
            Group for the securing of the fulfillment of tasks resulting from the Educational
            policy in the Sector of labor, Social Affairs SR" was created, and which is
            coordinating the fulfillment of concrete tasks out of the time schedule of work and
            as well as is coordinating the fulfillment of tasks resulting from the Educational
            Policy. The Policy was approved by the top management of the MOLSAF SR in
            June, 2009, published at the intranet.

        -   B.2.2.3. Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies
            (PIAAC) project) ­ data used by the respective department.

        -   B.2.3.3. Assistance in Improvement of Institutional and Personal Capacity for
            Social Inclusion Services ­ outputs approved by the MOLSAF top management,
            recommended procedures used by the sectoral institutions.

        -   B.2.3.4.-I. Strategy for Long-term Development of Centre for International Legal
            Protection of Children and Youth ­ analyses and recommendations used by the
            Centre management (further development).

        -   C.2.1.1. Design of Methodology on Labour Market Data and Indicators,
            C.2.1.2.1. Advising on Concept of Absolute Poverty Line in Slovakia & 2.
            Application of the Concept of Absolute Poverty Line, C.2.1.3.1.Evaluation &
            Monitoring of Programmes and Institutions within the Employment and Social
            Affairs - Design of System of Indicators, C.2.1.3.-II.Evaluation & Monitoring of
            Programmes and Institutions within the Employment and Social Affairs - Design
            of Human Resource Strategy of the Evaluation and Monitoring Centre - the
            outputs elaborated in early phase of the HCTA Project have been used by the


ICR-HCTA Project                             54
            expert departments of MOLSAF and governmental institutions (Statistic Office,
            MOF).
        -   C.2.1.3.3. Design of System of Evaluation of Institutions Directly Subordinated to
            MOLSAF, and of MOLSAF´s Programs & Initiatives - recommendations used for
            preparation of new calls for proposals in area of labour, social affairs and family
            with stress on the employment policy to ensure improvements in the current
            Programming Period.

        -   C.4.&5. System of electronic Registration of incoming and outgoing
            Correspondence of the Centre of International Protection of Children and Youth,
            System of automatic reports of the registry and document management of the
            Centre of International Protection of Children and Youth and System for storage
            and processing of data on incoming and outgoing payments of alimony ­ all
            designed systems are used by the Centre.

        -   A.1.8. Process Audit of the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Family of the
            Slovak Republic ­ optimisation of the organisation structure. Within the project a
            Proposal for the improvement of the utilization of ICT tools within the
            management of processes and an Analyses of utilization of ICT tools within
            management of processes and an Analyses of the level of automatization of
            processes and activities have been developed. These outputs will be utilized by the
            Department       of   information-communication        technologies      within   the
            implementation of the Strategy of the informatization of the sector. Further a
            Analyses of the present process map of the MOLSAF SR was elaborated. But this
            part of the project was not finalized by the elaboration of the actual Process map of
            the MOLSAF SR. The analyses would be used consequently, if the MOLSAF SR
            would be capable to obtain financial means for a new project focused on the
            elaboration of a process map. Added value within the elaboration of the outputs
            was the fact that the project includes on the demand of the client also the part
            "Managerial summary", in which the detected defaults in the present processes of
            the MOLSAF SR are described and the recommendations for their solution.

        -   A.1.9. Unified System for Evaluation of Quality Management for Sector of
            Labour, Social Affairs and Family ­ analysis and identification of optimal model,
            MOLSAF.

            On the base of the outputs from the project a "Unified System for Evaluation of
            Quality Management for the Sector of labor, Social Affairs and Family SR" is the
            proposed implementation of the CAF model for target groups, which are all
            organizational components of the sector of labor, social affairs and family
            including the MOLSAF SR. Within the implementation would be utilized all
            documents elaborated within the frame of the mentioned project of the World
            Bank.

        -   B.1.1.-II.A Human Resources Development for MOLSAF, Central Office of
            LSAF and National Labour Inspectorate.

            As of the reason of financial crisis the project was not finalized. Within the project
            strategic goals in the area of human resources in the Sector of labor, social affairs
            and family SR have been elaborated, which however haven't been elaborated into
            final form. The Department of the Development of Human Resources will utilize


ICR-HCTA Project                             55
            the elaborated documents in such a way that he would ongoing search appropriate
            forms of the finalization of the Strategy and her implementation within the
            conditions of the MOLSAF SR, CLSAF and NLI.

As lot of MOLSAF implemented activities responded to actual needs of sector and social
policies ­ mainly transfer to EURO currency, activities as conferences, preparation and
distribution of leaflets, brochures etc. have had positive impact to development of MOLSAF
capacity.

As of the level of the Department of the Development of Human Resources, which was
created at the final phase of the realization of the HCTA Projects is the realization of projects
from the area of human resources assessed very positively (mainly as regards the projects
B.2.1.3., A.1.8., A.1.9., B.1.1.-II.A ). A positive element is mainly the fact that the
Department of the Development of Human Resources within his competencies could in future
give a guarantee the implementation of the outputs of some of the projects. In communication
with supplier institutions was mainly contribution evident in the fact that the supplier have
been frequently cheerful also above the framework of the conditions of the assignment to
react with concrete steps, resp. with the elaboration of the required documents in connection
to the actual impulses, which have been occurring within the realization itself.

In case of the MOE, which activities were oriented to systematic development and
improvement of HR management, system of quality management and benchmarking and
development of capacity for implementation of support science and technology with regard to
EUR funds and improvement of data collection.

Already started implementation of elaborated outputs/recommendations of following
assignments:

-   B.2.6 Establishment of Transfer Technology Centres, Start Up, Spin Off, Centres of
    Excellence outputs were used for preparation of:

        o call for proposals for Centres of Excellence to be covered by operating programme
          Research and Development (EU Structural Funds), to be implemented by MOE
          agency for structural funds.
        o document "Draft of new Model of Financing of Science and Technology in the
          Slovak Republic", which will be submitted for governmental session in August
          2009.

-   B.1.4. Set up of Analysis of Research and Development Potential 2 main outputs are
    implemented:

        o Updated statistical indicators within statistical enquiry of research and
          development potential preformed by MOE and within statistical enquiry in science
          and technology performed by the Statistical Office of the Slovak Republic,
        o New methodology for elaboration of annual report about status of science and
          research in the Slovak Republic and its comparison with foreign countries.

-   B.2.4. Assistance in Development of Grant Schemes:
       o Proposed recommendations for reform of support to science and research by
           application of multi annual programming and project management cycle and log



ICR-HCTA Project                             56
           frame matrix as specifies in Strategic plan and sift of support orientation from fund
           disbursement to goal-directed support of science and research are implemented.
         o Institutional arrangements for management and implementation of programmes for
           support of research and development covered by the state budget were also
           modified in accordance with approved Strategic plan and proposed responsibility
           or management, implementations, monitoring, financial control and audit.

-     B.2.4.-II. Assistance in Development of Grant Schemes for the Ministry of Education SR
      to support Students, Graduates and Post-Graduates in Area of Research and Development:

         o Proposed National Grant Scheme for Support of Students, Graduates and Post-
           Graduates in Area of Research and Development will be implemented in full in
           accordance with elaborated Implementation manual. Its first phase for selected
           range of science areas is prepared for 2009.

-     C.2.3. Design of Quality Assurance System of Research and Development Outputs, each
      of elaborated outputs is used.

-     C.2.3.II. Characteristics of System Measures in Area of Incentives in Research and
      Development and their Influence on Economics in Entrepreneurial Organisations of
      Research and Development.

         o Elaborated outputs at present time are used for preparation of relevant legislation,
           methodology and criteria for evaluation of applications for stimulus (in accordance
           with new act about stimulus for research and development No 185/2009).
         o In the future, output concerning assessment of impacts on the economy of the
           Slovak Republic will be used.

-     A.1.6. Harmonization of Descriptions of civil Servants Positions and Competences with
      organization Rules and defined Processes ­ elaborated descriptions are in present time
      incorporated into MOE personnel system CASE-PAM.

-     Elaborated process maps are fully used and further developed by MOE.

Rest of outputs of completed assignments in now assessed by top managers of MOE


III.1 Implemented Activities by the Project Components and Beneficiaries

Part A. Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework

This means the establishment of a framework suitable to permit an effective coordination of
the different parts and activities of the Project in the two ministries and associated institutions.

Part A.1:          Inter-institutional Assessment

MOLSAF
No.            Activity Title          Objective/Key             Key Results        Disbursed
                                         Outputs                                  Amount in EUR
A.1.8.    Process Audit of the     Restricted realisation to - improved                29 738,00
          Ministry of Labour,      30% of original           information about


ICR-HCTA Project                               57
         Social Affairs and        contract tasks.            actual status of
         Family of the Slovak      Analyses of the present    MOLSAF Process
         Republic ­ optimisation   process map of the         map and steps to be
         of the organisation       MOLSAF SR,                 done for its
         structure                 utilization of ICT tools   improvement
                                   in the management of
                                   processes, level of
                                   automatisation of
                                   processes and activities
                                   and a proposal of a plan
                                   of improvement of ICT
                                   tools
                                   delivered in 4/2009 to
                                   Department of Human
                                   Resources MOSLAF,
                                   further used by
                                   MOLSAF.
A.1.9.   Unified System for        Analysis of the present    Identified model for           88 500,00
         Evaluation of Quality     system of management       quality management
         Management for Sector in the sector of labour,       in the sector of labour,
         of Labour, Social         social affairs and         social affairs and
         Affairs and Family ­      family.                    family SR
         analysis and              Proposal of an optimal
         identification of optimal model of quality
         model, MOLSAF             management in the
                                   sector of labour, social
                                   affairs and family SR
                                   delivered in 4-6/2009 to
                                   Department of Human
                                   Resources MOSLAF,
                                   further used by
                                   MOLSAF.

MOE
No.    Activity Title and Main          Objective/Key               Key Results            Disbursed
       Outputs                            Outputs                                        Amount in EUR
A.1.1. Process Map for MOE         Analysis of status quo     Elaborated Process              69 683,46
                                   and identification of      map adopted, further
                                   processes at MOE &         developed by MOE
                                   Plan for Improvement
                                   of the Performance
                                   Measuring. Plan for
                                   improvement of ICT
                                   exploitation in
                                   processes management.
                                   Recommendations for
                                   objectification and
                                   rationalization of MOE
                                   processes,
                                   delivered in 8/2007 ­
                                   1/2008 to
                                   Administrative Office of
                                   MOE, further used and
                                   updated by MOE
A.1.2. Inter-institutional         Analyses of the present    Elaborated Process              89 175,00


ICR-HCTA Project                               58
        Analysis for the Ministry   status and identification   map adopted and used
        of Education of the         of processes within
        Slovak Republic ­           inter-institutional
        Process Map                 relationships in the
                                    education sector.
                                    Elaboration of Process
                                    map of inter-
                                    institutional
                                    relationships in the
                                    education sector.
                                    Recommendations for
                                    the objectification and
                                    rationalization of
                                    processes within inter-
                                    institutional
                                    relationships in the
                                    education sector,
                                    delivered in 1 - 4/ 2009
                                    to Administrative Office
                                    of MOE, further used
                                    by MOE
A.1.3. CAF - Tool of permanent      Proposal of a               Elaborated              62 828,55
       Growth of Quality and        benchmarking system.        Benchmarking system
       Efficiency of MOE            Application of the          Relevant employees
       Activities-Benchmarking      methodological steps of     trained
                                    benchmarking
                                    Seminar for the
                                    creation of ,,best
                                    practices",
                                    delivered in 8/2008 - 2/
                                    2009 to Personnel
                                    Office of MOE have
                                    been used by MOE.
A.1.4. Unified System for           Proposal of a Model of      Model of Evaluation     43 395,08
- II   Evaluation of Quality of     Evaluation of Quality       of Quality
       Management for Directly      Management in the           Management in the
       Managed Institutions of      educational sector.         educational sector
       MOE                          Feasibility Study of the
                                    Proposed Model of
                                    Management Quality
                                    Evaluation in the
                                    Educational Sector,
                                    delivered in 7 -10/ 2008
                                    to Organisational
                                    Department of MOE
                                    have been used by
                                    MOE.
A.1.5. Harmonization                Proposal of a directive     MOE organizational      97 689,00
       /Optimalisation of           defining the owners of      rules harmonized with
       Organization Rules of the    the processes, operator     the defined ownership
       MOE with Focus to            of the processes, their     of processes and
       Processes Ownership and      responsibilities and        responsibility
       related Responsibility       rights in connection to
                                    the valid process map at
                                    the MOE. Proposal for
                                    creation of a complex

ICR-HCTA Project                               59
                               information system of
                               the MOE on a
                               processing base
                               including
                               recommendations of
                               software tools.
                               Proposal of the
                               recommendation for
                               changes of the
                               organization regulation
                               at the MOE,
                               delivered in 4-6/ 2009
                               to Personnel
                               Department of MOE
                               further used by MOE.
A.1.6. Harmonization of        Harmonization of                Elaborated                    93 183,00
       Descriptions of civil   descriptions of                 descriptions
       Servants Positions and  positions of state-             incorporated into
       Competences with        employee positions at           MOE personnel
       organization Rules and  the MOE.                        system CASE-PAM
       defined Processes - MOE Database of description         (follow-up paid by
                               of activities of state-         MOE),
                               employee positions.
                               Manual and training to          Elaborated manual
                               the database (register)         and MOE staff trained
                               of descriptions of
                               activities of state-
                               employee positions,
                               delivered in 4-6/ 2009
                               to Personnel
                               Department of MOE
                               further used by MOE
                               and are incorporated in
                               existing software

Part A.2:          Project Coordination and Sustainability

MOLSAF
No.      Activity Title                 Objective/Key               Key Results           Disbursed
                                          Outputs                                       Amount in EUR
A.2.3.1 Ad hoc Consultant on        Ad hoc consultancy to      drafted TORs and               4 000,00
        Assignments on              assist in preparation of   provided assistance to
        Investment in HR            Terms of Reference for     HCTA Project
                                    assignments within         Director
                                    HCTA Project, in
                                    preparation of criteria
                                    for selection of
                                    consultants, in
                                    evaluation and
                                    monitoring the
                                    implementation of the
                                    assignments
                                    provided in 5 - 12/2005
                                    to HCTA Project
                                    Director have been


ICR-HCTA Project                               60
                                 used by MOLSAF for
                                 the project activities.
A.2.3.2. Ad hoc consulting on    Ad hoc consultancy to       drafted TORs and          1 650,00
         Assignments on          assist in preparation of    provided assistance to
         Investment in Human     Terms of Reference for      HCTA Project
         Resources, 2006-7 yrs   assignments within          Director.
                                 HCTA Project, in
                                 preparation of criteria
                                 for selection of
                                 consultants, in
                                 evaluation and
                                 monitoring the
                                 implementation of the
                                 assignments
                                 provided in 2-11/2006
                                 to HCTA Project
                                 Director have been
                                 used by MOLSAF for
                                 the project activities.
A.2.3.3. Ad-hoc Consultant in    Assistance in               provided assistance to    2 159,00
         Issues of Social        preparation of draft        MOLSAF (the cabinet
         Network Policy,         proposals and strategies    of Minister and
         Disadvantaged and       for creation of politics    Administration
         Marginalized Groups,    with NGOs,                  Office)
         and Cooperation with    marginalized groups
         NGOs                    and groups endangered
                                 by social exclusion.
                                 Assistance in
                                 preparation of strategy
                                 of employment policy
                                 in the Slovak Republic.
                                 Assistance in designs of
                                 research activities of
                                 MOLSAF projects.
                                 Independent expert
                                 consultancy regarding
                                 the assistance to
                                 marginalized groups
                                 and groups endangered
                                 by social exclusion
                                 Realisation cancelled in
                                 9/2007 by MOLSAF
                                 because the planned
                                 project activities were
                                 not oriented to the
                                 issues in consultant's
                                 tasks
                                 Assistance provided in
                                 1-8/2007 to MOLSAF
                                 (the cabinet of Minister,
                                 Administration Office)
A.2.4.1. HCTA Project Director   Overall Project              Provided assistance     47 413,00
                                 coordination.               in terms of contract
                                 Coordination and            (3/2005-11/2006)
                                 technical oversight of
                                 the MOLSAF part of

ICR-HCTA Project                            61
                                  the project (3/2005-
                                  11/2006)
A.2.4.2. Assistant to HCTA        Assistance to overall     Provided assistance in   18 952,00
         Project Director         Project coordination      terms of contract
                                  (3/2005-12/2006)          (3/2005-12/2006)
A.2.4.3. Project Management       Assistance to overall     Provided assistance in   15 392,00
         Assistant to Project     Project coordination      terms of contract
         Coordination Unit -for   (7/2007-6/2009)           (7/2007-6/2009)
         HCTA project
A.2.4.4. Financial Manager to     Financial management      Provided assistance in   25 921,00
         the Project Coordination services, shared with     terms of contract
         Unit                     the Ministry of Health    (1/2008-6/2009)
                                  of the Slovak Republic
                                  (1/2008-6/2009)
A.2.6.1. HCTA Procurement         Procurement specialist    Provided assistance in   13 032,00
         Specialist               shared with PCU for       terms of contract
                                  SBRA Project (2/2005-     (2/2005-10/2006)
                                  10/2006)
A.2.6.2. Procurement Consultant Procurement specialist      Provided assistance in   19 646,00
         for HCTA Project         shared with PCU for       terms of contract
                                  SBRA Project (11/2006     (11/2006 ­ 12/2007)
                                  ­ 12/2007)
A.2.6.3. Director of the PCU and Management and             Provided assistance in   56 326,00
         PCU Procurement          administration of the     terms of contract
         Specialist               PCU. Procurement          (1/2008-6/2009)
                                  management of the
                                  Project activities
                                  (1/2008-6/2009)
A.2.7. Workshops and              N/A                       Recovered direct         21 931,00
         Discussion Forums                                  costs for workshops,
         (direct costs)                                     meetings in 2006
                                                            managed by HCTA
                                                            Project Director &
                                                            Secretariat
A.2.7.-   Moderator for           Facilitator for the       Provided assistance in     424,00
1.        "Workshop on toolkits   Workshop ­                terms of contract
          for HR managers and     moderating workshop,
          line managers from      in 4/2006 to HCTA
          social affairs and      Project Director and
          employment sector       MOLSAF
          (April 4, 2006)
A.2.7.-   Ad Hoc Legal Advisor    Legal advisory services   Provided assistance in     196,00
0.5&6.                            under applicable Slovak   terms of contract in
                                  legislation: Legal        10/2005 - 12/2006 to
                                  services related to the   HCTA Project
                                  long-distance learning,   Director for the
                                  Legal services related    project activities.
                                  to "secondments" at
                                  OECD, other Legal
                                  services needed for
                                  HCTA Project (beyond
                                  the scope of work of
                                  the MOLSAF and
                                  MOE lawyers)
                                  provided in 10/2005 -
                                  12/2006 to HCTA

ICR-HCTA Project                             62
                                  Project Director - used
                                  by MOLSAF for the
                                  project activities.
A.2.7.-   Logistic Coordinator of Overall logistics          Effective conference     31 198,00
4.        "Reconciliation of Work coordination of the
          and Family Life with    event - logistic
          Emphasis on Care        coordination
          Services" International Reimbursement of
          Conference, 5/2006,     direct costs of the
          Bratislava              conference

A.2.7.- Logistic Coordinator for Coordination of             Effective 6              27 228,00
5 techs Conferences in 2007-     logistics, technical        conferences / events
        2008                     services and activities     in 5/2007-6/2008
                                 relating to the
                                 conferences organised
                                 by MOLSAF
                                 Reimbursement of
                                 direct costs of the
                                 conferences
A.2.7.- Reimbursement of direct Orientation towards          Reimbursed direct        13 904,00
5 soe   costs of conference      the support of              costs of the
        "Management Pro -        welcoming employers,        conference
        Gender and Pro- Family examples of good              (124 participants)
        Relationships" ­ 15 May practice from abroad
        2008, Bratislava         as well as from             Publication of a
                                 domestic companies,         compendium and
                                 handing over of             press conference,
                                 appraisals ,,Employer to    which was a part of
                                 be welcomed by the          the conference
                                 family" by Mrs.
                                 Minister
A.2.7.- Training on prevention 4 training cycles             121 persons trained in    4 785,00
6. cons and elimination of       (5/2007 ­ 9/2007)           area of domestic
        violence against women focused on domestic           violence elimination
        for employees of         violence elimination        in 4 training cycles
        Offices of Labour,       and on its specific parts   (5/2007 ­ 9/2007)
        Social Affairs and       ­ trainings for Offices
        Family, departments of of Labour, Social
        Social Affairs and       Affairs and Family
        Family                   employees, for the
                                 employees of Social -
                                 Legal Protection of
                                 Children and Social
                                 Probation departments
A.2.8. Project Audit (jointly    Audit of the HCTA           Audit reports            25 623,00
        w/Social Benefits        Project (for period         delivered to
        Reform administration    2005--2009)                 MOLSAF, forwarded
        Project) 3-year contract                             to WB
A.2.10. Logistic Coordinator for Coordination of             Effective 2              19 278,00
tech    Conferences in February logistics, technical         conferences in 2/2009
        ­ May 2009               services and activities     and 5/2009.
                                 relating to the
                                 conferences organised
                                 by MOLSAF


ICR-HCTA Project                              63
MOE
No.        Activity Title               Objective/Key              Key Results         Disbursed
                                          Outputs                                    Amount in EUR
A.2.5.1. HCTA Project               Coordination and          Provided assistance in    120 380,00
         Coordinator                oversight of all          terms of contract.
                                    technical work required
                                    under the MOE part of
                                    the project (6/2005-
                                    6/2009). In 7/2007 -
                                    6/2009: coordination of
                                    both MOE and
                                    MOLSAF project
                                    activities.

Part B: Investment in Human Resources
Improvement in the quality of human resources available for policy making and
implementation in the two beneficiaries and associated institutions, through capacity building
of the existing staff supplemented by strategic staff reallocation and targeted recruitment, to
analyse policy options and the impact of ongoing reforms.

Part B.1: Improvement of Human Resource Management Systems

MOLSAF
No.        Activity Title           Objective/Key Outputs          Key Results           Disbursed
                                                                                       Amount in EUR
B.1.1.1.   Initial Assessment,      Assessment Report,        Elaborated                    62 686,00
           Planning and Trainings   General HR                management and
           for Human Resource       management kit for HR     personal assessment
           Management within the    staff customized to       kits for HR staff ,
           Employment and Social    individual                proposed
           Affairs Sector           organizations,            remuneration system
                                    Performance               framework used by
                                    measurement and           MOLSAF,
                                    personal assessment kit   Headquarters and
                                    for HR staff customized   offices of Labour,
                                    to individual             Social Affairs and
                                    organizations,            Family, Centre for
                                    General remuneration      Study of Employment
                                    system framework          and Family, National
                                    customized to             Work Inspectorate,
                                    individual                Social Development
                                    organizations,            Fund, MOLSAF
                                    delivered in 8/2005 ­     Education Centre,
                                    8/2006 to MOLSAF          Centre for
                                    Personal Office have      International Legal
                                    been used by respective   Protection of Children
                                    organisations             and Youth
                                    (MOLSAF,
                                    Headquarters and
                                    offices of Labour,
                                    Social Affairs and
                                    Family, Center for
                                    Study of Employment
                                    and Family, National
                                    Work Inspectorate,

ICR-HCTA Project                               64
                                    Social Development
                                    Fund, MOLSAF
                                    Education Center,
                                    Center for International
                                    Legal Protection of
                                    Children and Youth).
B.1.1.-   Human Resources           Restricted realisation to   Designed Strategy of           61 442,00
II.A      Development for           60% of original             Development and HR
          MOLSAF, Central           contract tasks:             Management in the
          Office of LSAF and        Assessment of               sector of labour,
          National Labour           Management Systems          social affairs and
          Inspectorate              and HR Development          family of the SR
                                    Design of Strategy of       (incomplete)
                                    Management in the
                                    sector of Labour, Social
                                    affairs and Family of
                                    the SR
                                    Designed Strategy of
                                    Development and HR
                                    Management delivered
                                    in 12/2008 ­ 4/2009 to
                                    the Educational Center
                                    of the MOLSAF SR,
                                    further used by
                                    MOLSAF
B.1.3.    Analyses of               Restricted realisation,                                    25 847,00
          Management                MOLSAF cancelled the        Drafted MISW
          Information Software      contract due to change      architecture, because
          within Employment and of governmental IT              the project couldn´t be
          Social Affairs Sector     strategy.                   completed due to
          (MIS)                     Analyses of MISW            limitations.
                                    supplied for human
                                    resource managers in
                                    the social affairs and
                                    employment sector,
                                    preparation of Design
                                    of new architecture of
                                    MISW
                                    delivered in 5-8/2007 to
                                    the MOLSAF
                                    Administration Office.
B.1.5.    Purchase of Tests for     Outputs delivered in        23 tests (standardized          3 004,00
          measuring personality 8/2007 to the MOLSAF            psychological test
          of applicants as part of Personnel Department,        battery) used by
          selection procedure       have been used by           MOLSAF and
          within the social affairs MOLSAF and the              Central Office of
          and employment sector Central Office of               Labour, Social Affairs
          (SW)                      Labour, Social Affairs      and Family
                                    and Family.

MOE
No.       Activity Title             Objective/Key Outputs           Key Results            Disbursed
                                                                                          Amount in EUR
B.1.1.-   Strategy for HR        Strategy of                    Elaborated                     85 347,00
II.B      Development, including Development and                Strategy of HR


ICR-HCTA Project                                65
           the implementation       Management of HR             Development and HR
           Plan for MOE             compatible with the          Management and
                                    HRDM system of EU            Strategy of
                                    countries, to allow          Management of
                                    apply basic principles,      Human Resources
                                    methods and form of          prepared for
                                    work further on              implementation by
                                    subjects and institutions    MOE
                                    acting in the area of
                                    education.
                                    SWOT Analysis,
                                    Strategy of
                                    Management of Human
                                    Resources and a
                                    Implementation Plan
                                    for MOE
                                    delivered in 4-6/2009 to
                                    the MOE Personnel
                                    Department, used and
                                    further developed by
                                    MOE
B.1.1.2.   Initial Assessment and   Assessment of HR             Several                  49 300,00
           Planning of HR           management within            recommendations of
           Management for MOE       MOE                          Development plan
                                    Elaboration of               were implemented
                                    Development plan to          within assignments of
                                    establish new model of       the Project
                                    HR management at
                                    MOE,
                                    delivered in 5-9/2007 to
                                    the MOE Personnel
                                    Department, have been
                                    used by MOE
B.1.4.     Set up of Analysis of    Analysis of the              Updated statistical      29 622,00
           Research and             Research- Development        indicators used within
           Development Potential    Potential in individual      statistical enquiry of
                                    sectors of research and      research and
                                    development of the SR.       development potential
                                    System of actualized         preformed by MOE
                                    statistical indicators for   and within statistical
                                    the area of research and     enquiry in science and
                                    development,                 technology performed
                                    delivered in 7-9/2008 to     by the Statistical
                                    the Section of Science       Office of the Slovak
                                    and Technology of            Republic,
                                    MOE, have been used by
                                    MOE                          Designed
                                                                 methodology for
                                                                 elaboration of annual
                                                                 report about of
                                                                 science and research
                                                                 in the Slovak
                                                                 Republic and its
                                                                 comparation with
                                                                 foreign countries used
                                                                 by MOE

ICR-HCTA Project                                66
Part B.2. Staff Training and Development

MOLSAF
No.        Activity Title               Objective/Key                Key Results             Disbursed
                                          Outputs                                          Amount in EUR
B.2.1.1.   Assessment of Training   Assessment of training      Implemented                     36 652,00
           Needs of New             needs of new managers       individual
           Managers and Field       in the Assessment           development
           Assistance to New        Center,                     strategies and plans
           Managers                 Implementation of the       for field assistance for
                                    individual development      each assessed manger.
                                    strategies.                 for 13 managers for
                                    training needs              each manger &
                                    assessment for 13 new       Individual field
                                    MOLSAF managers             assistance for 13 new
                                    (General Director of        MOLSAF managers.
                                    Social Income and           - Results:
                                    Pension Scheme
                                    Division of MOLSAF,
                                    General Director of
                                    European Social Fund
                                    Division of MOLSAF,
                                    Director of Personal
                                    Office of MOLSAF,
                                    Director of Social
                                    Policy Institute of
                                    MOLSAF, Director
                                    Department for Public
                                    Relation of MOLSAF,
                                    Director Minister's
                                    Office of MOLSAF,
                                    Managing Authority of
                                    Sectoral Operational
                                    Programme "Human
                                    Resources" under
                                    European Social Fund
                                    Division, Director of
                                    Social Inclusion
                                    Department of
                                    MOLSAF, Director of
                                    MOLSAF State
                                    Secretary's Office,
                                    Director of Pension
                                    Savings Department,
                                    Director of Department
                                    of Family and Gender
                                    Policy of MOLSAF,
                                    Director of Department
                                    of EU Affairs and
                                    International and Legal
                                    Affairs , future Director
                                    of Monitoring and
                                    Evaluation Unit within


ICR-HCTA Project                                67
                                    Social Policy Institute)
                                    delivered in 7/2005 -
                                    5/2006 to the MOLSAF
                                    Personnel Department,
                                    have been used by
                                    MOLSAF. After
                                    change of the
                                    Government and
                                    changes in the
                                    ministries management,
                                    out of 13 assessed
                                    managers 10 persons
                                    left MOLSAF in
                                    second half of 2006
                                    year.
B.2.1.2.   Assessment of            Assessment of              Developed strategy      80 000,00
           Policymaking Capacity Policymaking Capacity         for enhancing of the
           in Governmental and      in Governmental and        policymaking
           Non-governmental         Non-governmental           capacity &
           Sector within the Social Sector within the Social   Recommendations for
           and Employment Policy and Employment Policy         enhancing of the
           Area and                 Area and                   policymaking
           Recommendations for Recommendations for             capacity.
           Enhancing this           Enhancing this
           Capacity                 Capacity.
                                    Development strategy
                                    for enhancing of the
                                    policymaking capacity,
                                    delivered in 12/2005 -
                                    7/2006 to the HCTA
                                    Project Director, have
                                    been used by MOLSAF.
B.2.1.3.   Education Policy in      SWOT analyses.             Elaborated             101 713,00
           Sector of Labour,        Educational Standards      educational system
           Social Affairs and       of State Employees,        for employees in the
           Family - analyses of     Evaluation,                efficacy of MOLSAF
           non formal education     Supervision
                                    and Evaluation of
                                    Quality and
                                    Effectiveness of
                                    Education.
                                    Methodology of the
                                    realization of the
                                    analyses of educational
                                    needs and preparation
                                    of yearly educational
                                    plans of state
                                    employees and plans of
                                    personal development.
                                    Proposal for
                                    Implementation of a
                                    system and institutional
                                    management of HR.,
                                    delivered in 7-12/2008
                                    to the Educational
                                    Centre of MOLSAF,

ICR-HCTA Project                               68
                               have been used by
                               MOLSAF.
B.2.1.4. Consultant for        Consulting services         Provided services         8 666,00
         Activities related to related to the human        related to MOLSAF
         Development of Human resources development        HRD MOLSAF
         Resources for         to MOLSAF                   Elaborated
         MOLSAF                Administration Office.      compendium
         Administration Office Coordination of
                               subjects cooperating on
                               the task of
                               establishment of a
                               logical, completed and
                               unified framework for
                               the development of the
                               employees of the sector
                               of labour, social affairs
                               and family,
                               Elaboration of a
                               summary/compendium
                               from already
                               implemented
                               educational projects
                               and programs for the
                               employees in the sector
                               (PHARE, ESF, service
                               and administration
                               offices of the sector of
                               MOLSAF SR),
                               delivered in 2-6/2008 to
                               the MOLSAF SR
                               Administration Office,
                               have been used by
                               MOLSAF.
B.2.2.   Training, Workshops,  Participation of 121        Improved knowledge      163 314,84
MOLSA Scholarships for         MOLSAF                      and experts skills of
F        MOLSAF performed in representatives in 26         participants in
         2005-2009             international seminars,     respective areas.
                               conferences ...
B.2.2.1. Thematic Review:      By cooperation with the     Increased knowledge      80 000,00
         "School-to-Work-      OECD, enhance the           and experts skills of
         Transition" project   human capital of            the MOLSAF staff in
                               MOLSAF with respect         respective area.
                               to its ability to analyse
                               and formulate policies
                               to improve school-to-
                               work transition and job
                               prospects of youth in
                               the Slovak Republic
B.2.2.2. Language Course for   English language            10 top HR managers        5 082,00
         Human Resource        courses for 10 top          improved their
         Managers from         human resource              language skills and
         Employment and Social managers from               knowledge
         Affairs Sector        MOLSAF and
                               Headquarter of Office
                               of Labour, Social
                               Affairs and Family,

ICR-HCTA Project                            69
                                    delivered in 5/2006 ­
                                    3/2007
                                    Recommendations for
                                    further trainings have
                                    been used by MOLSAF.
B.2.2.3.   Programme for the        By cooperation with the     Increased knowledge     20 000,00
           International            OECD, enhance the           and experts skills of
           Assessment of Adult      human capital of            the MOLSAF staff in
           Competencies"            MOLSAF with respect         respective area.
           (PIAAC) project)         to its ability to analyse
                                    and formulate policies
                                    to improve the skills
                                    and employment
                                    outcomes of the Slovak
                                    workforce through the
                                    use of appropriate
                                    surveys of the adult
                                    population
B.2.2.6.   Trainings for the Centre training for 11             11 employees trained     4 345,00
2.soe      for the International    employees of the centre
           Legal Protection of      (psychological
           Children and Youth:      education and training
           "Professional            to protect the
           Development of the       employees prior to the
           Mediator"                mental condition state
                                    called "burnout
                                    syndrome")
                                    delivered in 4/2009,
                                    Recommendations for
                                    further trainings have
                                    been used by the
                                    Centre and MOLSAF.
B.2.3.1.   Assistance in Long-      Assessment of the           Updated SDF             52 860,00
           term Development of      Organizational              Organizational
           Social Development       Structure - Job             structure
           Fund                     descriptions,               trained 60 SDF
                                    Competence book..           employees.
                                    Assessment Centre -
                                    Managerial skills -
                                    Trainings of 60
                                    employees of Social
                                    Development Fund,
                                    delivered in 10/2005 -
                                    9/2007 to the Social
                                    Development Fund
                                    section, MOLSAF
                                    Outputs have been used
                                    by MOLSAF / SDF.
B.2.3.2.   Strategy for             Assessment of the           Enhanced abilities of   32 850,00
           Enhancement of Expert expert policy dialogue         MOLSAF and Social
           Dialogue in the field of and training needs          Insurance Agency
           Social Affairs and       assessment.                 (SIA) experts to lead
           Employment               Trainings in the            professional/expert
                                    external expert policy      dialogue
                                    dialogue for MOLSAF         10 employees trained
                                    policymaking experts        .

ICR-HCTA Project                                70
                                  delivered in 8-11/2007,
                                  outputs delivered to
                                  MOLSAF Press and
                                  Media Department,
                                  recommendations have
                                  been used by MOLSAF
                                  and SIA.
B.2.3.3. Assistance in            Analysis of the             Increased quality of      130 000,00
          Improvement of          Situation of the Field of   institutional and
          Institutional and       Social Inclusion            professional capacity
          Personal Capacity for   Services.                   of execution in the
          Social Inclusion        Training Needs              field of social affairs
          Services                Analysis.                   and family within
                                  Recommendations for         changes implemented
                                  Improving the Present       in social policy sector
                                  Situation of the Field of   to support social
                                  Social Inclusion            inclusion
                                  Services.
                                  Recommendations for
                                  training of Employees
                                  in the Social Affairs
                                  Sector in Slovakia.
                                  Recommendations for
                                  the Accreditation of
                                  "Non-State Owned"
                                  Entities to Provide
                                  High-Quality Services
                                  in Social and Legal
                                  Protection of Children
                                  and Social Curatel.
                                  Development of
                                  policies and procedures
                                  for monitoring of
                                  training strategies and
                                  implementation plans,
                                  delivered in 12/2007 -
                                  5/2008 to the MOLSAF
                                  Social Inclusion and
                                  Assistance in Material
                                  Need Department
                                  Outputs and
                                  recommendations have
                                  been used by MOLSAF
                                  and sector
                                  organisations
B.2.3.4.- Strategy for Long-term Strategy for Long-term       Elaborated Strategy,       23 825,00
I.        Development of Centre Development of Centre         reports and
          for International Legal for International Legal     recommendations
          Protection of Children Protection of Children       have been used by
          and Youth               and Youth:                  MOLSAF and the
                                  Organizational              Centre (ref. No.
                                  assessment and              C.4&5. registry
                                  assessment of the inter-    system, B.2.2.-6.2.
                                  institutional processes     trainings,) for further
                                  and recommendations         development
                                  for improvements.

ICR-HCTA Project                              71
                                Report on the model of
                                the electronic registry
                                of the correspondence
                                and other documents.
                                Report on the current
                                content of CIPC library
                                and the arrangement of
                                improvement of CIPC
                                library. Assessment and
                                recommendations for
                                the form of electronic
                                system for storing and
                                processing of incoming
                                and outgoing payments
                                of maintenance,
                                delivered in 2 ­4/2008
                                to Centre for
                                International Legal
                                Protection of Children
                                and Youth of MOLSAF
                                Outputs and
                                recommendations have
                                been used by MOLSAF
                                and the Centre (ref. No.
                                C.4&5. registry system,
                                B.2.2.-6.2. trainings,)
B.2.5.1.   Media communication Strengthening               Improved capabilities   116 606,00
           training for top     capabilities of            of MOLSAF top
           MOLSAF management MOLSAF top managers           managers and experts
                                and selected expert        and communication
                                employees to               channels in public
                                professionally lead a      space.
                                dialogue.                  Trained 15 top
                                 - Analysis of the         managers and expert
                                 present level of          employees of
                                 communication in the      MOLSAF
                                 area of social affairs
                                 and family, and
                                 training needs
                                 - Communication
                                 channels in public
                                 space
                                 - Training of 15
                                 selected top managers
                                 and expert employees
                                 of MOLSAF,
                                 delivered in 2-6/2009
                                 to MOLSAF
                                 Department for
                                 Communication and
                                 PR
                                 Outputs and
                                 recommendations have
                                 been used by MOLSAF
B.2.10.    Trainings for Social Communication              Elaborated               69 294,00
           Implementation       Strategy for Social        Communication

ICR-HCTA Project                            72
          Agency for Efficient      Implementation             Strategy for Social
          Communication             Agency for                 Implementation
          Processes in Successful   communication with         Agency for
          Implementation of ESF     NGOs.                      communication with
          Projects                  Trainings for              NGOs.
                                    employees of SIA           33 employees of SIA
                                    (Communication &           trained
                                    presentation skills,       outputs and
                                    Project management,        recommendations
                                    Basic knowledge on         have been used by
                                    NGOs),                     MOLSAF and Social
                                    delivered in 6 -8/2008     Implementation
                                    to and used by SIA and     Agency
                                    MOLSAF
B.3.1.    Reimbursement of          The international          Reimbursed direct      26 819,00
soe       direct costs of           ministerial conference     costs of the
          Ministerial conference    was dealing with the       conference
          focused on incoming       changing situation in      (147 participants,
          foreign labour force in   our labour market.         including 30 foreign
          the EU new member         Experts from the new       participants)
          states "From the          member states EU 8+2,
          Shortage of Job           where the situation is
          Opportunities to the      very similar, discussed
          Shortage of Qualified     mainly the questions of
          Labour Force", 25-26      managed economic
          Sept 2008, Bratislava     labour migration as one
                                    of the possible
                                    alternative solutions to
                                    the lack of native
                                    labour resources for
                                    the entry of foreigners
                                    into the labour market.
                                    The conference was
                                    also used for bilateral
                                    negotiations of
                                    Minister Ms. Viera
                                    Tomanová with her
                                    resort colleagues from
                                    Bulgaria, the Czech
                                    Republic and Hungary,
                                    as well as with
                                    representatives of the
                                    International
                                    Organisation for
                                    Migration.

B.3.2.    Conference "Readiness     The objective of the       Reimbursed direct       8 319,00
soe       of the LSAF resort for    conference was the         costs of the
          the transfer to Euro      exchange of                conference
          currency in connection    information and            (205 participants)
          with vulnerable (risk)    knowledge obtained
          groups of citizens"       from the realization of
          10/2008, Bratislava       steps towards the
                                    introduction of the Euro
                                    in Slovakia. The
                                    conference was focused

ICR-HCTA Project                               73
                                   on risk groups of
                                   citizens, under the
                                   auspices of the Minister
                                   of Labour, Social
                                   Affairs and Family SR.
                                   The importance of the
                                   conference introduction
                                   to the Euro is connected
                                   with the fact that since
                                   1 January 2009 all
                                   pension funds, social
                                   security funds,
                                   unemployment
                                   contributions and other
                                   funds have been paid
                                   in the new currency.
                                   The conference
                                   contributed to the
                                   preparation of
                                   conditions for the
                                   introduction of the Euro
                                   as a concern to the
                                   readiness not only of
                                   the Slovak Insurance
                                   Office and it´s branch
                                   offices, but also The
                                   Central Labor Office of
                                   the SR and all Labour
                                   offices, Social Affairs
                                   and Family in the
                                   regions
B.3.3.    Seminars for employees Reimbursement of             Reimbursed direct       14 059,00
soe       of Labour, Social        direct costs of the        costs (premises,
          Affairs and Family       seminars/trainings         refreshments, ...),
          sector "Preparation of   /lectures in 4 regions,    trained
          the LSAF resort for the about the transfer to       130 persons in Banská
          transfer to Euro         Euro currency -            Bystrica,
          currency"(direct costs), information blocs on       99 persons in Nitra,
          Nov-Dec 2008             the euro banknotes,        159 persons in
                                   euro coins, recognition    Presov,
                                   of euro coins for          139 persons in
                                   employees working          Tren ín.
                                   with the cash.
                                   Participants from
                                   MOLSAF, National
                                   Bank of Slovakia,
                                   Plenipotentiary of SR
                                   Government for Roma
                                   communities, Centre of
                                   Labour, Social Affairs
                                   and Family SR, Social
                                   Insurance Agency,
                                   regional labour offices,
                                   regional branch offices
                                   of Social Insurance
                                   Agency, Labour Inspect


ICR-HCTA Project                              74
                                    regional offices,
                                    regional state
                                    government and
                                    municipalities
                                    (departments of social
                                    affairs and health),
                                    children's homes,
                                    social care institutions,
                                    senior homes, non-
                                    profit non-
                                    governmental
                                    institutions
B.3.4.     Reimbursement of         The goal was to create      Reimbursed direct        5 757,00
soe        direct costs of "2nd     space for meetings and      costs of the
           International            to exchange                 conference
           Conference               information and             (205 participants)
           RESEARCH INTO            experiences from            The set up goals have
           PRACTICE                 experts from various        been fulfilled
           KNOWLEDGE                European countries,
           TRANSFER FOR             representatives of the
           SOCIAL WORK              government and also
           PRACTITIONERS            non-governmental
           AND                      organizations, trainers
           MANAGERS"(October and experts from praxis
           23-24, 2008, Trnava      a creators of the
           University,Trnava        respective legislative
B.4.3.1.   Reimbursement of         The conference showed       Reimbursed direct       20 161,00
soe        direct costs of          the need of an raising      costs of the
           International            up of the social and        conference
           Conference ,,Solidarity inter human solidarity;      (248 participants)
           at the time of the       mainly in the period of
           Global Financial         a global crisis and the
           Crises" (20 February     need to increase up
           2009, Bratislava)        employment and
                                    financial support in the
                                    social sphere. At the
                                    conference personally
                                    the President of the
                                    Slovak Republic took
                                    part.
B.4.3.2.   Direct costs of          Experts from 14             Reimbursed direct       35 333,33
soe        International            countries of the world      costs of the
           Conference ,,Pension     at the event discussed      conference
           systems at the time of   the very actual and         (242 participants)
           global financial crisis" acute theme, in which
           (4 May 2009,             at the present a lot of
           Bratislava)              countries and also the
                                    European Commission
                                    are giving much
                                    attention. The
                                    conference objective
                                    was to assess the
                                    impact of the global
                                    financial and economic
                                    crises to the pension
                                    systems. The

ICR-HCTA Project                                75
                                     participants have been
                                     involved from various
                                     points of view,
                                     presented by a broad
                                     spectrum of
                                     presentations. The
                                     participants obtained
                                     valuable knowledge
                                     about the functioning
                                     of pension systems in
                                     many of European
                                     countries

MOE
   No.             Activity Title    Objective/Key Outputs     Status /Results/          Disbursed
                                                                  Outcome              Amount in EUR
B.2.1.-I   Educational Policy in SWOT analysis.            Elaborated                       80 142,00
           HR Management         Educational Policy in     Educational Policy in
                                 HR Management for         HR Management for
                                 MOE. Management           MOE, Management
                                 Model and                 Model and
                                 recommendations for       recommendations
                                 institutional support for prepared for
                                 HR development,           implementation
                                 delivered in 3-6/2009 to - outputs and
                                 MOE Organisational        recommendations are
                                 Department, outputs       used by MOE
                                 and recommendations
                                 are used by MOE
B.2.2.     Training, Workshops, Participation of 87        Increased knowledge          164 915 EUR
MOE        Scholarships, for MOE MOE representatives in and experts skills of
           performed in 2005-    26 international          participants in
           2009                  seminars, conferences respective areas.
                                 ...

B.2.2.-    Training on               2 days training seminar   46 employees trained       10 330 EUR
5.2.       "Monitoring and           for MOE top
MOE        Evaluation of             management and
           Programs/Projects "       project managers
           (Bratislava, 29-30 June   oriented on specific
           2009                      needs of monitoring
                                     and evaluation of
                                     projects implemented
                                     by MOE and funded by
                                     EU SF
B.2.4.     Assistance in             Evaluation of the         Elaborated Manual of         69 020,00
           Development of Grant      present status.           rules and regulations
           Schemes                   Manual of rules and       for implementation of
                                     regulations for           the grant schemes for
                                     implementation of the     support of research
                                     grant schemes at the      and development at
                                     MOE.                      the MOE,
                                     Recommendations for
                                     the improvement of the    Implemented
                                     present status of the     recommendations for
                                     implementation of grant   reform of support to

ICR-HCTA Project                                76
                                   schemes for the support  science and research
                                   of research and          by application of:
                                   development,             - multi annual
                                   delivered in 12/2007 ­   programming ,
                                   6/2008 to MOE Section    - project management
                                   of Science and           cycle and log frame
                                   Technology, further      matrix
                                   used and developed by    - change from fund
                                   MOE                      disbursement
                                                            orientation to goal-
                                                            directed support of
                                                            science and research
                                                            are implemented.
                                                            Updated institutional
                                                            arrangements for
                                                            management and
                                                            implementation of
                                                            programmes for
                                                            support of research
                                                            and development
B.2.4.-II. Assistance in           PROSUDOC                 Elaborated:             59 219,00
           Development of Grant Programme proposal to Programme,
           Schemes for the         support students,        implementation
           Ministry of Education graduates and post         manual,
           SR to support Students, graduates,               Website,
           Graduates and Post-     PROSUDOC                 Brochures
           Graduates in Area of    Implementation           5 employees trained
           Research and            manual,
           Development             Training of MOE staff
                                   directly involved in
                                   programme
                                   implementation,
                                   Creation of passive
                                   website ,
                                   Preparation of program
                                   information brochure.
                                   delivered in 12/2008 ­
                                   3/2008 to MOE Section
                                   of Science and
                                   Technology, further
                                   used and developed by
                                   MOE, proposed
                                   National Grant Scheme
                                   for Support of Students,
                                   Graduates and Post-
                                   Graduates in Area of
                                   Research and
                                   Development will be
                                   implemented in full in
                                   accordance with
                                   elaborated
                                   Implementation
                                   manual. Its 1st phase
                                   for selected range of
                                   science areas is
                                   prepared for 2009


ICR-HCTA Project                              77
B.2.5.    Media Communication      Analysis of present        Improved capabilities    116 606,00
          Training for top MOE     level of                   of 20 MOE top
          Management               communication in the       managers and selected
                                   area of education and      experts to
                                   training needs.            professionally lead a
                                   Communication              dialogue
                                   channels in public         Improved
                                   space.                     communication
                                   Training of top            cannels
                                   managers and expert
                                   employees of MOE
                                   delivered in 2-6/2009
                                   to MOE Department
                                   for Communication
                                   and PR, outputs and
                                   recommendations
                                   further used by MOE
B.2.6.    Establishment of        Methodology and             Elaborated               100 374,00
          Transfer Technology     system for support of       methodology and
          Centres, Start Up, Spin establishment of            design of a system for
          Off, Centres of         transfer technology         support of
          Excellence              centers, start up, spin     establishment of
                                  off and centers of          centres
                                  excellence: design of a
                                  system for support of
                                  creation and
                                  establishment and
                                  building of centers of
                                  transfer of technology,
                                  start up, spin off a
                                  centers of excellence,-
                                  delivered in 4- 6/2008
                                  to MOE Section of
                                  Science and
                                  Technology, further
                                  used and developed by
                                  MOE

                                  Outputs were used for:

                                  - preparation of call for
                                  proposals for Centres
                                  of Excellence to be
                                  covered by operating
                                  programme Research
                                  and Development (EU
                                  Structural Funds), to be
                                  implemented by MOE
                                  agency for structural
                                  funds,

                                  - preparation of "Draft
                                  of new Model of
                                  Financing of Science
                                  and Technology in the
                                  Slovak Republic" to be

ICR-HCTA Project                              78
                                  submitted for
                                  governmental session
                                  in August 2009
B.2.7.    Corporate Identity of   Assessment of               Elaborated ethical      58 090,00
          MOE                     corporate identity at the   code, internal
                                  MOE,                        communication and
                                  Recommendations for         results of assessment
                                  process of creation of      used for starting of
                                  corporate identity at the   creation MOE
                                  MOE,                        corporate identity
                                  Proposal for an internal
                                  company
                                  communication,
                                  Proposal of ethical code
                                  of the employee of the
                                  MOE,
                                  delivered in 6-12/2008
                                  to MOE Secretariat of
                                  the Minister, further
                                  used by MOE
B.4.1.    Conference "New         Reimbursement of            Reimbursed direct        5 157,00
soe       direction in the        direct costs                costs of conference
          promotion of science    for presentation of         (150 participants)
          and technology" (direct elaborated outputs of
          costs) December 2008, assignment B.2.6
          Bratislava,             Establishment of
                                  Transfer Technology
                                  Centres, Start Up, Spin
                                  Off, Centres of
                                  Excellence and their
                                  practical issues in
                                  connection with its
                                  financing form EU SF
                                  and new direction in the
                                  promotion of science
                                  and technology for
                                  above 100 participants
                                  ­ representatives of
                                  MOE, universities,
                                  Slovak Rectors
                                  Conference, the Slovak
                                  Academy of Science,
                                  business organizations
                                  in science and
                                  development, etc.
B.4.2.    Training and            Reimbursement of            Study training direct    2 543,00
soe       internships in          direct costs of study       costs reimbursed,
          connection in           trip ­training              3 MOE employees of
          connection with         Visit of 3 MOE              financial section
          transfer to Euro        representatives in          trained in relevant
          currency in conditions Ministry of Education,       topics
          of the educational      Higher Education and
          sector (Ljubljana,      Sport, University of
          Slovenia, 10 ­ 12       Ljublana and school
          December 2008           institutions in Ljublana
                                  and Velen focussed on

ICR-HCTA Project                              79
                                   discussion of practical
                                   financial issues,
                                   necessary steps and
                                   risks in connection with
                                   transfer to Euro
                                   currency in conditions
                                   of the educational
                                   sector.

B.6.1.     Elaboration of          Analyses of the training   Elaborated training          86 650,00
           educational programs    programs for the           programs for newly
           for MOE                 employees of the MOE,      employed employees,
                                   Elaboration of training    for supervisors, for a
                                   programs: for a group      employees fulfilling
                                   of newly employed          tasks in connection
                                   employees, for a group     with the EU, for
                                   of supervisors of the      expert training.
                                   MOE, for a group           28 MOE employees
                                   fulfilling tasks in        trained
                                   connection with the
                                   EU.
                                   Elaboration of training
                                   programs for a group of
                                   expert training.
                                   Training o selected
                                   employees,
                                   delivered in 4-6/2009 to
                                   MOE Personnel
                                   Department, further
                                   used by MOE


Part C: Building and Upgrading Institutional Capacity
Creation and implementation of an integrated policy management system to structure and
guide the various steps in the policy cycle in both the two participating ministries and in the
complementary network of institutions, through the development of the capacity to produce
high quality policy outputs in priority areas, thereby ensuring the availability of improved
statistical and monitoring information for policy makers in the field of employment,
education and social cohesion.

Part C.1: Policy Formulation

MOLSAF
No.        Activity Title              Objective/Key             Key Results             Disbursed
                                          Outputs                                      Amount in EUR
C.1.2.1.   Design of Costing      Design a               Elaborated Designs                48 750,00
           Methodology and        comprehensive          have been used by
           Impact Assessment      system providing       MOLSAF
           Methodology            reliable information
                                  about costs of
                                  policies/legislative
                                  and non-legislative
                                  proposals and the
                                  implications of
                                  policies/legislative

ICR-HCTA Project                               80
                                    and non-legislative
                                    proposals for
                                    economic situation of
                                    population.
                                    Design costing
                                    methodology
                                    including standards
                                    and processes of
                                    costing for MOLSAF
                                    policies, assistance in
                                    implementation of the
                                    methodology.
                                    Design impact
                                    assessment
                                    methodology.
                                    delivered in 1 ­ 12
                                    /2006 to Social Policy
                                    Institute, MOLSAF,
                                    outputs and
                                    recommendations
                                    have been used by
                                    MOLSAF

MOE
No.       Activity Title                 Objective/Key               Key Results             Disbursed
                                            Outputs                                        Amount in EUR
C.1.3.1   Training of MOE and       Training about the        104 representatives of           52 200,00
          universities staff in     CAF Model 2006 for        universities and MOE
          CAF methodology           selected                  trained in the CAF
          and elaboration of self   representatives of        Model 2006
          evaluation reports        universities and MOE.     Implemented CAF
                                    Assistance in the         Model by participating
                                    implementation of the     universities and MOE
                                    CAF Model to the          and elaborated first Self-
                                    included universities     Evaluation reports of
                                    and MOE.                  universities
                                    Support with the          .
                                    elaboration of the
                                    Self-evaluation
                                    reports.
                                    delivered in 12/2007­
                                    5 /2008 to MOE
                                    Personnel
                                    Department, used and
                                    developed by MOE
                                    and participating
                                    universities.
C.1.3.1.- Training of MOE and       Delivery of training      40 participants trained in       40 182,00
II        universities staff in     on the CAF Model for      Model 2006,
          CAF methodology           representatives of        External evaluation
          and elaboration of self   universities and          based on self-assessment
          evaluation reports        support with its          CAF report completed
                                    implementation,
                                    provision of the
                                    training
                                    representatives of

ICR-HCTA Project                                 81
                                universities and MOE,
                                who further shall act
                                as lectors and
                                evaluators of the CAF
                                Model. Evaluation
                                process based on
                                particular self-
                                assessment CAF
                                report for universities.
                                - CAF Self-
                                assessment Report for
                                Universities
                                - Trainings on CAF
                                Model 2006
                                - External evaluation
                                based on self-
                                assessment CAF
                                report
                                delivered in 12/2008­
                                3 /2009 to MOE
                                Personnel
                                Department and
                                participating
                                universities, used and
                                developed by MOE
                                and participating
                                universities..

Part C.2: Improve Information Base For Social Policy Formulation, Monitoring and
Evaluation

MOLSAF
No.        Activity Title            Objective/Key                Key Results            Disbursed
                                        Outputs                                        Amount in EUR
C.2.1.1.   Design of            Design the                 Designed Methodology             38 828,00
           Methodology on       Methodology on the         on the available labour
           Labour Market Data   available labour           market statistical data
           and Indicators       market statistical data    and quantitative
                                and quantitative           indicators consisting of
                                indicators consisting      the indicator of number
                                of the indicator of        of job vacancies and the
                                number of job              indicator of number of
                                vacancies and the          created and destructed
                                indicator of number of     jobs within small
                                created and destructed     businesses with less than
                                jobs within small          20 employees used
                                businesses with less
                                than 20 employees
                                delivered in 8/2005­ 4
                                /2006 to MOLSAF
                                Department of
                                Employment
                                Strategies - outputs
                                have been used by
                                MOLSAF and


ICR-HCTA Project                              82
                                  Statistical Office of
                                  the Slovak Republic
C.2.1.2. 1.Advising on            Analysis of different    Elaborated                  46 429,00
          Concept of Absolute methods of setting an        Analysis and method for
          Poverty Line in         absolute poverty line    up dating the absolute
          Slovakia                and construction of      poverty lines
          2. Application of the different alternatives
          Concept of Absolute of absolute poverty
          Poverty Line            lines relevant to
                                  Slovak Republic
                                  conditions.
                                  Design of a method
                                  for up-dating the
                                  absolute poverty lines
                                  delivered in 8/2005­ 6
                                  /2006 to MOLSAF
                                  Social Inclusion
                                  Department, have
                                  been used by
                                  MOLSAF
C.2.1.3. Evaluation &             Designing the system     Recommended system of       21 893,00
1.        Monitoring of           of indicators for the    new indicators and
          Programmes and          purpose of               central database system
          Institutions within the administering            for the purpose of
          Employment and          MOLSAF's                 administering
          Social Affairs -        evaluation and           MOLSAF's evaluation
          Design of System of monitoring system,           and monitoring system, -
          Indicators              Evaluation of            outputs and
                                  available statistical    recommendations have
                                  data and indicators in   been used by MOLSAF.
                                  social area and labour
                                  market,
                                  recommendations on
                                  new indicators.
                                  Recommendations on
                                  central database
                                  system,
                                  delivered in 7-9/2005
                                  to MOLSAF Social
                                  Policy Institute,
                                  outputs and
                                  recommendations
                                  have been used by
                                  MOLSAF
C.2.1.3.- Evaluation &            Assistance for Social    Designed human              34 720,00
II.       Monitoring of           Policy Institute         resource strategy for the
          Programmes and          (MOLSAF) in              purpose of administering
          Institutions within the designing human          MOLSAF's evaluation
          Employment and          resource strategy for    and monitoring system.
          Social Affairs -        the purpose of           .
          Design of Human         administering
          Resource Strategy of MOLSAF's
          the Evaluation and      evaluation and
          Monitoring Centre       monitoring system,
                                  delivered in 12/2005 ­
                                  2/2006 to MOLSAF

ICR-HCTA Project                              83
                                 Social Policy
                                 Institute,
                                 outputs and
                                 recommendations
                                 have been used by
                                 MOLSAF
C.2.1.3.   Design of System of Assistance to              Designed complex            55 028,00
3.         Evaluation of         MOLSAF in                evaluation system of
           Institutions Directly designing and            MOLSAF's directly
           Subordinated to       implementing a           subordinated institutions
           MOLSAF, and of        complex evaluation       and MOLSAF's
           MOLSAF´s Programs system of MOLSAF's           programs and initiatives.
           & Initiatives         directly subordinated    trained 20 employees
                                 institutions and
                                 MOLSAF's programs
                                 and initiatives.
                                 Recommendations,
                                 training for
                                 employees of
                                 MOLSAF and
                                 directly subordinated
                                 institutions,
                                 delivered in 12/2005 ­
                                 4/2006 to MOLSAF
                                 Social Policy
                                 Institute, outputs and
                                 recommendations
                                 have been used by
                                 MOLSAF and directly
                                 subordinated
                                 institutions
C.2.1.4.   Analysis of Project   Analysis of Project      Analysed Grants             77 026,00
           Grants Applicants     Grants Applicants        Applicants from the 3rd
           from the 3rd Sector-  from the 3rd Sector-     Sector-NGOs for period
           NGOs                  NGOs for period          2004-6, identified risk
                                 2004-6.                  areas and proposed
                                 Recommendations to       recommendations to
                                 avoid identified risk    ensure improvement of
                                 areas to ensure          involvement of NGOs in
                                 improvement of           coming Programming
                                 involvement of NGOs      Period.
                                 in Programming           .
                                 Period 2007- 2013 in
                                 area of labour, social
                                 affairs and family
                                 with stress on the
                                 employment policy,
                                 delivered in 5-8/2008
                                 to MOLSAF Social
                                 Implementation
                                 Agency,
                                 outputs and
                                 recommendations
                                 have been used by
                                 MOLSAF and Social
                                 Implementation

ICR-HCTA Project                              84
                                   Agency.
C.3.2.1.   Expert Development      Preparation of the       Printed and distributed    13 181,74
           of Information          expert and publicity     brochures, leaflets,
           Materials for           materials for the        posters, covers and
           Information campaign    campaign (expert         advertisement materials
           "Stop Domestic          preparation of           for Information
           Violence against        brochures, leaflets,     campaign "Stop
           Women"                  posters, covers and      Domestic Violence
                                   advertisement            against Women"
                                   materials)
                                   delivered in 12/2007 ­
                                   3/2008 to MOLSAF
                                   Department of
                                   Gender Equality and
                                   Equal Opportunities
                                   and used by MOLSAF
                                   and cooperating
                                   NGOs
C.3.2.2.   Printing of             Printing and             Printed and distributed    24 831,00
           Information Materials   distribution of the      information materials
           for Information         information materials    (brochures, leaflets,
           campaign "Stop          delivered in 12/2007 ­   posters, covers and
           Domestic Violence       2/2008 to MOLSAF         advertisement materials)
           against Women           Department of            for Information
                                   Gender Equality and      campaign "Stop
                                   Equal Opportunities,     Domestic Violence
                                   outputs have been        against Women"
                                   used by MOLSAF and
                                   cooperating NGOs
C.3.2.2.- Pasting of Posters for   Distribution and         Distributed posters for    21 687,00
II        Information campaign     placement /pasting of    Information campaign
          "Stop Domestic           posters for the          "Stop Domestic Violence
          Violence against         information campaign     against Women"
          Women"                   delivered in 12/2007 ­
                                   2/2008 to MOLSAF
                                   Department of
                                   Gender Equality and
                                   Equal Opportunities,
                                   outputs have been
                                   used by MOLSAF and
                                   cooperating NGOs
C.4.&5. System of electronic       Creation and delivery    Implemented system of      55 288,00
        Registration of            of a system of           automatic reports of the
        incoming and               automatic reports of     registry and a
        outgoing                   the registry and a       management document
        Correspondence of          management               and system for archiving
        the Centre of              document and system      and management of
        International              for archiving and        incoming and out coming
        Protection of Children     management of            data of the alimony
        and Youth, MOLSAF,         incoming and out         payments.
        System of automatic        coming data of the
        reports of the registry    alimony payments,
        and document               delivered in 1-6/2009
        management of the          to Centre of
        Centre of                  International
        International              Protection of

ICR-HCTA Project                               85
           Protection of Children   Children and Youth,
           and Youth and            MOLSAF, systems are
           System for storage       used by the Centre
           and processing of data
           on incoming and
           outgoing payments of
           alimony
C.7.1.2.   Preparation,             Expert development        Prepared and distributed      46 086,00
&          manufacturing and        of the information        tools, materials, DVDs
7.2.1.     distribution of info     materials on transfer     and brochures to the
           materials and related    to EURO currency in       specified target groups in
           trainings about          Slovakia for socially     accordance with required
           transfer to EURO for     vulnerable groups ­       specifications.
           disadvantaged people     brochure in Braille
                                    printing, brochure into
                                    the easy-to-read
                                    language (for seniors,
                                    Roma minority and
                                    other risk and
                                    vulnerable citizens
                                    groups). Distribution
                                    of 5,000 brochures in
                                    the easy-to-read
                                    language to the
                                    specified target
                                    groups with mental
                                    disorders.
                                    Development of tools
                                    and preparation of
                                    materials for
                                    production of the
                                    brochure in Braille
                                    printing (1 100
                                    pieces) and for DVD
                                    for deaf people (2 000
                                    pieces).
                                    delivered in 9 -
                                    12/2008 to MOLSAF
                                    Department for
                                    Communication and
                                    PR in Connection
                                    with Transfer to Euro
                                    Currency,
                                    outputs/materials
                                    have been used by
                                    MOLSAF and sector
                                    institutions
C.7.1.1.   Supporting Activities    Printing and              Printed and distributed       44 187,00
1.         in Connection with       distribution of 2,9       2,9 mil. pieces of leaflets
           the Transfer to Euro     mil. pieces of leaflets   (16 types of leaflets - on
           Currency in              (16 types of leaflets -   state support and
           Conditions of Sector     on state support and      allowances for various
           of Labour, Social        allowances for            citizens groups ­
           Affairs and Family-      various citizens          minorities, seniors,
           Information              groups ­ minorities,      disadvantaged, migrants,
           Materials: leaflets      seniors,                  pensions, etc).

ICR-HCTA Project                                 86
                                   disadvantaged,          -Results: outputs
                                   migrants, pensions,     delivered in 9 - 10/2008
                                   etc), outputs/materials to MOLSAF Department
                                   have been used by       for Communication and
                                   MOLSAF and sector       PR in Connection with
                                   institutions            Transfer to Euro
                                                           Currency ­
                                                           outputs/materials have
                                                           been used by MOLSAF
                                                           and sectoral institutions.
C.7.1.1.   Supporting Activities   Printing and            Printed and distributed           12 260,00
2.         in Connection with      distribution 70 000     70 000 pieces of
           the Transfer to Euro    pieces of brochures (2 brochures (2 types of
           Currency in             types of brochures on brochures on steps
           Conditions of Sector    steps related to the    related to the EURO
           of Labour, Social       EURO currency           currency transfer,
           Affairs and Family-     transfer, applicable in applicable in the social
           Information             the social sector, and sector, and special
           Materials: brochures    special brochure in     brochure in "universal
                                   "universal language" language" on influence
                                   on influence of the     of the EURO currency
                                   EURO currency           introduction).
                                   introduction),
                                   delivered in 9 -
                                   10/2008 to MOLSAF
                                   Department for
                                   Communication and
                                   PR in Connection
                                   with Transfer to Euro
                                   Currency,
                                   outputs/materials
                                   have been used by
                                   MOLSAF and sector
                                   institutions

MOE
No.        Activity Title           Objective/Key                  Key Results            Disbursed
                                       Outputs                                          Amount in EUR
C.2.3.     Design of Quality   System of Basic               Designed System of              44 631,00
           Assurance System of Categories of                 Basic Categories and
           Research and        Evaluation of Quality         their Measurable
           Development Outputs Outputs of Research           Indicators and
                               and Development and           Methodology of Quality
                               their Measurable              Assessment of Outputs
                               Indicators.                   are used by MOE in full
                               Methodology of
                               Quality Assessment
                               of Outputs of
                               Research and
                               Development,
                               delivered in 12/2007­
                               4 /2008 to MOE
                               Section of Science and
                               Technology, fully used
                               by MOE and Statistics
                               Office of the SR

ICR-HCTA Project                                87
C.2.3.-II Characteristics of      Development of           Elaborated characteristics 51 000,00
          System Measures in      characteristics and      and assessment of
          Area of Incentives in   assessment of positive   impacts of the stimuli
          Research and            impacts of the stimuli   development are now
          Development and         of research and          used for preparation of
          their Influence on      development focused      relevant legislation,
          Economics in            mainly on the            methodology and criteria
          Entrepreneurial         entrepreneurial sector   for evaluation of
          Organisations of        and the assumptions      applications for stimulus
          Research and            of the impacts on the    (in accordance with new
          Development             economy of the           act about stimulus for
                                  Slovak Republic.         research and
                                  Training for             development No
                                  employees directly       185/2009).
                                  involved in the
                                  implementation of the    - assessment of impacts
                                  assessment of the        on the economy of the
                                  impacts of the stimuli   Slovak Republic will be
                                  in research and          used in the future
                                  development,             - 5 employees trained
                                  delivered in 2-5/2009
                                  to MOE Section of
                                  Science and
                                  Technology, fully used
                                  by MOE




ICR-HCTA Project                              88
SECTION IV.            IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT - FINANCIAL DATA

IV.1. PROJECT COSTS

Expenditures by categories
                                                                               in EUR
       According to the Categories        MOLSAF          MOE           MOE + MOLSAF
Goods                                      207 343,14            0,00        207 343,14
Consultants' services, trainings &
workshops                                 1 999 040,77   1 686 457,51       3 685 498,28
Operating Costs                              74 056,30           0,00          74 056,30
Front-end-fee                                15 000,00      10 000,00          25 000,00
TOTAL excl.FEF                            2 280 440,21   1 686 457,51       3 966 897,72
TOTAL                                     2 295 440,21   1 696 457,51       3 991 897,72

Expenditures by Components
                                                                               in EUR
      According to the Components         MOLSAF          MOE           MOE + MOLSAF
A.                                          474 558,98    581 256,17        1 055 815,14
B.                                        1 191 412,21    917 188,40        2 108 600,61
C.                                          540 412,72    188 012,94          728 425,66
O.                                           74 056,30          0,00           74 056,30
Front-end-fee                                15 000,00     10 000,00           25 000,00
TOTAL excl. FEF                           2 280 440,21   1 686 457,51       3 966 897,72
TOTAL                                     2 295 440,21   1 696 457,51       3 966 897,72




ICR-HCTA Project                     89
SECTION V. CONCLUSIONS



Based on the assessment of completed implemented activities of both beneficiaries and their
further development by the ministries themselves described above, the Project facilitated
modernization and development of reforms in the MOLSAF and the MOE.

Elaboration and further implementation of key outputs as process maps, quality managements
systems, HRD strategies, statistic indicators and methodologies, investment in human
resources by staff trainings and their participation in international conferences, seminars,
upgraded human and institutional capacities of participating institutions etc. developed
institutional capacity for evidence based policy of both beneficiaries, allowed improvement of
existing processes and management systems of both project beneficiaries, improvement of
quality of human resources, identify training needs, create instruments to attracts researchers,
develop effective mechanisms to improve evidence-based management, improvement of
quality and quantity of internationally comparable data available to policy makers in both
MOLSAF and MOE etc.

Reached key outputs describe above are sustainable.

V.2.    The assessment of the action of the World Bank team

The performance of the World Bank team assigned to the project has been regarded by both
project beneficiaries as active, cooperative and profitable. The support provided by the Bank
experts has been considered as friendly, timely and helpful.

Based on the above said, the results of the project could be judged as satisfactory




ICR-HCTA Project                            90
Annex 1. Summary Institutional Arrangements 2005 ­ 2009

                                     SK 7271 HCTA Project ­ Institutional Arrangements


                       Loan Agreement                     2005                        2006                 2007                        2008 - 2009
                                                                             (after parliamentary
                                                                            elections in 6/2006 and
                                                                           change of the Government
                                                                                   in 7/2006)
Overall            Ministry of Labour, Social   MOLSAF                     MOLSAF                   MOLSAF                      MOLSAF
responsibility     Affairs and Family
                   (MOLSAF)
Borrower           Ministry of Finance          Ms. Katarína Kaszazsová    Ms. Katarína Kaszazsová    Ms. Katarína Kaszazsová   Ms. Katarína Kaszazsová
                   (MOF)
Beneficiaries      MOLSAF - State               Mr. Miroslav Beblavý       Viera Tomanová             Ms. Viera Tomanová        Ms. Viera Tomanová
official           Secretary                    (State Secretary,          (Minister of Labour,
Representatives                                 MOLSAF)                    Social Affairs and Family)

                                                Mr. Peter Mederly          Mr. Frantisek Schlosser    Mr. Frantisek Schlosser   Mr. Frantisek Schlosser
                   Ministry of Education        (Head of Administration,   (Head of Administration,
                   (MOE) - Head of              MOE)                       MOE)
                   Administration
World Bank         -                            Ms. Mary Canning           Mr. Michael Mertaugh       Mr. Toby Linden           Mr. Alberto Rodriguez
Team Leader




ICR-HCTA Project                           91
Annex 2.     PROJECT ACTIVITIES SUMMARY
MOLSAF activities:
 Item              Description      Contracted Amount Contract signing               Contract          Contract Amount         Consultant / Contractor
  No.                                     (EUR)                                     completion       (currency of contract)        (nationality)

Total Loan Amount ­ MOLSAF part                        3 000 000 EUR
Front End Fee ­ MOLSAF part                               15 000 EUR
Loan Amount ­ MOLSAF part                              2 985 000 EUR

MOLSAF ­ not used Loan funds                            704 559 EUR
     MOLSAF- not used Loan funds                        665 959 EUR
     (category: Consulting Services &
     Trainings)
     MOLSAF- not used Loan funds                         38 599 EUR
     (Goods category)

     Implemented Activities / Contracts:         2 280 441 EUR
Component 1- Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework
A.1 Institutional Assessment
A.1.8. Process Audit of the Ministry of Labour,     29 738 EUR           plan:      10.VI.2009              Contracted         Deloitte Advisory s.r.o.
         Social Affairs and Family of the Slovak                       XI.2008        (original            99 127 EUR         (SK)
         Republic ­ optimization of the                                   real:       contract)      - realisation restricted
         organisation structure                                        9.II.2009   /restricted to:       to 30% amount:
                                                                                    30.IV.2009           29 738,10 EUR
A.1.9.   Unified System for Evaluation of                88 500 EUR      plan:      10.VI.2009           88 500,00 EUR        Consortium Slovenská
         Quality Management for Sector of                              XII.2008                                               spolo nos pre kvalitu ­
         Labour, Social Affairs and Family ­                              real:                                               Slovak Society of Quality
         analysis and identification of optimal                        9.II.2009                                              (SK) + Slovenské centrum
         model, MOLSAF                                                                                                        produktivity ­Slovak
                                                                                                                              Centre of Productivity
                                                                                                                              (SK)
A.2 Project Coordination and Sustainability
A.2.3.1. Ad hoc Consultant on Assignments on              4 000 EUR    17.V.2005   23.XII.2005            4 000 EUR           Mr. Miroslav Mensík (CZ)




ICR-HCTA Project                                  92
         Investment in HR - MOLSAF
A.2.3.2. Ad hoc consulting on Assignments on         1 650 EUR      15.II.2006       (15.IX.2007)   from contracted 6 270 Mr. Miroslav Mensík (CZ)
         Investment in Human Resources, 2006-                                       terminated by      disbursed 1 650
         7 yrs - MOLSAF                                                                MOLSAF
                                                                                      30.XI.2006
A.2.3.3. Ad-hoc Consultant in Issues of Social        2 159 EUR     18.I.2007          18.I.2008       from contracted     Ms. Alena Schinglerová
         Network Policy, Disadvantaged and                                                               168 000 Sk        (SK)
         Marginalised Groups, and Cooperation                                                        disbursed 72 450 Sk
         with NGOs - MOLSAF
A.2.4.1. HCTA Project Director - MOLSAF              47 413 EUR     28.II.2005        30.VI.2008       from contracted     Ms. Renáta Králiková
                                                                                    terminated by        3 638 000 Sk      (SK)
                                                                                      MOLSAF:           (cca. 95 486 )
                                                                                      30.XI.2006     disbursed 47 413
A.2.4.2. Assistant to HCTA Project Director -        18 952 EUR     1.III.2005        28.II.2006       from contracted     Ms. Stefánia Komarcová
         MOLSAF                                                                      amendment:          750 400 Sk        (SK)
                                                                                     31.XII.2006    disbursed 711 900 Sk
A.2.4.3. Project Management Assistant to             15 392 EUR   plan: IV.2007      31.XII.2007        480 000 SKK        Ms. Sandra Salamonová
         Project Coordination Unit -for HCTA                      real: 27.VI.07     amendments                            (SK)
         project - MOLSAF                                         start: 1.VII.07     extension:
                                                                                     30.VI.2008,
                                                                                      30.VI.2009
A.2.4.4. Financial Manager to the Project            25 921 EUR   plan: XII.2007      30.VI.2008        793 602 SKK        Mr. Ján Kraj i (SK)
         Coordination Unit - MOLSAF                                real: 1.I.2008   Amendments-
                                                                  signed 5.II.08      extension:
                                                                                      30.VI.2009
A.2.6.1 HCTA Procurement Specialist -                13 032 EUR     15.II.2005        30.IX.2006     (orig. 274 800 SKK)   Ms. Martina Tichá (SK)
        MOLSAF                                                                       amendment            5 100 EUR
                                                                                      31.X.2006        + 297 700 SKK

A.2.6.2 Procurement Consultant for HCTA              19 646 EUR     1.XI.2006       31.XII.2007         662 760 SKK        Ms. Martina Tichá (SK)
        Project - MOLSAF
A.2.6.3 Director of the Project Coordination         56 326 EUR   plan: 1.I.2008    30.VI.2008         1 728 000 SKK       Ms. Martina Tichá (SK)
        Unit and PCU Procurement Specialist-                      real: 1.I.2008    Amendment-




ICR-HCTA Project                                93
         MOLSAF                                                signed 1.II.08     extension:
                                                                                  30.VI.2009
A.2.7.   Workshops and Discussion Forums -        21 931 EUR      V. 2005          VI.2006          21 931 EUR      direct costs
         MOLSAF
A.2.7.- Moderator for "Workshop on toolkits         424 EUR      24.III.2006      10.IV.2006        16 000 SKK      Mr. Gabriel Bianchi (SK)
1.       for HR managers and line managers
         from social affairs and employment
         sector (April 4, 2006)" MOLSAF
A.2.7.- Ad Hoc Legal Advisor - MOLSAF               196 EUR      24.X.2005        31.XII.2006       15 000 SKK      Mr. Ivan Klementis (SK)
0.5&6
A.2.7.- Logistic Coordinator of "Reconciliation   31 198 EUR      2.V.2006        12.VI.2006       2 257 360 SKK    AJS Management Slovakia
4.       of Work and Family Life with Emphasis                                                                      (SK)
         on Care Services" International
         Conference, 5/2006, Bratislava -
         MOLSAF
A.2.7. Logistic Coordinator for Conferences in    27 228 EUR    19.IV.2007         31.V.2008        850 850 SKK     AJS Management Slovakia
-5.techs 2007-2008 , MOLSAF                                                       Amendment-                        (SK)
                                                                                   extension:
                                                                                  30.XI.2008
A.2.7.- Reimbursement of direct costs of          13 904 EUR     1.IV.2008        30.VI.2008        437 494 SKK     direct costs
5.2soe conference "Management Pro - Gender
        and Pro- Family Relationships" ­ 15
        May 2008, Bratislava, MOLSAF
A.2.7. Training on prevention and elimination      4 785 EUR     25.V.2007         31.X.2007        160 000 SKK     Záujmové zdru enie ien
-6.cons of violence against women for                                                                               Fenestra (SK)
        employees of Offices of Labour, Social
        Affairs and Family, departments of
        Social Affairs and Family (MOLSAF)
A.2.8. Project Audit (jointly with Social         25 623 EUR    plan:XII.2005      30.VI.2008          original     Pricewaterhouse Coopers
        Benefits Reform Administration                         real: 7.III.2006     extension       558 705 SKK     Slovensko (SK)
        Project) 3-year contract) - MOLSAF                                         30.IX.2008        + extension
                                                                                   30.VI.2009      by 279 353 SKK
                                                                                  extension till




ICR-HCTA Project                             94
                                                                                     30.VI.2009
                                                                                     Extension:
                                                                                    31.VIII.2009
A.2.10. Logistic Coordinator for Conferences in    19 278 EUR      2.II.2009         15.VI.2009         19 278,00 EUR          AJS Management Slovakia
techs    February ­ May 2009 (MOLSAF)                                                                                          s.r.o. (SK)
Component 2 - Investment in Human Resources
B.1. Improvement of HR Management Systems
B.1.1.1. Initial Assessment, Planning and          62 686 EUR     24.VI.2005          31.I.2006         2 408 000 SKK          M.C.TRITON Slovakia
         Trainings for Human Resource                                                  amend.:                                 (SK)
         Management within the Employment                                            31.III.2006,
         and Social Affairs Sector - MOLSAF                                          30.VI.2006,
                                                                                    15.VIII.2006
B.1.1.   Human Resources Development for           61 442 EUR         plan:           3.VI.2009            Contracted          TIMAN s.r.o.(SK)
- II.A   MOLSAF, Central Office of LSAF and                         IX.2008            (original         102 404 EUR
         National Labour Inspectorate-                               signed:           contract)      realisation restricted
         MOLSAF                                                    10.X.2008        /restricted to:             to:
                                                                       start         30.IV.2009        60%: 61 442 EUR
                                                                   3.XI.2008
B.1.3.   MIS Consultant (software) - Analyses of   25 847 EUR     plan:II.2006       31.XII.2007      contracted sum 64        Centire (SK)
         Management Information Software                        real: 15.II.2007    (cancelled by             617 ,            (until V.2007, the
         within Employment and Social Affairs                                         MOLSAF:          disbursements: 25       company´s commercial
         Sector) - MOLSAF                                                              VIII.07)               847              name was:
                                                                                                         (agreement of         S&K Management)
                                                                                                      MOLSAF& firm-in
                                                                                                             IX.07)
B.1.5.   Purchase of Tests for measuring            3 004 EUR     plan: III.2007    31.VIII.2007         101 328 SKK           Psychodiagnostika, a.s.
         personality of applicants as part of                   real: 20.VII.2007                                              (SK)
         selection procedure within the social
         affairs and employment sector (SW) -
         MOLSAF
B.2 Staff Training and Development
B.2.1.1. Assessment of Training Needs of New       36 652 EUR     20.VII.2005         31.I.2006           36 652 EUR           AJG European
         Managers and Field Assistance to New                                          amend:                                  Consulting (SK)




ICR-HCTA Project                              95
        Managers - MOLSAF                                                              31.III.2006,                        (until 10/2005, the
                                                                                        15.V.2006                          company´s name was:
                                                                                                                            Jenewein & Partners
                                                                                                                           European Consulting)
B.2.1.2. Assessment of Policymaking Capacity          80 000 EUR     plan:XII.2005     30.VI.2006         80 000 EUR       IOS Partners Inc.(USA)
         in Governmental and Non-governmental                            actual:         amend:
         Sector within the Social and                                 25.XI.2005       31.VII.2006
         Employment Policy Area and
         Recommendations for Enhancing this
         Capacity - MOLSAF
B.2.1.3. Education Policy in Sector of Labour,       101 713 EUR   plan: IV.2008       15.XII.2008      3 070 200 SKK      TIMAN s.r.o.(SK)
         Social Affairs and Family - analyses of                 real: 30.IV.2008
         non formal education - MOLSAF                           start: 15.V.2008
B.2.1.4. Consultant for Activities related to          8 666 EUR   plan: II.2008       30.VI.2008        269 000 SKK       Mr. Ján Galás (SK)
         Development of Human Resources for                      signed:25.I.2008
         MOLSAF Administration Office -                           start: 1.II.2008
         MOLSAF
B.2.2. Training, Workshops, Scholarships,          163 314,84 EUR        2005          30.VI.2009       163 314,84 EUR
MOLSA Research Grants for MOLSAF (2005-
F        2009)
B.2.2.1. Thematic Review: "School-to-Work-            80 000 EUR      24.XI.2005       30.VI.2007         80 000 EUR       OECD
         Transition" project - MOLSAF                                                                                      (Intl., France)
B.2.2.2. Language Course for Human Resource            5 082 EUR      plan:II.2006      20.I.2007     orig.(224 553 SKK +  Interlingua, jazykovy
         Managers from Employment and Social                        real: 19.IV.2006     amend.:            810 GBP)       klub74 (SK)
         Affairs Sector- MOLSAF                                                        20.III.2007    amend: 179 654 SKK
B.2.2.3. "Programme for the International             20 000 EUR      29.V.2006        30.XII.2008         20 000 EUR     OECD (Intl., France)
         Assessment of Adult Competencies"
         (PIAAC) project - MOLSAF
B.2.2.- Trainings for the Centre for the               4 345 EUR      17.III.2009      28.IV.2009         4 345 EUR        STAKER, s.r.o. (SK)
6.2.soe International Legal Protection of
MOLSA Children and Youth: "Professional
F        Development of the Mediator"
B.2.3.1. Assistance in Long-term Development          52 860 EUR      26.IX.2005       15.III.2006       2 061 080 Sk      M.C.TRITON Slovakia




ICR-HCTA Project                              96
        of Social Development Fund -                                                    amend:                           (SK)
        MOLSAF                                                                       30.IV.2006,
                                                                                     31.XII.2006,
                                                                                      30.VI.2007
                                                                                      30.IX.2007
B.2.3.2. Strategy for Enhancement of Expert         32 850 EUR    plan:III.2006      31.XII.2007         32 850 EUR      VVMZ East European
         Dialogue in the field of Social Affairs                 real: 1.VI.2007                                         Investment Service B.V.
         and Employment - MOLSAF                                                                                         (NL)
B.2.3.3. Assistance in Improvement of              130 000 EUR    plan: V.2007        31.V.2008          130 000 EUR     IOS Partners Europe
         Institutional and Personal Capacity for                 real: 1.X.2007                                          s.r.o.(SK)
         Social Inclusion Services - MOLSAF                        start:1.XI.07
B.2.3.4. Strategy for Long-term Development of      23 825 EUR    plan: X.2007       plan: XII.2007      753 270 SKK     AJS Management
-I.      Centre for International Legal                          real: 6.XI.2007    real: 31.III.2008                    Slovakia (SK)
         Protection of Children and Youth -                       start: 7.I.2008        amend:
         MOLSAF                                                                        30.IV.2008
B.2.5.1. Media communication training for top      116 606 EUR    plan: X.2008        10.VI.2009        116 606,25 EUR   partnership of
         MOLSAF management - MOLSAF                              real: 26.I.2009                                         companies:FreeCom
                                                                                                                         Slovakia (SK), FreeCom
                                                                                                                         Group (CZ), DIVYD
                                                                                                                         (SK)
B.2.10. Trainings for Social Implementation         69 294 EUR   plan: V.2008        15.VIII.2008        69 294 EUR      consortium:
        Agency for Efficient Communication                     real: 25.IV.2008                                          EUROFORMES, s.r.o
        Processes in Successful Implementation                        start:                                             (SK) + ALA BAMA
        of ESF Projects - MOLSAF                                   1.V.2008                                              s.r.o.(SK)
B.3.1. Reimbursement of direct costs of             26 819 EUR arrangements,          15.X.2008          814 903 SKK     reimbursement of direct
soe     Ministerial conference focused on                      preparation from                                          costs of the conference
        incoming foreign labour force in the                      1.IV.2008                                              (estimated: 1 250 000 Sk,
        EU new member states "From the                                                                                   real: 814 902,70 Sk)
        Shortage of Job Opportunities to the
        Shortage of Qualified Labour Force" ,
        25-26 Sept 2008, Bratislava, MOLSAF
B.3.2. Conference "Readiness of the LSAF             8 319 EUR   plan: VIII.2008      15.X.2008          252 414 SKK     reimbursement of direct
soe     resort for the transfer to Euro currency                                                                         costs of the conference




ICR-HCTA Project                              97
         in connection with vulnerable (risk)                                                                      (estimated: 320 000 Sk,
         groups of citizens" 10/2008, Bratislava,                                                                  real: 252 413,80Sk)
         MOLSAF
B.3.3. Seminars for employees of Labour,             16 835 EUR    plan: VIII.2009   20.XII.2008   424 060 SKK     reimbursement of direct
soe      Social Affairs and Family sector                         real: 14.XI.2008                                 costs - seminars in 4
         "Preparation of the LSAF resort for the                                                                   regions, for cca 200
         transfer to Euro currency"(direct costs),                                                                 persons in total
         Nov-Dec 2008, MOLSAF
B.3.4. Reimbursement of direct costs of "2nd          5 757 EUR    19.VIII.2008      31.X.2008     174 192 SKK     reimbursement of direct
soe      International Conference RESEARCH                                                                         costs of the conference
         INTO PRACTICE KNOWLEDGE                                                                                   (estimated: 203 000 Sk,
         TRANSFER FOR SOCIAL WORK                                                                                  real: 174 192 Sk)
         PRACTITIONERS AND
         MANAGERS"(October 23-24, 2008,
         Trnava University,Trnava / MOLSAF
B.4.3.1. Reimbursement of direct costs of            20 161 EUR      5.II.2009       28.II.2009     20 161 EUR     reimbursement of direct
soe      International Conference ,,Solidarity at                                                                  costs
         the time of the Global Financial Crises"
         (20 February 2009, Bratislava)
B.4.3.2. Direct costs of International Conference    35 333EUR     arrangements,     15.VI.2009    35 333,33 EUR   reimbursement of direct
soe      ,,Pension systems at the time of global                  preparation from                                 costs (estimated:56 500
         financial crisis" (4 May 2009,                              6.III.2009                                     )
         Bratislava). MOLSAF                                         realization
                                                                       V.2009
Component 3 - Building and Upgrading Institutional Capacity
C.1 Policy Formulation
C.1.2.1 Design of Costing Methodology and           48 750 EUR plan:XI.2005           actual:       48 750 EUR     consortium:
        Impact Assessment Methodology -                        actual:12.XII.20     30.IV.2006                     VVMZ (NL) + TNO
        MOLSAF                                                        05              amend/                       (NL)+
                                                                                    31.V.2006                      M.E.S.A.10 (SK)
                                                                                   31.XII.2006
C.2 Improve Information Base for Social Policy Formulation and Monitoring & Evaluation
C.2.1.1. Design of Methodology on Labour            38 828 EUR    11.VII.2005       30.XI.2005      40 000 EUR     SEO Economic Research




ICR-HCTA Project                                98
        Market Data and Indicators - MOLSAF                                              amend:                        /
                                                                                       28.II.2006,                     Mr. Arjan Heyma
                                                                                       28.IV.2006                      (Netherlands)
C.2.1.2. 1. Advising on Concept of Absolute           46 429 EUR     4.VII.2005        30.V.2006       48 330 EUR      Oxford Policy
         Poverty Line in Slovakia                                                    amend:30.VI.200                   Management / Mr.
         2. Application of the Concept of                                                   6                          Ludovico Carraro (United
         Absolute Poverty Line (MOLSAF)                                                                                Kingdom)
C.2.1.3. Evaluation & Monitoring of                   21 893 EUR    24.VI.2005         30.IX.2005      24 625 EUR      Mr. Paolo Verme (Italy)
1        Programmes and Institutions within the
         Employment and Social Affairs -
         Design of System of Indicators -
         MOLSAF
C.2.1.3. Evaluation & Monitoring of                     218 EUR      4.VII.2005        15.IX.2005        218 EUR       CASE- Center for Social
-2       Programmes and Institutions within the                                       terminated by                    and Economic Research /
         Employment and Social Affairs -                                                MOLSAF                         Mr. Bart omiej
         Design of Human Resource Strategy of                                          21.VII.2005                     Piotrowski (Poland)
         the Evaluation and Monitoring Centre -
         MOLSAF
C.2.1.3. Evaluation & Monitoring of                   34 720 EUR    24.XI.2005          28.II.2006     40 000 EUR      Everywhere Associates /
2-II     Programmes and Institutions within the                                                                        Mr. Barry J. Bannister
         Employment and Social Affairs -                                                                               (Australia)
         Design of Human Resource Strategy of
         the Evaluation and Monitoring Centre -
         MOLSAF
C.2.1.3. Design of System of Evaluation of            55 028 EUR   plan:XII.2005       30.IV.2006       97 709 USD     Universalia Management
3        Institutions Directly Subordinated to                         actual:                          total amount   Group (Canada)
         MOLSAF, and of MOLSAF´s Programs                           28.XI.2005                          decreased by
         & Initiatives                                                                                 amendment to
                                                                                                        70 857 USD
C.2.1.4. Analysis of Project Grants Applicants        77 026 EUR    plan: IV.2008     15.VIII.2008      77 026 EUR     AJG Consulting (SK)
         from the 3rd Sector-NGOs - MOLSAF                         real: 2.IV.2008
C.3.2.1. Expert Development of Information            13 182 EUR      9.XI.2007        15.III.2008     400 000 SKK     Aliancia ien Slovenska ­
         Materials for Information campaign                                                                            NGO (Alliance of Slovak




ICR-HCTA Project                                 99
          "Stop Domestic Violence against                                                                                 Women) (SK)
          Women" - MOLSAF
C.3.2.2. Printing of Information Materials for        24 831 EUR      9.XI.2007        20.II.2008       793 290 SKK       IQ DESIGN Studio
          Information campaign "Stop Domestic                                                                             (SK)
          Violence against Women" - MOLSAF
C.3.2.2.- Distribution and Emplacement /Pasting       21 687 EUR     29.XI.2007        31.III.2008      703 766 SKK       IQ DESIGN Studio
II.       of Posters for Information campaign                                                                             (SK)
          "Stop Domestic Violence against
          Women" - MOLSAF
C.4.&5. System of electronic Registration of          55 288 EUR     plan: X.2008      31.V.2009       (orig. 49 337,29 4 Cubes, s.r.o.
          incoming and outgoing Correspondence                     real: 15.XII.2008 amend-extension     +20.III.2009   (SK)
          of the Center of International Protection                                    19.VI.2009    amendment 5 950 =)
          of Children and Youth,                                                                          55 287,29
          System of automatic reports of the
          registry and document management of
          the Center of International Protection of
          Children and Youth and
          System for storage and processing of
          data on incoming and outgoing
          payments of alimony (MOLSAF SR)
C.7.1.2. Development, Production and                  46 086 EUR    plan: VIII.2008    10.XII.2008     1 413 910 SKK      Národná rada ob anov so
&C.7.2. Distribution of Information Materials on                   real: 23.IX.2008                                       zdravotným postihnutím
1.        Transfer to EURO Currency for Socially                                                                          v SR (National Council
          Vulnerable Groups, and Related                                                                                  of Disabled Citizens in
          Training (MOLSAF)                                                                                               SR)
                                                                                                                          (SK)
C.7.1.1. Supporting Activities in Connection          44 187 EUR    plan:VIII.2008                     1 344 700 SKK      REDHOUSE promotion,
1.       with the Transfer to Euro Currency in                           real:                                            s.r.o. (SK)
         Conditions of Sector of Labour, Social                      27.VIII.2008
         Affairs and Family- Information
         Materials: leaflets (MOLSAF)
C.7.1.1. Supporting Activities in Connection          12 260 EUR    plan: VII.2008     30.IX.2008       369 971 SKK       Grand Print Plus,
2.       with the Transfer to Euro Currency in                     real: 24.VII.2008                                      s.r.o.(SK)




ICR-HCTA Project                                100
       Conditions of Sector of Labour, Social
       Affairs and Family- Information
       Materials: brochures (MOLSAF)
Operating Costs & Office Equipment for Project Management
O.1.   HCTA Financial Manager                      15 465 EUR        23.III.2005       30.X.2005        577 100 SKK    Ms. Katarina Demjanova
                                                                                     amendments:                       (Durkacova) (SK)
                                                                                      30.IV.2006,
                                                                                     31.VII.2006,
                                                                                      30.IX.2006,
                                                                                     31.XII.2006,
                                                                                      30.VI.2007,
                                                                                      31.XII.2007
O.2.    HCTA office equipment -PCs,                   8 355 EUR      15.IV.2005        15.V.2005         8 355 EUR     DATALAN (SK)
        printer,copy machine
O.3.    Air Condition                                   290 EUR      24.VI.2005      15.VII.2005           11 305 SKK      KKG nemec (SK)
O.4.    Translations for Human Capital               25 641 EUR      18.VII.2005      31.I.2007      original 771 360 SKK, AJS MANAGEMENT
        Technical Assistance Project -                                                 amend.:            (total amount    Slovakia (SK)
        MOLSAF                                                                       20.VI.2007       increased by amend:)
                                                                                                         1 021 360 SKK
O.5.    Operating costs - advertisements,          24 305,95 EUR                                         24 305,95 EUR
        stationery, etc.

Activities not implemented
A.1.10. Optimalization of the recruitment and        80 000 EUR        plan:         plan: VI.2009                     new activity approved by
         selection of employees and the                               IV.2009                                          HCTA Steering
         motivation system of the employees of                                                                         Committee on 7 Oct
         MOLSAF SR                                                 not implemented                                     2008. On 9 March 2009
                                                                                                                       MOLSAF decided to
                                                                                                                       cancel this activity.
A.1.11. Optimalization of the management and         20 000 EUR      plan:I.2009     plan: VI.2009                     new activity estimated
        maintenance system of the                                                                                      20 000 , approved by
        Administration Office of the MOLSAF                        not implemented                                     HCTA Steering
        SR                                                                                                             Committee on 7 Oct




ICR-HCTA Project                             101
                                                                                                                               2008. On 9 March 2009
                                                                                                                               MOLSAF decided to
                                                                                                                               cancel this activity.
B.2.2.-  Trainings for the Centre for the              2 750 EUR    plan:V.2009       plan: VI.2009       not implemented,     plan: Developium, s.r.o.
6.1.soe  International Legal Protection of                                                              decision of the Centre (SK)
MOLS     Children and Youth: Psychological                         not implemented                         and MOLSAF
AF       education and training "burnout
         syndrome"
B.2.3.3. Assistance in Improvement of                 67 000 EUR                       draft contract                          proposed single source
-II      Institutional and Personal Capacity for                                     submitted to WB                           contract 67 000 with
         Social Inclusion Services - follow-up:                                          29.I.2009                             IOS Europe Partners(SK)
         Support of Legislative Changes) -                                                                                     in 2/2009 not approved
         MOLSAF                                                                      not implemented                           by WB. WB suggested
                                                                                                                               QBS method to select a
                                                                                                                               consultant. On 16.II.
                                                                                                                               2009 MOLSAF decided
                                                                                                                               not to implement this
                                                                                                                               activity.
B.4.4.- Improvement of professional Language         200 000 EUR                          plan:            plan: VI.2009       Activity estimated
II      Competencies of MOLSAF employees                                                 I.2009                                200 000 .On 9 March
                                                                                                                               2009 MOLSAF decided
                                                                                           /not                                to cancel this activity.
                                                                                      implemented
B.5.1.    Elaboration of educational programs for     50 000 EUR                       plan:I.2009         plan: VI.2009       new activity estimated
          MOLSAF SR and National Labour                                                                                        50 000 , approved by
          Inspectorate                                                               not implemented                           HCTA Steering
                                                                                                                               Committee on 7 Oct
                                                                                                                               2008. On 9 March 2009
                                                                                                                               MOLSAF decided to
                                                                                                                               cancel this activity.
C.1.2.4. System for Detecting the Risk of Social      80 000 EUR                     repeated tender           plan:           Originally allocated
         Exclusion and Assessment of                                                  new selection           IV.2009          80,000 EUR. Selection
         Realisation of State Programs Dealing                                       planned: I.2009                           cancelled on 6.V. 2008




ICR-HCTA Project                               102
        with Social Exclusion - MOLSAF                                                                                               (unsatisfactory
                                                                                             cancelled                               consultant´s proposal).
                                                                                                                                     New selection process in
                                                                                                                                     3Q2008.Selection in
                                                                                                                                     X.2008 completed
                                                                                                                                     without any proposal
                                                                                                                                     submitted. Selection in
                                                                                                                                     XI.2008 without
                                                                                                                                     consultant selected.
                                                                                                                                     MOLSAF on 15.I.09
                                                                                                                                     decided not to implement
                                                                                                                                     the activity.
C.6.    Development of Centre of International              4 000 EUR                          plan:              XII.2008           Recommendation from
        Protection of Children and Youth                                                      X.2008                                 completed Strategy for
        Library- purchase of expert                                                                                                  Long-term Development
        publications, accesses, licences                                                  not implemented                            of CIPC,No.B.2.3.4.-I.
        (MOLSAF)
C.7.    Competition skills - participation of the          50 000 EUR                          plan:          (plan: XII.2010)       new activity estimated
        MOLSAF SR in a joint OECD Project                                                     I.2009                                 50 000 , approved by
                                                                                                                                     HCTA Steering
                                                                                          not implemented                            Committee on 7 Oct
                                                                                                                                     2008. In 2/2009
                                                                                                                                     MOLSAF decided not to
                                                                                                                                     participate in OECD
                                                                                                                                     project


MOE activities:
 Item                  Description                   Contracted Amount Contract signing      Contract         Contract Amount         Consultant / Contractor
  No.                                                      (EUR)                            completion      (currency of contract)        (nationality)

Total Loan Amount ­ MOE part                            2 000 000 EUR
Front End Fee ­ MOE part                                   10 000 EUR




ICR-HCTA Project                               103
Loan Amount ­ MOE part                                  1 990 000 EUR

MOE ­ not used Loan funds
      MOE- not used Loan funds (category:             303 542,49 EUR
      Consulting Services & Trainings)

      Implemented Activities / Contracts      1 686 457,51 EUR
Component 1- Creation of a Policy Capacity Framework
A.1 Institutional Assessment
A.1.1. Processes Map for MOE                     69 683 EUR               plan: V.2007      17.XII.2007   2 292 000 SKK    Novitech, a.s. (SK) -
                                                                        real: 10.VII.2007   amendment -                   consortium with Slovenská
                                                                                             extension:                   spolo nos pre kvalitu
                                                                                             31.I.2008                    (Slovak Society of
                                                                                                                          Quality),(SK)
A.1.2.   Inter-institutional Analysis for the          89 175 EUR        plan:IX.2008       30.IV.2009    2 690 000 SKK    consortium: Novitech,
         Ministry of Education of the Slovak                            real: 2.IX.2008                                   a.s.(SK) + Slovenská
         Republic ­ Process Map                                                                                           spolo nos pre kvalitu
                                                                                                                          (SK)
A.1.3.   CAF - Tool of permanent Growth of             62 829 EUR        plan: IV.2008       31.X.2008    1 896 500 SKK    consortium: Slovenská
         Quality and Efficiency of MOE                                       signed:          amend.-                     spolo nos pre kvalitu
         Activities-Benchmarking                                           29.IV.2008        extension:                   (SK) + NOVITECH a.
                                                                        start: 12.V.2008     28.II.2009                   s.(SK)
A.1.4.- Unified System for Evaluation of               43 395 EUR        plan: IV.2008       31.X.2008    1 312 500 SKK    Slovenská spolo nos pre
II.     Quality of Management for Directly                                   signed:                                      kvalitu (SK)
        Managed Institutions of MOE                                        29.IV.2008
                                                                        start: 12.V.2008
A.1.5.   Harmonization /Optimalisation of              97 689 EUR        plan: XII.2008     10.VI.2009    97 689,48 EUR    Deloitte Advisory s.r.o.
         Organization Rules of the MOE with                                  signed :                                     (SK)
         Focus to Processes Ownership and                                   9.II.2009
         related Responsibility
A.1.6.   Harmonization of Descriptions of civil        93 183 EUR        plan: XII.2008     10.VI.2009    93 183,00 EUR    Deloitte Advisory s.r.o.
         Servants Positions and Competences                                  signed:                                      (CZ)
         with organization Rules and defined                               10.II.2009




ICR-HCTA Project                                104
         Processes - MOE
A.2 Project Coordination and Sustainability
A.2.5.1. HCTA Project Coordinator (MOE)             120 380 EUR   signed 3.V.2005     30.VI.2007     4 233 000 SKK   Ms. Alena Soltysová (SK)
                                                                  (start:1.VI.2005)   amendment
                                                                                      -extension:
                                                                                      30.VI.2008,
                                                                                      30.VI.2009
A.2.9. Conference Logistic Coordinator for the       4 922 EUR       22.X.2008        30.XII.2008    148 750 SKK     AJS Management
techs Ministry of Education                                                                                          Slovakia (SK)
Component 2 - Investment in Human Resources
B.1. Improvement of HR Management Systems
B.1.1. Strategy for HR Development, including       85 347 EUR     plan: XI.2008      10.VI.2009     85 346,80 EUR   AJS Management
 - II.B the implementation Plan for MOE -                             signed:                                        Slovakia s.r.o. (SK)
         MOE                                                         11.II.2009
B.1.1.2. Initial Assessment and Planning of HR      49 300 EUR     plan: II.2006      30.V.2007       49 300 EUR     SAPIENT s.r.o. (SK)
         Management for MOE                                           signed:           amend:
                                                                    19.III.2007       30.IX.2007
B.1.4.  Set up of Analysis of Research and          29 622 EUR      15.IX.2008        15.IX.2008     900 000 SKK     Mr. Pavol Büchler (SK)
        Development Potential - MOE
B.2 Staff Training and Development
B.2.1.- Educational Policy in HR Management -       80 142 EUR       9.II.2009        10.VI.2009     80 142,00 EUR   TIMAN s.r.o.(SK)
I.      MOE
B.2.2. Training, Workshops, Scholarships,           164 915 EUR
MOE Research Grants for MOE, (2005-2009)
B.2.2.- Training on "Monitoring and Evaluation      10 330 EUR       8.VI.2009        30.VI.2009      10 330 EUR      Slovenská evalua ná
5.2.    of Programs/Projects " (Bratislava, 29-                                                                      spolo nos o.z./Slovak
MOE 30 June 2009)                                                                                                    Evaluation Society NGO
                                                                                                                     (SK)
B.2.4.   Assistance in Development of Grant         69 020 EUR      plan: X.2007      29.II.2008      69 020 EUR      consortium ETE,
         Schemes - MOE                                                 signed:     amend:30.VI.200                   v.o.s.(SK) + AUREX,
                                                                      5.XI.2007            8                         s.r.o.(SK)
B.2.4.- Assistance in Development of Grant          59 219 EUR      plan: IX.2008     15.I.2009       59 220 EUR      consortium ETE, v.o.s.
II      Schemes for the Ministry of Education                     signed 2.IX.2008   amendment:                      and AUREX, s.r.o.(SK)




ICR-HCTA Project                              105
         SR to support Students, Doctorands and                                       31.III.2009
         Post-Doctorands in Area of Research
         and Development - MOE
B.2.5.   Media Communication Training for top        116 606 EUR     plan: X.2008     10.VI.2009    116 606,25 EUR    partnership of companies:
         MOE Management - MOE                                      signed 26.I.2009                                  FreeCom Slovakia (SK),
                                                                                                                     FreeCom Group (CZ),
                                                                                                                     DIVYD (SK)
B.2.6.   Establishment of Transfer Technology        100 374 EUR      26.II.2008      30.VI.2008    3 040 000 SKK     consortium
         Centres, Start Up, Spin Off, Centres of                                                                     SLOVENSKÉ
         Excellence (MOE)                                                                                            CENTRUM
                                                                                                                     PRODUKTIVITY(SK) +
                                                                                                                     IC2 Institute at The
                                                                                                                     University of Texas
                                                                                                                     (USA)
B.2.7.   Corporate Identity of MOE - MOE             58 090 EUR     plan: V.2008      20.XII.2008   1 758 051 SKK     partnership of companies
                                                                        signed                                       SAPA, s.r.o.(SK)
                                                                      12.V.2008                                      a Mgr. Daniela Haragová
                                                                   start:15.V.2008                                   ­ Tebe(SK)
B.4.1.   Conference "New direction in the             5 157 EUR      14.XI.2008       10.XII.2008     5 157 EUR       reimbursement of direct
soe      promotion of science and technology"                                                                        costs
         (direct costs) December 2008,
         Bratislava, MOE
B.4.2.   Training and interships in connection in     2 147 EUR     plan: XI.2008     31.XII.2008    2 146,72 EUR
soe      connection with transfer to Euro                              signed
         currency in conditions of the                               8.XII.2008
         educational sector (Ljubljana, Slovenia,
         10 ­ 12 December 2008) MOE
B.6.1.   Elaboration of educational programs for     86 650 EUR      plan:I.2009      20.VI.2009     86 650 EUR       consortium:
         MOE                                                          signature:                                     Slovenská spolo nos pre
                                                                     19.III.2009                                     kvalitu (SK) +MASM
                                                                                                                     (SK) + Vivaeduca (SK)
Component 3 - Building and Upgrading Institutional Capacity
C.1 Policy Formulation




ICR-HCTA Project                               106
C.1.3.1. Training of MOE and universities staff     52 200 EUR       5.XI.2007        15.V.2008      1 646 500 SKK   OZ Slovenská spolo nos
         in CAF methodology and elaboration of                                                                       pre kvalitu (SK)
         self evaluation reports - MOE
C.1.3.1. Training of MOE and universities staff     40 182 EUR          signed:       31.III.2009    1 212 500 SKK    Slovenská spolo nos pre
-II      in CAF methodology and elaboration of                        10.X.2008                                      kvalitu / Slovak Society
         self evaluation reports - MOE                             start:15.X.2008                                   of Quality (SK)
C.2.3. Design of Quality Assurance System of        44 631 EUR       plan:X.2007      14.II.2008     1 419 000 SKK    Zväz priemyselných
         Research and Development Outputs -                       signed 1.XI.2007      amend:                       výskumných a
         MOE                                                                          30:IV.2008                     vývojových organizácií
                                                                                                                     (SK)/The Association of
                                                                                                                     Industrial Research and
                                                                                                                     Development
                                                                                                                     Organizations
C.2.3.-II Characteristics of System Measures in     51 000 EUR       3.II.2009        31.V.2009      51 000,00 EUR    Zväz priemyselných
          Area of Incentives in Research and                                                                         výskumných a
          Development and their Influence on                                                                         vývojových organizácií
          Economics in Entrepreneurial                                                                               /The Association of
          Organisations of Research and                                                                              Industrial Research and
          Development, MOE                                                                                           Development
                                                                                                                     Organizations (SK)

Activities not implemented
A.1.7. Actualization of the MOE Process Map         40 000 EUR          plan:           plan:                         Recommendation from
                                                                       I.2009          VI.2009                       completed MOE Process
                                                                                                                     Map. Latest activity
                                                                  not implemented                                    before the HCTA Project
                                                                                                                     Completion. In May 2009
                                                                                                                     MOE decided to cancel
                                                                                                                     this activity
B.4.4.- Improvement of professional Language        100 000 EUR        plan:         plan: VI.2009                    Activity estimated
I.      Competencies of MOE employees                                 IX.2008                                         200 000 -on 6 April
                                                                                                                     2009 MOE decided to
                                                                  not implemented                                    cancel this activity.
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



ICR-HCTA Project                              107
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




ICR-HCTA Project                     108
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

    1. The World Bank Report #30440-ECA ­ Project Appraisal Document for Slovakia
        HCTA Project.
    2. The World Bank Report #ICR0000810 ­ Implementation Completion Report for
        Slovakia Social Benefits Reform Administration Project.
    3. Process Audit of the Ministry of Labor, Social Affairs and Family of the Slovak
        Republic, Deloitte Advisory, Slovakia, April 2009.
    4. Unified System for the Evaluation of Quality Management for the Sector of
        Labor, Social Affairs and Family, Slovak Center of Productivity, April 2009
    5. Process Map for the Ministry of Education, Novitech and Slovak Society for
        Quality, Final version January 2008.
    6. Inter-institutional Analysis for the Ministry of Education, Novitech and the
        Slovak Society for Quality, January 2009.
    7. CAF ­ Tool for Permanent Growth of Quality and Efficiency of MOE Activities ­
        Benchmarking, Novitech and Slovak Society for Quality, Final version Feb. 2009.
    8. Unified System for Evaluation of Quality of Management for Directly Managed
        Institutions of MOE, Slovak Society for Quality, July 2008.
    9. Harmonization of Organization Rules of the MOE with Focus on Processes
        Ownership and Related Responsibilities, Deloitte Advisory, Slovakia, June 2009.
    10. Harmonization of Descriptions of Civil Servant Positions and Competencies with
        Organizational Rules and Defined Processes ­ MOE, Deloitte Advisory, June
        2009.
    11. Initial Assessment for Human Resource Managmeent within MOLSAF, M.C.
        Triton, August, 2005.
    12. Human Resources Development for MOLSAF, Central Office of LSAF and
        National Labor Inspectorate, Timan, December 2008.
    13. Analysis of Management Information Software within Employment and Social
        Affairs Sector ­ MOLSAF, S&K Management, August 2007.
    14. Strategy for HR Development, including Implementation Plan for MOE, AJS
        Management, June 2009.
    15. Initial Assessment and Planning for HR Management for MOE, SAPIENT,
        September 2007.
    16. Set Up of Analysis of Research and Development Potential, Mr. Pavol Buchler,
        September, 2008.
    17. Assessment of Policymaking Capacity in Governmental and Non-governmental
        Sector with the Social and Employment Policy Area and Recommendations for
        Enhancing Capacity, IOS Partners, Final version delivered July 2006.
    18. Education Policy in the Sector of Labor, Social Affairs and Family ­ Analysis of
        Non-formal education. TIMAN, July 2008.
    19. Assistance in the Long-term Development of Social Development Fund ­
        MOLSAF, M.C. Triton, October 2005.
    20. Assistance in Improvement of Institutional and Personnel Capacity for Social
        Inclusion Services, IOS Partners, final version May 2008.
    21. Strategy for the Long-term Development of Center for International Legal
        Protection of Children and Youth, AJS Management, April 2008.



ICR-HCTA Project                          109
    22. Educational Policy in HR Management ­ MOE, TIMAN, June, 2009.
    23. Assistance in the Development of Grant Schemes ­ MOE, Consortium ETE and
        AUREX, December 2007. Second Report, focused on Grant Schemes in
        Research and Development, December 2008.
    24. Establishment of Transfer Technology Centers, Start Up, Spin Off, Centers of
        Excellence -- MOE, Consortium, Slovak Center for Productivity and IC2 Institute
        at University of Texas, USA, June 2009
    25. Corporate Identity of MOE, SAPA, December 2008.
    26. Elaboration of Educational Programs for MOE (personnel), Consortium Slovak
        Society for Quality and Vivaeduca, June 2009.
    27. Design of Costing Methodology and Impact Assessment Methodology ­
        MOLSAF, Consortium VVMZ, TNO and MESA, December 2006.
    28. Design of Methodology on Labor Market Data and Indicators ­ MOLSAF, SEO
        Economic Research, August 2008.
    29. Design of Quality Assurance System of Research and Development Outputs ­
        MOE. The Association of Industrial Research and Development Organizations,
        December 2007.
    30. Characteristics of System Measures in Area of Incentives in Research and
        Development and their Influence on Economics in Entrepreneurial Organizations
        of Research and Development ­ MOE, The Association of Industrial Research
        and Development Organizations, May 2009.
    31. Evaluation and Monitoring of Programs and Institutions within Employment and
        Social Affairs (MOLSAF)­ Design of System of Indicators, Mr. Paolo Verme,
        September, 2005.
    32. Evaluation and Monitoring of Programs and Institutions within Employment and
        Social Affairs (MOLSAF) ­ Design of HR Strategy for Evaluation and
        Monitoring Center, CASE, Sept. 2005 (consultant terminated).
    33. Evaluation and Monitoring of Programs and Institutions within Employment and
        Social Affairs (MOLSAF) ­ Design of HR Strategy for Evaluation and
        Monitoring Center, Everywhere Associates, December 2005
    34. Analysis of Project Grants Applicants from 3rd Sector NGOs, AJG Consulting,
        August 2008.
    35. Design of System of Evaluation of Institutions Directly Subordinated to
        MOLSAF, and of MOLSAF's Programs and Initiatives, Universalia Management,
        December 2005.




ICR-HCTA Project                          110
                                      17°E                                                      18°E                                                   19°E                                               20°E                                           21°E                                           22°E                                23°E

                50°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   POLAND
                                      SLOVAK                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                               Cesky Tesin
                                      REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                To                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                             Rabka                                          To                                               Krosno
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nowy Sacz

                                                                                                                  To                   Cadca                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                Prerov                                                                                      To                                     Krynica                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                              Tvrdosin                   Zakopane                       Stara                                                                     Sanok
                                                                                                                                                Kysucke                                                                              L'bovna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L'bovna                                    Svidnik
                                                                      C Z EC H                       To
                                                                                                                                                Nove Mesto
                                                                                                                                              Zilina                                                                Gerlachovsky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L'ubotin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L'ubotin        Bardejov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Medziaborce C
                                                                                                     Zlin                   Bytca
                                                                                                                                                       ZILINSKY                                                                                                                                            ar
                                                                        R EP.                                                                                    Kral'ovany
                                                                                                                                                                 Kral'
                                                                                                                                                                 Kral'ovany                 Bystra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Stit (2655 m)                                                                               pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     thi
                                                                                                                Puchov         Povazska                                  Vah
                                                                                                                                                                                         (2250 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     V y s o k e Ta t r y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kezmarok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PRESOVSKY                                                        an
                                                                                                                               Bystrica                                                                                                              Spisske                                                                    Mts.
                49°N                                                                                                                                   Martin
                                                                                                                                                       Martin             Ruzomberok                                         Poprad                  Podhradie                                                                              49°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Vazek
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Vazek                                                                                              Snina
                                                            To                                           ty                                                                                                                                                                   Presov           Humenne
                                                      Uherske Hradiste
                                                                                                r   pa                                                                                                                       Spisska
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Torysa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ubl'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ubl'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ubl'a
                                  To
                                                                                           Ka                                        Turcianske
                                                                                                                                     Turcianske           Kor ytnica
                                                                                                                                                          Korytnica                      y                                                      Margecany
                                                                                                                                                                                  Ta t r
                                                                                                         Trencin
                                                                                                         Trencin                                                                                                                 Ves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Nova Ves
                                 Brno a                                                                                                  Teplice
                                                                                                                                         Teplice                                                                                                                                        Vranov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vranov
                                                                                                                                                                                               Hron
                                      v                                             ileT R E N C I A N S K Y                                                             zke
                                                                                B                                                                                  Ni
                                   ra




                                                                                                                           Prievidza
                                 Mo




                                                                                           Nove Mesto                                                                              Brezno                                                Smolnik                                                          Michalovce
                                                          Senica                                                                                                 Banska                                                                                                        Kosice
                                        Kuty
                                                                           ty                             Partizanske
                                                                                                          Partizanske                                            Bystrica                        Tisovec
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tisovec                    Roznava               Moldova
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KOSICKY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To

                                                                  r   pa                                                                           Ziar nad
                                                                                                                                                   Hronom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                nad Bodvou                                          Trebisov
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Trebisov                    Mukachevo

                                                               Ka                           Topol'cany
                                                                                            Topol'cany
                                                                                             opol'                                                               Zvolen
                                                           e                                                                                                                                                                 Sl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UKR AI N E
                                                      al
                                                           TR




                                       Malacky                                                                                                       BANSKOBYSTRICKY                                                                          To                                                 Slovenske
                                                            R
                                                            R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                  M                                 Hlohovec                                               Zarnovica
                                                                                                                                           Zarnovica                                                                                     Kazincbarcika                                           Nove Mesto                 Mukachevo
                                                                N




                                                                                                                   Zlate
                                                                                                                                      on                                                                         Rimavska
                                  B R A T I - Trnava                                                            Moravce             Hr
                                                                   AV




                                              Trnava                                                                                                                                                             Sobota                                               To
                                                                                       h




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Miskolc
                                    AV
                                S L AV S K Y                                                                                                                  Krupina                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                    Va




                                                                                                                                                                                  Lucenec                                                                                              Sarospatak         To
                                                                                                              Nitra
                                                                       S Y
                                                                       S Y
                                                                       SKY




                                                                                                                                    Kozarovce                                                                                                                                                           Cigand
                                                  Pezinok                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                NITRIANSKY                                                                                                                           Miskolc
                                                                                            Sal'a
                                                                                            Sal'a
                                                                                            Sal'                                     Levice
                A U S T RIA Vienna
                              To          BRATISLAVA
                                          BRATISLAVA
                                          BRATISLAV
                                                                      Dunajska
                                                                                                                                              Sahy
                                                                                                                                                                       Ipel
                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                48°N                                                  Streda                                             Zeliezovce                                                          Budapest                                                                                                                                       48°N
                                                                                       Nove Zamky
                                               Da n




                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                            Budapest
                                                  ub




                                                                                     Kolarovo
                                                      e




                                          To
                                        Kapuvar
                                                                                            Komarno
                                                                                            Komarno                           Sturovo
                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SLOVAK REPUBLIC
                                                                To                                                                                      Vac
                                                                                            To
                                                               Gyor                        Gyor          To
                                                                                                     Tatabanya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                 HUNGARY                                                                                                                              REGION (KRAJ) CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                  0              20                   40                 60 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                               RAILROADS
DECEMBER 2004




                                                  0                         20                                40 Miles                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33480
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                              REGION (KRAJ) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                47°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                               17°E                                                        18°E                                                      19°E                                                  20°E                                              21°E
