Documentof          AlA 3Y/6o 0 -
The World Bank
FOR OFIMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10206-AR  Type: (SAR)
MEJIA, L  / X37783 / I 4163/ LATPS                       ReportNo.10206-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND TAX ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
MARCH 10, i992
Public Sector Management Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Peso ($)
US$ 1 = $ 1 (January 1, 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
i meter (m.)           =    3.28 feet (ft.)
i kilometer (km.)      =    0.62 mile (mi.)
i square kilometer (km2) =    0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
I metric ton (m. ton)    =    1.1 US short ton (sh. ton)
1 liter (1.)           =    0.264178 US gallon (gal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CUIT       -    Unique Taxpayer Identification Number
DGI        -    General Tax Directorate
PIU        -    Project Implementation Unit
PSRL       -    Public Sector Reform Loan
PSRTAL    -    Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
AEDGI    -    Asociaci6n de Empleados de la Direcci6n General Impositiva
ANA        -    Administraci6n Nacional de Aduanas



. i -                      FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARIENlNA
SECOND TAX             SR PROJEC
&rAFF APAIA REZOR
Table of Contet
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.     iE SECTIR
A.   The Macroeconomic Environment                                                 1
B.   Revenues and Tax Administration                                              3
C.   Previous Bank Lending Experience                                             11
D.   Lessons Learned                                                              12
E.   Rationale for Bank Involvement                                               13
II.   THE, PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives                                                           13
B.   Project Description                                                          14
C.   Project Cost and Financing                                                   19
D.   Cost Effectiveness Analysis                                                 22
E.   Project Benefits and Risks                                                  23
HI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Agencies Involved                                                           24
B.   Project Execution                                                           24
C.   Procurement                                                                 24
D.   Disbursement and Special Account                                            28
E.   Accounting and Audits                                                       28
F.   Project Monitoring                                                          28
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                             29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in December 1991 comprised of Messrs.
Mejfa (Mission Leader), Shahid Chaudhry and Gary Reid (LATPS). Messrs. Luca Barbone
(EM4CO), Michael Stevens (CECPS) and Claudio Fernandez (AS2IE) acted as Peer Reviewers. The
Department Director and Sector Division Chief were Messrs. Ping-Cheung Loh and Shahid
Chaudhry, respectively.                                                       d
IThis documenit has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1    The General Tax Directorate
2    Existing and Proposed Equipment at DGI
3    Project Costs by Component
4    Cost Effectiveness Model
5    Key Project Activities and Schedule
6    Project Implementation Unit
7    Project Performance Indicators
Documents in Project File
Presidential Decree 1237, June 26, 1991
Collective Work Agreement
Project Preparation Facilitl Action Plan
Project Execution Document
Cross-component Training Plan



- Hi -
ARGENTINA
SECOND TAX ADMINISIRATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Argentina
Beneflary:            General Tax Directorate (DGI), Ministry of Economy
Amount:               US$20.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period, with loan amortization
based on level repayments of principal, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Pro}ect
Obkcthves:            The project objectives are to simplify the legal framework for tax
administration and strengthen the administration and collection of DGI to:
(a) obtain sustainable revenue increases, and (b) to facilitate voluntary
compliance through an improved perception of fairness and equitabie
distribution of the tax burden in the population.
Descptin:             The project will finance consulting services, training, otfice refurbishing,
equipment and software required by the General Tax Directorate (DGI)
to: (a) review and codify procedural tax laws and regulations tc simplify
and make coherent existing legislation, develop a legislative database
(hardware and software) and train DGI legal staff (2 l'eicent of total costs);
(b) expand automated accounting, personnel and othei administrative
systems developed through 3015-AR in all DGI agencies nationwide,
acquire microcomputers and train staff in their use (18 percent of total
costs); (c) carry out taxpayer surveys, implement manual and automated
systems and train staff to improve the taxpayer services offered by the DGI
(6 percent of total costs); (d) install in all agencies the new au:omated
collection systems for Large and Small Taxpayers developed through 3015-
AR, acquire equipment, train staff and refurbish DGI offices nationwide
(64 percent of total costs); (e) collect internal and external information,
deveiop methodologies and automated tools for fraud detection and train
taxpayer auditors in their use (4 percent if total costs); and (f) project
administration and auditing (6 percent of total costs). The project consists
of five components aimed at improving: (a) the Legal Framework; (b)
Administration; (c) Taxpayer Services; (d) Collection Systems; and (e)
Taxpayer Auditing.
Benefits:             A decrease in detected tax fraud and an increase in voluntary compliance
would result in increased collections, conservately estimated at better than
US$17S million per year. A more efficient DGI would operate in a more
modern manner. A transparent and efficient application of simplified laws
and regulations would contribute to a better perception of a more just and
equitable distribution of the tax administration burden to all taxpayers.



- iv -
proJect Risks:       The major risks to project implementation are possible changes in
leadership leading to changes in project strategy, and overloading the
capacity of the organization to accept change. To reduce these risks: (a) the
Government would maintain the composition of the Project Implementation
Unit for the life of the project to ensure continuity and (b) d.isruptions to
existing functions will be minimized by introducing new technology only
after they are fully tested, through the development of pilots in selected
agencies, and their subsequent extension to all agencies.
Ftimaed Prolect Cost:
Lc    Foreign ThW
- (US$ '000) -
I. Legal Framework                                524    120    644
I. Administration                               2,427   3,130   5,557
HI. Taxpayer Services                            1,596     50   1,646
IV. Collections                                 10,138   9,050  19,188
V. Taxpayer Auditing                              705    560   1,265
Project Implementation Unit                     LQ        50   1,0
Total Project Costs                             17,040  12,960  30,000
(of which PPF Refinancing)                     (838)  (662) (1,500)
Finanng Plan                                     Local  Foreign Total
- (US$ '000)-
Government                                      9,050    950  10,000
IBRD                                            7,279   12.210  20,00
Total                                           16,840  13,160  30,000
Estimated Disbursement     FY92L    FY93    FY-94    FY9S    FY96
(in USS million)
Annual                     1.5        7.5      6.1       3.3      1.6
Cumulative                 1.5        9.0      15.1     18.4     20.0



I. THE SECTOR
A. THE MACROECONOMIC ENIRONM
1.1   In the last 60 years, the Argentine public sector became increasingly involved in resource
allocation activities. This economic strategy was initially successful; however, by the mid-1950s
terms of trade had turned sharply against agriculture, domestic import-substitution possibilities had
disappeared, and balance of payments crises became frequent. Economic conditions deteriorated and
economic growth became erratic; by the 1980s, real economic growth averaged a negative 0.78
percent for the decade (see Figure 1.1). The inflation rate also fluctuated disconcertingly over this
period, averaging 710 percent annually; the 'Tax Policy for Stabilization and Ewnomic Recovery
Report"M- estimated the loss of tax revenues due to the Oliveira-Tanzi effect at over one percent of
GDP during the 1980s and about two percent of GDP in 1988 (see Figure 1.2). At the same time,
increased government spending and continued expansion of the public sector led to burgeoning fiscal
deficits (3.1 percent of GDP in 1980, 4.5 percent in 1990).
1.2   The importance of the public sector accounts in determining Argentina's macroeconomic
perfotmance is due to its pervasiveness across economic activities. Total expenditures of central
government were equivalent to about a third of GDP in 1987, although its sphere of action extended
further throughout many economic sectors through the public enterprise system. The public sector has
been prone to budget deficits, financed in large portion through the domestic financial system, which,
together with rigid price, credit and interest rate controls, further repressed and distorted economic
development. The tax system was unable to provide an increase in revenues corresponding to the
increase in expenditures, in part because of inflation and in part because of the deterioration of the
administration. Despite a number of reform initiatives, this erosion of revenues generally continued
until 1989.
1.3   In November 1989, four months        Argentine Rea I Economic Gowth by Year
after taking office, the Menem
administration introduced its first
program aimed at stabilizing the
economy. The program concentrated on    i
fiscal performance and structural
reforms; it failed to reassure the
financial markets which had experienced    .
previous failed programs (e.g., the "Plan
Austral" and the "Plan Primavera"), and  X       -
this program too failed quickly. Starting
in December 1989, a number of               ,_ ___
measures were introduced, which             nsa 4,,,   i,,, ,6    _m .6 4i8  in06 
however, failed to be supported by fiscal
adjustments to reduce the public sector r
demand for credit and to eliminate    igure I.1
money creation; the economy quickly
entered into hyperinflation in February 1990.
I/ World Ban, 19



-2 -
1.4   In March 1990, a new program of expenditure and revenue measures and structural refornmb
was introduced, including a reduction in public sector employment and a limit to the interventions of
the Cc-irtral Bank, the National Housing Bank and the National Development Bank; privatization of
teiecommunications, roads, airlines, and others; and tightened monetary policy. Fiscal accounts
improved substantially, public confidence grew, and monthly inflation decreased from 70-80 percent
in the first quarter to 4-6 percent in the fourth quarter of 1990. However, fiscal performance began to
flatten at the end of the year; public sector expenses increased, while improvement on revenues was
slow. Monetary performance weakened as well, and in December the exchange rate suddenly
devalued and inflation jumped to almost 9 percent in January 1991; the combined price index rose by
32.4 percent in February. The economy this time did not cpin into hyperinflation, due in great part to
the greater fiscal efforts of the Government and the success of the structural reforms carried out.
1.5    The February 1991 fiscal package was designed to raise the fiscal balance and open the
economy further; as a result, the financial markets calmed and the exchange rate stabilized. In April,
the Law of Convertibility was passed, fixing the exchange rate to the US dollar (A 10,000 per US$),
facilitating the use of the dollar in contracts, guaranteeing full convertibility, and decreeing that any
changes in the value of the austral would require action by Congress. In January 1992, the currency
was changed to the peso, at parity with the US dollar. This program reduced inflation to 2 percent in
June, interest rates fell, consumer spending rose, and a modest economic recovery was fueled.
DGI Col lect ions Versus  Inflation
QV W.or Ttx, 19B0-1990
0 0.5
0,045-
0.04-
0.035 
0.0* 0
'0.025 
&0.023
0.015
0.01
0.005
77.0 99.4 1107.7 127.4 204.0 35T2.4 389.8 599.1 680.4 195D.4 3205.4
Annul* Inflation Rate
Figure 1.2: + Value Added O Income A Excise x Capital v Excise on Fuels
1.6    The economic situation is still fragile, however, and highly susceptible to shifts against the
austral and to inflation. A strong performance in public sector accounts is essential to ensure that the
measures taken mature into sustainable policies. The Government has taken transitory measures, such
as emergency taxes (e.g., bank debits), expenditure reductions (e.g., arrears to suppliers), and the
sale of assets (e.g., oil reserves) and concessions in airlines, railways, and telecommunications,
among others; these sales have produced some US$600 million in cash and reduced the Government's
external commercial debt by over (JS$ 7 billion. However, sustainable long-term policies are needed



-3 -
to reduce the public sector deficit; continued public sector structural reforms are central to any
medium-term scenario of sustained growth, and the Government has embarked on a far-reaching set
of such initiatives designed to make the fiscal balance sustainable and the revenue and expenditure
activities efficient. A number of constructive deregulation measures were taken in October 1991. The
erosion of the Government's capacity to perform its core functions is addressed through an
administrative reform and a strengthening of its budgetary capacity; the administrative reform seeks to
reverse the deterioration in the quality and organization of the civil service, reduce the size of the
federal bureaucracy and improve the incentive system for federal employees, among others.
Budgetary strengthening would be carried out through the implementation of the Law of Financial
Management and Performance Control, which defines financial responsibilities in Government and a
modern control and auditing framework.
1.7   The Bank has supported the Government's efforts through a number of loans, in particular:
the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL, 3291-AR) and its Execution Loan (PEREL,
3292-AR), which will help reduce govermnent expenses through the privatization of selected public
enterprises and the improvement of efficiency and service quality of others; the Provincial
Development Loan (PDL, 3280-AR), which would finance provincial efforts to enhance revenues and
control expenditures; the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL, 3394-AR), aimed at centsal government
expenditure rationalization, closing tax loopholes and revenue enhancement; the Public Sector
Management Technical Assistance Loan (PSMTAL, 2712-AR), whose objective was the improvement
of the Government's economic management; and the First Tax Administration Praject (TATAL,
3015-AR), which addressed short-term tax administration needs. Other Bank loans address specific
agencies, aimed at strengthening the Government's capability to carry out planned reforms: in
particular, the Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PSRTAL, 3362-AR) is aimed at
strengthening of Customs, among others, and the proposed project is aimed at strengthening the tax
administration agency, DGI.
B. REVENUES AND TAX ADMINISTRATION
1.8    Several agencies are charged with collecting national taxes: the General Tax Directorate
(DGI), the Social Security Administration, the National Customs Administration (ANA), and other
minor bodies. The DGI is the most important of these agencies, both in revenue collected and with
respect to its auditing and prosecuting powers. It operates over the entire national territory and its
main functions are the assessment of tax liabilities and the collection of revenues (see Annex 1: The
General Tax Directorate). In 1990, DGI collected 58 percent of national revenues, Social Security 29
percent, and Customs 13 percent (see Figure I.3).
1.9   The Government, with Bank support, embarked on a series of efforts to increase the
efficiency of its revenue collection agencies. The modernization and computerization of Customs is
addressed primarily through the PSRTAL (3362-AR). A loan is being prepared for the rationalization
of the finances of Social Security. DGI's organization was revised and a unified taxpayer
identification number implemented through the PSMTAL (2712-AR). Under the first Tax
Administration Loan (3015-AR, approved in December 1988), 600 taxpayer auditors were hired, DGI
personnel received training, a new computerized collection system for large taxpayers was developed
and is being introduced in the 37 largest DGI agencies (it is operational in 17 to date); an automated
collection system for other taxpayers is being developed and will be tested at headquarters;
administrative and monitoring systems are being developed for use at headquarters. The proposed
project would, among others, expand the systems developed in all DGI agencies nationwide.



-4 -
ARGENTINA: MONTHLY TAX RECEIPTS
2.2
2
f1~~1.
*     ~~1.4
*~~~~~~~~aur 1991  un619
*         1,
0          I
C
7         0.8a
.0 ~ ~  .
C
-      ~~0.2
.Jan-SB Jul-88 Jan-89 Jul-8B Jan-GO Jul-G0 Jan-91
January 1999  June, 1991
001I          ANA   Msocial security
gue1.3
1.10   Tax 6perations until late 1989 were chaotic and reflexive instead of intentional and remedial.
Sporadic attempts to compensate for public revenue shortfalls by changing the tax laws created an
unstable legal framework which resulted in an unmanageable and essentially inequitable tax system
that prompted both vested interest lobbying to change the laws and public cynicism and defiance
expressed in high levels of tax evasion. The constant battle with inflation induced a short-term
approach to the administration of tax collection, with little attention to accuracy of compliance or
implementation of remedies needed to produce an efficient tax administration in the long term. The
excessive fragmentation of the tax system, variability in legislation, and the complex, confused and at
times contradictory procedural laws and regulations produced a legal framework of very difficult
application.
Table I.1: Tax Base Rzvenue Sha, 1980-90
1.11   In 1991, the DGI was in charge of collecting over
20 separate taxes from a total of 2,453,000 taxpayers for  Tax Base    Percont Cotlection
which it tracked collections in 47 separate accounts. The
five largest taxes accounted for more than 80 percent of   Calbetibdes          17
DGI's revenues on average over the 1 1-year period         Excises              14
embracing 1980-1990 (see Table I. 1). Collections declined,  Incan              12
Capi tat              6
both in absolute terms and as a percentage of GDP, in      Bank Debits           3
particular the broad-based taxes; the VAT experienced the  Stani                 2
Foreign Exchange      I
largest annual decline, amounting to 0.33 percent of GDP   others               14
per year or approximately 11 percent of average value-
added tax collections over the decade. Overall annual tax
revenue declines amounted to almost 0.5 percent of GDP or
roughly 5 percent of average annual DGI collections during the 1980s. VAT and income tax became



riddled with exemptions and inappropriately applied definitions of inflation adjustments; abuses of
industrial promotion incentives increasod; this led the Government to rely excessively on more
narrowly based, more sable and easiek -- apply taxes, such as export and energy taxes.
Tax Reform In the 80s and 90s
1.12   Tax reform was an integral part of the Elan Austral in 1985-86. The anti-evasion powers of
DGI were increased, VAT rates were unified at 18 percent and a simplified system for small
taxpayers introduced. Direct taxes were strengthened, including several changes to the income tax, a
modification to the infl.tion adjustment method, a strengthening of the tax on capital and net wealth, a
.eduction in the taxable minimum and the inclusion of shares in the base for the personal wealth tax
with credit given for the taxes paid by the enterprise. On the whole, the reform was not successful.
Th fragmentation of the tax system was not reduced, and revenues continued to erode due to the
industrial incentives system. Indeed, the system for inflation indexation contributed substantially to a
further reduction of the tax liability of corporations.
1.13   A number of ad hoc measures were adopted by the Government to remediate the deterioration
of iiscal revenues. In March 1988 bank cheques were taxed for the first time; later that year,
surcharges on gasoline, fuels and telephone were introduced; selected excises were increased. In
December 1988, the open-ended tax exemption given to promoted firms was abolished.
1.14  In December 1989, the Government began to take steps to refocus its efforts towards broad-
based taxes, to distribute more equitably the burden of taxes and to regain taxpayer respect for its tax
policies, and beginning in December 1989 a number of steps were taken towards the creation of a
simpler and more stable tax system: (a) the value-added tax base was widened to nearly all goods and
some discretion was given to the President to increase rates; (b) income taxes on corporations were
simplified and lowered from 33 to 20 percent with a minimum tax payment of 1 percent of assets; (c)
income tax for individuals was simplified and a new set of brackets introduced; and (d) an intensive
audit of current beneficiaries of the industrial promotions program was ordered.
1.15  In February 1990, inflation adjustments were redefined virtually to eliminate the Tanzi effect,
and a decision was taken to avoid using the tax system to provide promotional incentives to industry,
which had been extensively abused and which were estimated to have cost over US$1.6 billion in
1989. .'e VAT was extended to the agricultural sector and later to all services (effective in October),
and X -  and income-tax payments were required to be paid within ten days, to reduce the collection
lag and further reduce inflation costs. A law was enacted imposing stringent penalties (including
incarceration) for tax evasion. In February 1991, a new set of reforms was introduced, and the VAT,
asset, bank cheque and gasoline taxes were raised and the income tax base was widened. These final
changes in substanive law paved the way for a set of reforms aimed at increasing the efficiency of
the tax administration system and increasing voluntary taxpayer compliance, by addressing
weaknesses in the tax administration legal framework (josedural law and regulations), in the
system's institutional infrastructure, and the taxpayer environment. As a result of these and other
measures, public finances are now roughly in balance (see Table 1.2).
1.16   At present, two initiatives by the Government are being evaluated. The first is the
improvement of social security collections through the implementation of a primary surplus tax;
employers' contributions to the social security wage tax, now at 16 percent, would be replaced with a
supplemental tax, defined as VAT plus VAT on exports, minus the wage bill and employee social
insurance payments, minus taxes paid on assets income. This tax would be collected by DGI and
distributed as follows: 70 percent to the social security system, 20 percent to military pensions, and
10 percent to the provinces in accordance with their social security obligations. The net benefit of the
primary surplus tax has been estimated at about US$ 900 million per year after 1992.



-6 .
1.17   The second initiative is the replacement of the present income tax with a tax on distributed
profits. Individuals would be subject to tax if they (a) conduct a business or other activity carried on
for profit, or (b) if they receive an income from a foreign source. Only wages above US$2000 per
month would be included, with social security and pension funds deductible from the taxable base.
This tax would be simpler to administer than the existing income tax, and encourage investment as
non-distributed profits would be exempted under the new regime; it would on the other hand involve
a decline in revenues of about US$600 million per year.
Table I.2: Public Finances (in percent of GDP)
July 1991 -
Est.   Juno 1992
198   129    199   IMF Prog.
Tax Re'enueo                               12.7   132    19.9   21.0
Primazy balance nonftnamial public sector  -0.3    2.2    2.3    3.5
Nonfinancial public ector overall balance  -15.9   -2.3   -0.7    0.5
Operating losses of Central Bank           -5.9   -1.0   -0.5   -0.4
Combined oveall balance of the public sector  -21.7   -3.3   -1.2    0.1
Industrial Promotion.
1.18      The industrial promotion regime has been an attempt by the Government to incentivate
industry through various exemptions from taxes or deferment of tax payments, to promote sectoral,
regional or priority projects and the investment and re-investment of profits. Loopholes in this regirmie
cost the Gov.rnment US$1.6 billion in 1989, or 1.5 percent of GDP; this cost is estimated to increase
to US$3.6 billion in 1994 if measures to control and improve this program are not adopted.
1.19   These m.easures, begun in 1989, take the form of changes in program definition and policy,
and improvements in its monitoring. The most important of these are:
a. The Emergency Law of 1989, which deferred 50 percent of industrial promotion benefits for
one year beginning in August 1989 in exchange for a bond to be paid 24 months later.
b. Transferral of authority for industrial promotion from the Provinces and Tierra del Fuego to
the Federal Secretariat of Public Revenues (Decrees 435 of March 1990 and 612 of April 1990) -
heretofore provinces had been in effect giving away federal revenues.
c. Cancellation of all extant, not yet activated industrial promotion benefit contracts; rights to
renew existing contracts were also cancelled.
d. Improved monitoring (decree 1355 of August 1990); information on 2400 projects permitted an
estimate of the fiscal cost of industrial promotion of approximately US$3.5 billion, substantially
greater than the previously estimated cost of US$2.1 billion.
e. Most recently, replacement of self-monitored, open-ended tax deductions with a limited tax
bond program. Beneficiaries would be fully audited for compliance against the original contract;
those passing would receive nontransferable fiscal bonds applicable to taxes that year and those
failing would receive a smaller bond (in proportion to non-compliance) and would be audited for
back taxes; and the evaluation of a regulation to induce a voluntary withdrawal from the industrial
promotion system.



1.20   As a condition of the release of the second tranche of the PSRL (3394-AR), the Government
has engaged itself to take measures to limit the fiscal cost of industrial promotion to less than 30
percent of projected fiscal cost without reform for 1994, as evidenced by : (i) having conipleted the
tax bond program: (ii) suspended benefits to ineligible firms; and (iii) completed requisite decrees and
resolutions to establish a legal basis for control; terminated special protection for the electronics
industry in Tierra del Fuego; and enacted no new law on industrial promotion entailing additional
fiscal costs to the Federal Treasury.
1.21   TATAL (3015-AR) collaterally addressed the improvement of monitoring of compliance with
the Industrial Promotion Regime, through the improvement of DGI's auditing function. Financed by
this loan, 600 taxpayer auditors were hired to complement existing DGI staff, and all taxpayer
auditors trained; auditing techniques were reviewed and improved, and information from participating
firms was obtained and processed. Further improvements to auditing techniques are needed, especially
to use the new database of taxpayer information created using the automated collection systems
developed through TATAL (3015-AR). This will be undertaken as a part of this proposed project.
Tax Administration Leal Framework
1.22   Argentine experience demonstrates the importance of a stable legal policy framework.
Frequent legislative changes and the imposition of new levies has greatly complicated DGI's work,
and resulted in the accumulation of inconsistent bureaucratic processes resulting from repeated
legislative "fixes" in response to revenue shortages. The nature and stability of the legal mandate
imposed on DGI clearly constitutes an important constraint on its production function.
1.23   In Argentina, the tax administration's legal   Table 1.3: Issued between 1986 and June 1991
framework has three parts: substantive law,
procedural law (replacing to a large extent                     LAWS   DECREES  RESOLUTIONS
regulations issued in other countries by the tax
agency), and resolutions (interpretations of         1987        10      20        44
procedural law issued). The modifications which the  1988        11      26        16
Government has made to the existing substantive tax  1989        15      36         3
1990         7      53       33
laws, while on the right track, do not provide       1991/June    3      31        11
sufficient elements to grant success; the number of              ---    196       -6-
taxes and the definitions of tax bases, and, in some  TOTAL      53    196        164
cases, the number of rates which apply to taxpayers
in different categories, are susceptible to further simplification. It is expected that the increased
collection efficiency obtained through this project will decrease Government reliance on inefficient
taxes, which would make a revision of substantive law in the interests of efficiency and equity more
feasible than now. To improve the efficiency of the administration, however, it will be necessary to
address procedural law: the large number of laws, decrees, resolutions and regulations (see
Table 1.3), intended to implement or clarify the legal framework has resulted in a situation of the
utmost complexity, exemplified by a ruling in a case by a judge in the Argentine Courts in these
terms: "... We ... are in an exceptional situation where our legal code is saturated with juridical
norms of a hierarchy less than that of a Congressional Law, resolutions which sometimes contradict
each other, which are born daily, are repealed, modified, etc., and that cannot evidently be known
by the taxpayer, the ordinary citizen; worse, they are even unknown to [DGI experts] ...". The
project would finance technical assistance to review procedural laws (and to a certain extent
substantive laws) concerning tax administration and prepare a simplified set ("texto ordenado").
1.24   The National Tax Department ("Direcci6n Nacional de Impuestos") reports, as do the DGI,
the National Tax Court ("Tribunal Fiscal") and Customs, to the Secretariat of Public Revenues in the
Ministry of Economy. It is in charge of formulating and initiating legislation and, therefore, is in
close touch with the Legislative Power (Congress). In discharging these duties, it is not required to



-8 -
consult with DGI, although at present there are no problems of communication. In the past, this
division of labor has resulted in a definition of tax laws with little relation to their implementability,
leading to their inconsistent application, long delays at the Fiscal Tribunal, and the promotion of
recurrent amnesties to redress what is fundamentally a flaw in the regulatory environment. The
consequences of this complex situation are reflected in the fact that almost 20 percent of DOI
regulations enacted since 1986 have since been repealed (ref. Table I.4). The proposed project would
finance technical assistance to review all DGI-issued resolutions and regulations and issue a unified
set.
Table I.4: DOI Rgulations
year       1986  1987   1988  1989  1990  1991/June    TOTAL
ENACTED     71  124    165   153   183        98        794
REPEALED    18   25      31    23    25        -        122
IN FORCE    53   99    134   130   158       98        672
Tax Administration Institutional Infrastructure
1.25   Between 1986 and 1989, collected revenue per audit fell from US$126 to US$34, while the
average cost per audit increased from US$278 to US$83Q. Qualified staff were difficult to attract and
retain, morale was low and staff usually held more than one iob to compensate for low wages. For a
long time, DGI management was unable to plan or carry out reforms to improve productivity. This
was aggravated by very high turnover in the position of Director General of the DGI. Since 1989,
however, many of the problems which plagued the institutional infrastructure of tax administration
have been identified, and are being addressed, as explained below.
1.26 The DGI operates in an autarkic manner, giving it a certain independence from general public
sector rules which allows it to offer somewhat more attractive working conditions than other
government bodies. A new general organizational structure for DGI was approved by Presidential
Decree of June 1991. This new classification is in line with modern managerial concepts (e.g.,
planning, operations and support), and should function well with minor lower-level modifications.
Salaries and promotions are addressed by the new management-union contract ("Collective Work
Agreement") being negotiated. Heretofore, a very flat compensation curve had been used, which
together with high job security had reduced incentives to employees and made it very difficult for
management to improve the quality of the work force. The new contract will: (a) introduce modern
personnel management systems; (b) establish a new career growth plan; (c) modify the existing,
excessively generous, leave policy; (d) introduce a single work schedule, thereby reducing the
possibility of secondary jobs; (e) introduce a policy of promotion by merit through examination; (f)
modify the discipline policy; and (g) raise salaries.
1.27 The new contract has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory as an initial
starting point for personnel management reform of the DGI. The implementation of the Collective
Work Agreement will take place before the estimated date of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
During the next two years, its implementation will bring to light modifications which will be required
to the personnel system, due in large measure to the extensive introduction of technology through the
project and its consequent modifications to existing functions, reward system and career paths. A
review of the provisions of the Collective Work Agreement should therefore be carried out after the
proposed reforms are sufficiently absorbed by DGI, to ensure that the DGI organization, structure,
functions and personnel management procedures and systems are adequate and that they facilitate the
continuity of the reforms and improvements obtained through the proposed project. Arrangements
governing the execution of this review and its implementation were agreed at negotiations.



-9-
1.28  The deterioration of the quality and morale of DGI staff over the past decade has not yet been
addressed; increased training and managerial attention to staff are required to improve the culture of
the organization. In light of the Collective Agreement and to improve efficiency, staff functions and
duties will be revised and supported by the introduction of automated and manual systems to replace
existing obsolete administrative systems, such as personnel, purchasing, electronic mail and
accounting. To emphasize staff accountability, well-defined monitoring systems will complement the
administrative systems. Staff bonuses tied to increased collection awarded on a merit system will
provide an incentive for better performance (see Annex 1).
1.29   The primary functions of DGI, that is, facilitating and monitoring taxpayer compliance and
preventing taxpayer non-compliance, have until recently operated very deficiently. The tax roster was
allowed to deteriorate, and the collection system was designed to operate centrally; data was col;cted
on paper and inputted centrally, with a very high percentage of error. The various systems used over
2000 programs in old, difficult-to-modify languages, which made their modification cumbersome and
information retrieval extremely slow. Taxpayer auditing through cross-checking with external sources
was not possible, and detecting non-compliance difficult.
1.30   These problems were partially addressed beginning in 1987 with Bank assistance (Loans 2712-
AR and 3015-AR). The tax roster is being reconstituted beginning with the largest 30,000 taxpayers;
it requires extension to cover the entire taxpayer population. A new automated collection system,
already operational in five agencies, has the potential to improve DGI's ability to collect and monitor
collections, to maintain an updated tax roster and to carry out some computerized cross-checks for
compliance, including with other data sources such as the social security system. This system must be
installed in all DGI agencies, and generalized to the whole of the taxpaying population from its
present limited scope (Large Taxpayers).
1.31  In the meantime, DGI has attempted to palliate the absence of efficient automated systems in
all agencies for collection and taxpayer auditing through a number of localized initiatives, some of
which have been quite successful. The LoterIVA, a lottery based on VAT receipts, has been well
received, and has increased registration of transactions; legal modifications have allowed more
flexibility in the application of fiscal secrecy, permittinb, the DGI to publish in the newspapers lists of
defaulting taxpayers; this too has had an effect in curtailing fraud.
1.32   Finally, management also requires support. Lack of long-range planning has been an often
noted deficiency of DGI; monitoring and decision-making have been very difficult because of the
paucity of appropriate information available to management. The Analysis and Statistical Department
must be strengthened through training and the use of modern technology, and management
information systems introduced.
National Tax Court
1.33 Taxpayers in Argentina can appeal a DGI tax or penalty determination by lodging a formal
appeal with the National Tax Court. Decisions of this administrative tribunal can in turn be appealed
to a National Court of Appeals, a civil court. Taxpayers almost automatically appeal DGI decisions to
the National Tax Court, and collections of reassessed tax liabilities are usually delayed. The Tax
Court employs about 140 people, 21 of whom are judges (9 specializing in Customs). The efficiency
of the Tax Court is low, as attested by the fact that thM average waiting period for a case is around 3
years, that the Court is some 8 years in arrears, and that the number of pending cases increases by an
average of 15 percent yearly. The perceived inefficiency of the Tax Court also plays a role in
decreasing voluntary taxpayer compliance, as it presents an easy road to deferral or even elimination
of payments. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the monitoring of DGI's proceedings at the
National Tax Court as well as assist the Tax Court itself to make it more efficient. This is part of the
proposed project.



- 10-
Federal-Provincial Relationships
1.34   The latest Co-participation Law (1987), defined the rules for revenue sharing between the
provinces and the central administration, increasing the provincial share to 57.5 percent and setting
the limit to discretionary contributions from the Treasury at a maximum of I percent of GDP. Other
aspects of the law dealt with the secondary distribution of resources. The law has not, however,
resolved the Provinces' financial problems, as shared revenues declined, expenditures were not
reduced, while provincial (non-shared) revenues did not increase. In addition to rationalization of
expenditures, the provinces would benefit from a tax administration improvement effort similar (albeit
smaller in scope) to the oine proposed for DGI. The systems introduced should be capable of adoption
by the provinces (after suitable modification), and the experience garnered by DGI would permit a
highly profitable transfer of technology from the central administration to the provinces. Efforts in
this respect would be carried out under both the proposed project and the Provincial Development
Project (3280-AR).
Taxpayer Compliance
1.35   Numerous sociological and psychological studies of taxation have concluded that discouraging
non-compliance is not the same as improving compliance. Taxpayer attitudes matter; they affect
intentions and therefore behavior; they are in turn affected by the social context, the perceived
fairness of the tax structure, its complexity and stability, how it is administered, the value attached to
government activities, and the legitimacy of the government. A May 1991 surve' of taxpayers
confirmed a common perception of lack of information on tax administration, unrair competition to
tax-paying businesses by the underground economy, lack of enforcement, lack of motivation by DGI
staff, too much emphasis on known taxpayers compared to unknown evaders, and the negative effect
of the frequent amnesties granted by the Government.
1.36   Tax amnesties are transitory suspensions of procedural law provisions and the creation of
alternative, temporary compliance rules. The frequency of the amnesties implies a cyclical and
negative stimulus to voluntary compliance, as the taxpayer prefers in many cases to postpone paying
taxes as much as possible in the expectation of a future amnesty. Argentina has granted 16 separate
tax amnesties over the past 33 years, in the form of forgiveness, moratoria and ready compliance
schemes'. In the last decade, the frequency of amnesties has increased.
1.37    Amnesties constitute a political admission of failure on the part of the administration.
Increased DGI efficiency is necessary to avoid the need for future amnesties; increased information to
the public is necessary to improve compliance and to introduce a sense of participation which was
lacking on both sides; DGI efforts today give more emphasis to participation and cooperation (using
as symbol the bloodhound), whereas previously it emphasized penalties and strength (using as symbol
a tank). Finally, it is necessary to provide an adequate service to taxpayers to dispel the negative
image that DGI has at present with respect to taxpayers.
1.38   Another aspect of the tax administration system which facilitates taxpayer compli ce is the
expense and degree of difficulty involved in preparing tax forms. In this regard, the DGI carried out a
considerable simplification in 1987; however, the number of tax forms, the frequency of their filing
and the difficulty of preparing them is very high, and reducing their expense is one of the key
performance indicators for the success of the proposed project.
Z/ Amnestics cancel taxes and pcnalties due to evasion in exchange for a reduced 'compensatory" tax; moratoria are
restricted to interest due and inflation adjustments of taxes in arrears; ready compliance gives more time to taxpayers and
may reduce the inflationary adjustment of the amount due.



- 11 -
DGI Current Strategy.
1.39  DGI's current strategy is aimed at eliminating four major outstanding problems which
contribute to the inefficiency of the present tax administration system: (a) the multiplicity and frequent
contradiction of procedural laws and regulations on tax administration; (b) weakness and excessive
centralization of existing administrative systems and procedures; (c) poor service to the public,
reinforcing a negative image of the institution; and (d) inefficiency in collections and taxpayer
auditing. DGI's 1991-94 action program is geared toward a more effective definition of its legal
framework and the medium-range improvement of the institution to maximize revenue through a
more effective use of its human resources and the introduction of information technology. In addition
to the specific tax administration technical developments, DGI's current strategy also concentrates on
core public sector management problems like human resource management, procurement, technical
capacity, budgeting, and accountability. These problems have been addressed by the Bank's PSRL
(3394-AR) and also by the recent tax administration strengthening interver.tions (Loans 2712-AR and
3015-AR), on which the proposed operation will build.
1.40  The reforms introduced by the Government so far are expected to increase revenues by over
one percent of GDP per year, because of improved tax policy and administration components. The
Government would be able to get US$200 million in savings through the reduction of tax subsidies
through the industrial promotion program. The proposed project is expected to increase the present
value of average annual revenues further by a minimum of US$175 million per year by project
completion, although less conservative estimates by DGI management put this increase at over
US$600 million per year. Direct comparisons of revenue collected can not alone be an indicator of
the efficiency of the tax administration, because of the influence of many exogenous factors, such as
the economy itself, variations in the tax rates used, increase in voluntary compliance - itself due to
many factors; it would be extremely difficult to measure separately the impact of each factor on
collection. Therefore, in addition to this general indicator, more independent indicators of
performance will be used, such as the number of identified taxpayers, the ratio of collections to DGI
expenses, the cost to taxpayers of preparing returns, the distribution of taxes across population, the
percentage of taxpayer accounts in arrears, the ratio of IVA and Income Tax Collections to Total
Collections, and the perception of DGI performance by taxpayers (see Annex 7).
C. PREVIOUS BANK LENDING EXPERIENCE
1.41   The Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan (PSMTAL, 2712-AR), which
became effective in November 1986, had as its objective the improvement of the Government's
economic management and the performance of selected public sector institutions. Taxes (policy and
administration) was one of several components, and its objective was to modernize DGI by
implementing a unified taxpayer identification number, developing software for collection and tax
inspection audits, and creating a new organizational culture for tax administration. The unified
taxpayer identification number was established - a first critical step in rationalizing the operational
infrastructure of the tax system - an Information System for Relevant Economic Transactions was
implemented, and an organizational reform carried out. The software for collection and tax inspection
was designed but not developed, due to disagreements amnong DGI management, staff and the project
coordination unit on the technical merits of the design, administrative delays in proceeding to bid the
development, and changes in DGI senior management. Work on the subcomponent was stopped in
September 1989 when a new administration in DGI decided to review and reformulate its institutional
requirements.
1.42  At the same time, following a major Bank review of Government fiscal policies, the
Government of Argentina and the Bank agreed on the need for additional support to DGI. The first



- 12 -
Tax Administration Loan (TATAL, 3015-AR) was approved in January 1989; it focused on the short-
term objective of rapidly increasing DGI's revenue mobilizing capabilities and is slated for completion
in its major components in 1992. The project (US$6.5 million) had six components: (a) developing a
computerized system for the "surveillance" of the 2,000 largest taxpayers; (b) increasing the number
of tax inspectors and computer analysts and their training; (c) revising procedures and systems for
internal auditing and control of DGI operations; (d) reviewing inspection techniques, especially
computerized accounting systems; (e) acquiring single- and multi-user computers for the
decentralization of DGI operations and the control of the 2,000 largest taxpayers. The IMF also
provided technical assistance to the project. During the first year of project executien national
elections resulted in a completely new administration. Partly as a consequence, there were changes in
senior management, project activities carried out with little institutional direction and support, and the
partial results obtained initially (the surveillance computerized system, hiring tax inspectors) were not
followed up.
1.43 The PSRL (3394-AR) addressed tax administration directly, supporting: (a) the rebuilding of
the tax rolls for the 30,000 largest taxpayers and later all taxpayers; (b) the improvement of taxpayer
auditing, including 400,000 site inspections in 13 major cities; (c) improved internal management of
DGI through revised procedures; (d) incentives for tax inspectors and an end to lifetime employment
guarantees unrelated to perfcrmance; and (e) modernization of legal procedures to facilitate
prosecution of tax evasion. The proposed project would assist in the implementation of these goals.
1.44 The latest DGI Director General was named in November 1989; ongoing discussion with the
IMF and Bank eventually led to the definit.on of a basic strategy and by mid-1990 it was agreed that
DGI should concentrate on the development of a Large Taxpayers Collection System, on the
understanding that this system would be later generalized to all taxpayers; work was restarted on the
procedures and systems for internal auditing and control and tax inspection techniques. The equipment
component was redefined to conform with the new strategy.
1.45   The Large Taxpayer Collection System was completed in January 1991 and has been
successfully implemented in four major agencies; its roster comprises the largest 2000 taxpayers in
the country. The other components of 3015-AR are also underway. Training under the project for
DGI is being provided by the University of Buenos Aires for the next two years. The internal audit
component was designed and software development for 12 systems is ongoing. Tax inspection
methodologies are being prepared for Industrial Promotion beneficiaries and for exports, agriculture,
refrigeration, banking and finance, and oil sectors, as well as special software to assist in auditing
computerized accounting systems (large multi-user computer versions). Finally, as planned, the Large
Taxpayer Collection System is being modified to make it applicable to the universe of taxpayers.
D. LESSONS LEARNED
1.46   Lessons from previous Bank Involvement in public sector management projects indicate that
projects in this area need (a) strong commitment at all levels (political, managerial and technical); (b)
a clear focus and limited scope; (c) detailed project preparation with small proportions of unallocated
funds; (d) transparency in funding and selection of personnel during implementation; and (e) a sense
of ownership of the project by agency staff. This project benefits from very strong commitment from
the very highest political levels through DGI management and down to its staff. It has well defined
goals and concentrates on only one agency, the DGI, with only 3 percent of project funding affecting
other agencies (National Tax Directorate, National Tax Court and the Provincial Tax Authorities, and
one study on Social Security); Project preparation is very detailed, and every project activity is being
defined and activity performance measures determined for each one. DGI has decided to enter into a
Management Service Agreement with UNDP/OPS to ensure transparency and efficiency in contracting
and procurement. Finally, project sustainability is addressed specifically by the introduction of new



- 13 -
functions, procedures and systems in all major areas of the organization and in all agencies, together
with a training program which closely follows these modifications and is tied to the DGI incentive
system, which itself it tied to the yearly increase in revenue collection (see Annex I). Furthermore,
DGI has been successfully following a policy of using its own staff for project leadership and
execution in addidon to consultants where needed, thus creating a sense of participation and
ownership of the project.
E. AUA  F                   INVOLVEMENT
1.47   Supporting public sector reform is a fundamental Bank objective in Argentina. Previous Bank
findings and re&immendationsk have underlined the need for an increase in revenues, a reduction in
the complexity and lack of transparency of the system and the strengdening of the General Tax
Directorate's internal technical ability through improved organization, data processing and better
personnel procedures. The proposed project would strengthen the administrative and technical
capabilities of the General Tax Directorate and complement activities carried out under the Bank's
1986 PSMTAL (2712-AR) and the 1988 TATAL (3015-AR). The proposed operation would
consolidate, expand, and deepen key aspects of the previous technical assistance efforts to increase
revenues and provide sustainability, while addressing the neglected issue of voluntary compliance, and
in this way directly support of Government's reform program and the PSRL (3394-AR).
1.48   Continuous interaction between the Bank and the DGI since 1986 has modified the initial,
marginal role of the Bank in Argentine Tax Administration and resulted in full Bank participation in
the development of DGI's strategy. The Bank's participation would have a catalytic role in ensuring
continuity of an essential institutional development effort, as well as in support of activities that fall
outside DGI's jurisdiction, such as tax law sinplification and support of the Nati ,al Tax Cout. In
addition, the procurement of the required computer hardware, software, and technical assistance for
the new system is technically complex for DGI; thus DGI would benefit from the Bank's experience
in carrying out similar procurement as well as by its use of transparent evaluation methodologies.
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT 0BJECllVES
2.1    The proposed project aims to: (a) increase tax revenues without increasing tax rates by
enhancing the efficiency of the tax administration system; (b) ensure the continuity and sustainabiity
of the revenue increases; and (c) facilitate voluntary compliance through a perception of fairness and
equitable distribution of the tax burden in the population. The project would address four major issues
contributing to the inefficiency of the present tax administration system: (a) the multiplicity and
frequent contradiction of procedural laws and regulations on tax administration; (b) weakness and
excessive centralization of existing administrative systems and procedures; (c) poor service to the
public, reinforcing a negative image of the institution; and (d) inefficiency in collectionand taxpayer
auditing.
3/ World B&nl (1990) ArgaMiM: Tax Policy for Sabilizton and Economic Rwcovery (Wuhington)
World Bank (1990 Arietina: Reform for Price Stability and Growth (Washington)
WorMl Bak (1991) Tax Admintation As _smmnt in LAtin Ameica: Vols I & H (Washington) - drft



- 14 -
B. PROJECT DESCUION
2.2    The project consists of five components aimed at improving: (a) the Legal Framework; (b)
Administration; (c) Taxpayer Services; (d) Collection Systems; and (e) Taxpayer Auditing. The
project will finance consulting services, training, office refurbishing, equipment (see Annex 2:
Existing and Proposed Equipment at DGI) and software required by the DGI to: (a) review and codify
procedural tax laws and regulations to simplify and make coherent existing legislation, develop a
legislative database (hardware and software) and train DGI legal staff (2 percent of total costs); (b)
expand automated accounting, personnel and other administrative systems developed through 3015-AR
in all DGI agencies nationwide, acquire microcomputers and train staff in their use (18 percent of
total costs); (c) carry out taxpayer surveys, implement manual and automated systems and train staff
to improve the taxpayer services offered by the DGI (6 percent of total costs); (d) install in all
agencies the new automated collection systems for Large and Small Taxpayers developed through
3015-AR, acquire equipment, train staff and refurbish DGI offices nationwide (64 percent of total
costs); (e) collect internal and external information, develop methodologies and automated tools for
fraud trend detection and train taxpayer auditors in their use (6 percent of total costs); and (f) project
administration and auditing (6 percent of total costs).
1. L1gal Framework Improvements.
2.3    This component will finance consulting services for technical assistance, software systems
design and implementation, acquisition of computers and training, to review existing tax procedures
and prepare proposals for the simplification of the tax administration procedural legal framework, to
ensure simpler, faster, more efficient and stable procedures. This effort would complement a recent
Government initiative which reviewed and simplified all substantive tax laws. A major aspect of this
review will be the evaluation of all DGI-produced regulations.
2.4   (a) Simglification of the Laws. Review of existing procedural laws and preparation of a
simplified set ("texto ordenado"). Procedures will be simplified by, for example, establishing uniform
procedural definitions for taxpayers and tax administration for all taxes; integrating compliance with
several taxes; eliminating all legal situations that constitute procedural bottlenecks and resolving
ambiguous legal situations.
2.5    This effort would be led by a Permanent Commission on Legislative Review, comprised of
personnel from the DGI legal area and consultants as needed, whose task would be to carry out a
continual analysis of proposed tax legislation, to propose modifications, and to anticipate the
production of regulations to facilitate their application. The commission and DGI staff would use a
Legislative Information Database containing all laws, decrees, resolutions, etc. created to support
them in the preparation of new decrees and regulations, queries, and interventions in the
administrative and judicial review processes. This effort would be closely coordinated with a similar,
ongoing project at the Ministry of Justice under Loan 2984-AR to ensure compatibility, sharing of
information, and to preclude duplication of efforts.
2.6   (b) Unification of Tax Regulations. Existing DGI regulations will be reviewed for
redundancies, inconsistencies, and omissions, and a unified set issued to consolidate all previous
regulations.
H. Imurovements to the Administration.
2.7    This component will finance consulting services for technical assistance and training, and the
acquisition of hardware to continue the improvements begun under Loan 3015-AR, replicating results



- 15 -
obtained to zones, regions, and district offices, strengthening administrative areas not contemplated in
the existing loan, and the revision in two years of the organization, functions, remuneration, and
career paths of the DGI staff, with views to institutionalizing a new management culture. This
component would have the following subcomponents:
2.8   (a) Revision of DGI's Structure and Functions. A new general organizational structure has
been approved for DGI by Presidential Decree in June 1991. At the same time, the remuneration,
career path, and other human resource-related issues of the proposed structure are embedded in the
Collective Work Agreement entered into between DGI and its union, AEDGI, to which most DGI
staff belong. The Collective Work Agreement has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be
satisfactory as an initial starting point for personnel reform of DGI. In two years the proposed
reforms and introduction of technology through this project are expected to be absorbed in the
organization, and a review of the organizations and functions will be needed to update the Work
Agreement; this would be done on the basis of internal surveys. The implementation of the diagnostic
would be carried out by personnel of the DGI. At negotiations, DGI agreed to carry out an
organizational study and review of personnel pc:icies and procedures within two years of project
effectiveness. The resulting action plan would be implemented within a year of study completion.
study.
2.9   (b) Extension of Administrative Systems. A number of functions at DGI Headquarters were
identified as needing strengthening through the internal audit component of Loan 3015-AR. Through
loan 3015-AR, systems are being designed and developed, and will be installed at headquarters. The
proposed subcomponent would finance the acquisition of equipment for the installation of these
systems in all DGI offices throughout the country, as well as training DGI staff in their use. These
systems are:       l
- Target Selection and Control
- Taxpayer External Auditing
- Taxpayer Internal Auditing
- Revision and Appeals
- Personnel Administration: Recruitment, Benefits, Transfers, Control
- Tax Accounting: Bank Collection, Returns, Collections, Accounting Register
- General Accounting: Budget Programming and Execution, Financial Accounting, Accounts
Payable and Receivable
- Treasury
- Assets Management
- Acquisitions and Supplies
2.10  (c) Strengtheing the Research Directorate, The Research Directorate is charged with
carrying out studies on the functioning of the administrative system and fiscal matters, analyzing and
interpreting statistical information, and other tasks of information and analysis. At present, it is very
weak, both in training and in equipment. This subcomponent would finance the training of Directorate
staff in analysis and statistics, the acquisition of software and equipment and the creation of an
information database.
2.11  (d) Strengthening the Training Department. The Department of Training offers courses in
accounting, auditing, and general tax legislation, among others. The introduction of technology and
the accompanying changes in functions and skills requires the strengthening of the department by
modernization and enabling it to prepare and provide new courses and continuing support to the new
technology and functions to be introduced. This subcomponent would finance technical assistance for
the design of pedagogical material and course planning, provision of train-the-trainer courses and
external training, acquisition of photocopying and pedagogical equipment and of microcomputers and
peripherals, as well as modernization of the library through the acquisition of books and periodicals.



- 16 -
2.12  (e) Installation of Electronic Mail. Improved communications between the provinces and
headquarters are necessary for Information dissemination, such as new regulations or interpretations
of the law and messaging. This subcomponent would finance the acquisition of electronic mail
software and the training of users in all DGI agencies.
2.13  (1) Central Lbrary  The DOI suffers from a paucity of reference material on tax
administration, legal aspects, and accounting, which severely constrains carrying out the routine
functions of personnel In all areas, especially at headquarters, whe;.e policy is made. This
subcomponent would finance the acquisition of books and furniture and the selection and training of
librarians to create an adequate Central Library.
2.14   (g) Management Information System. The new automated systems Introduced through this
project and 3015-AR will produce a wealth of Information for use by senior management for decision-
making. A certain amount of collection and preparation for presentation is required for a more
efficient use of this information. This subcomponent would finance the design and implementation of
a simple Management Information System and training of support staff in its use.
2.15   (h) Supervision of DGI's Proceedings at the National Tax Court. The subcomponent
would finance the design and implementation of a system for the supervision and monitoring of DGI's
proceedings at the National Tax Court, the acquisition of hardware and training in the use of the
system. This effort would also be closely coordinated with similar on-going efforts at the Ministry of
Justice.
2.16   0) Strengthening the National Tax Court. One of the major problems regarding tax
inspection effectiveness stems from the delay caused by the administrative review contemplated in the
laws. The National Tax Court, to which taxpayers appeal DGI decisions, has an average waiting
period for judgements of almost three years. The heavy caseload and the limited resources available
to the Court do not permit increased efficiency in the future; the Tribunal's pending caseload is eight
years behind and increases by 10 percent every year. To remedy this situation, this subcomponent
would finance technical assistance for a diagnostic of National Tax Court administration and the
development of a simplified and automated set of procedures at the National Court. In addition, the
subcomponent would finance hardware and telecommunications equipment to run the system and
provide access to the Legislative Database at the DGI and at the Ministry of Justice.
2.17 (I) Supervision of Penal Interventions. Unfavorable DGI audits, determination of arrears or
penalties, fraud, etc. may result in interventions of the legal offices of the DGI throughout the country
in the Penal Courts. There is at present no systematic way of monitoring such interventions. The
subcomponent would finance technical assistance and hardware for the development and
implementation of a system to this effect and training in its use; this effort would be closely
coordinated with similar on-going efforts at the Ministry of Justice.
2.18   (k) Assistance to the Provincial Tax Authorities. DGI expects that the systems and
procedures developed and installed through this project, as well as the training system developed,
could be of assistance to the Provincial Tax Authorities. To this effect, once the new functions and
technology have been absorbed, this subcomponent will finance consulting services for a feasibility
study to determine the possibilities for technology transfer to the provinces. In anticipation of this,
DGI will strengthen the "Consejo Federal de Organismos Tributarios de la Repdblica Argentina".
2.19 (1) Link with Social Security. Similarly, DGI expects that the experience gathered through
this project could be useful to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. The subcomponent would
finance a feasibility study on the possibilities of technology transfer to that Ministry.



- 17 -
III. Improvement of Taxpayer Services.
2.20   A May 1991 survey of taxpayers confirmed a common perception of lack of information on
tax obligations, lack of enforcement, lack of motivation by DOI staff, too much emphasis on known
taxpayers compared to unknown evaders, and the frequent amnesties granted by the Government.
About 90 percent considered DGI to be inefficient. Low public regard for DGI's effectiveness is
influential in precluding voluntary compliance; adequate service to the public similarly influences
voluntary compliance. This component seeks to increase voluntary compliance by improving DOI's
image and the services it renders to the public, both in information dissemination and direct services.
The other components implicitly result in an improvement of the taxpayer services Infrastructure; this
component specifically addresses this issue in four subcomponents:
2.21   (a) Collection of Taxpayer Information. The subcomponent would finance technical
assistance for carrying out six semiannual surveys, targeting representative subsets of three groups of
taxpayers: 1,000 Largest Taxpayers, 30,000 Large Taxpayers, and Other Taxpayers. The surveys
would be done nationwide, and would identify public perceptions of service areas needing
improvement, which in turn would be interpreted and analyzed by DGI staff.
2.22   (b) ImRrovement of Services. The subcomponent would finance technical assistance,
training and hardware to prepare and execute a plan of action to improve services, targeting the three
groups previously mentioned (1,000 Largest Taxpayers, 30,000 Large Taxpayers, and Other
Taxpayers). Some services being considered include: better direct service to the public in local
offices, direct access to the taxpayers' current account for queries and data input, and access to the
Legislative Database.
2.23   (c) Program of Plblic Information Dissemination. The subcomponent would finance
consulting services to prepare and execute a program to disseminate information to the public.
2.24   (d) Strengthening DGI Areas related to Information Dissemination. Several groups within
DGI provide information to the public - Publishing, Press and Public Relations among them. The
subcomponent would finance consulting services and the acquisition of equipment (microcomputers,
publishing software, printers and technical assistance as well as training) to improve the effectiveness
of these areas.
IV. Improvement of Tax Collection.
2.25   This component will finance technical assistance, the acquisition of hardware, the refurbishing
of offices and training to improve DGI's tax collection systems. Two collection systems are to be
installed, using technology ' that facilitates compatibility across manufacturers and accommodates all
computer sizes, from microcomputers to mainframes; they can therefore be installed in all DGI
agencies. The Large Taxpayer Collection System was developed through Loan 3015-AR and will be
installed in 36 agencies. It is a real-time system, and modifications to taxpayer records are done
directly through a terminal compared with batch type systems which require deferred data entry. To
function properly, the system is connected to a teller of a commercial bank installed on DGI
premises; this eliminates one major source of error by verifying that funds transferred are correct.
This connection is essential to the success of the Large Taxpayer Collection System, and therefore
DGI must enter into a contractual agreement with a bank before installing the system in each agency;
I/ The Oraclc Datsbme Managemcnt System mnning on a Unix Opemting System.



- 18 -
this was agreed at negotiations. The development and testing of the Generalized Taxpayer Collection
System will also be carried out under 3015-AR; it will follow the same principles as the Large
Taxpayer Collection System and in effect be a modification of it; it will be installed under the new
project. Due to the large number of taxpayers, it will be a batch system.
2.26   (a) Large Taxpayer Collection System. Second Phase. This subcomponent will finance the
acquisition of hardware and training to expand the installation of the Large Taxpayer Collection
System in the remaining agencies nationwide (approximately 110 more agencies).
2.27   (b) Generalized Taxpayer Collection System. This subcomponent will finance the upgrade
of existing hardware to enable it to run as well the Generalized Taxpayer Collection System which
would be installed in all agencies of the DGI nationwide (approximately 150 agencies); it would also
finance consulting services for user training, and the refurbishing of all offices to enable them to
accommodate the proposed hardware.
2.28   (c) Telecommunications Network. The projected increase in efficiency of operations through
decentralized procedures and systems must be accompanied by an effective means of transferring
information, both for operational reasons and for central control and monitoring requirements. This
subcomponent would finance technical assistance for the design and installation of a
telecommunications network linking all agencies and the training of users and network support
personnel.
2.29   (d) Decentralization and Consolidation of Systems in the Mainframe. The existing
mainframe systems, numbering almost 2,000, would largely become obsolete with the introduction of
the decentralized and more agile Unix-based systems. Nevertheless, a relatively small number of
systems (estimated at about 300), would still be operational. This subcomponent would finance
consulting services to carry out the analysis of existing systems, identification of systems to transfer
to the new equipment, modification of the systems and installation.
2.30  (e) Electronic Data Capture and Transfer. One of the main sources of error in data
collection is data capture, i.e., the manual keying of data from paper into a magnetic medium.
Although the new systems will reduce this type of error considerably, it will not be eliminated. This
subcomponent would finance technical assistance for the design and implementation of a system for
the capture of tax return data directly by computers and the training of its users, as well as the
acquisition of computer and telecommunications equipment. A second source of errors and
inefficiency is the transfer of funds, at present carried out through various automated and manual
processes. This subcomponent would finance technical assistance for the design and implementation of
a simple subsystem for electronic transfer of funds and training of users.
V. Improvement of Taxpayer Auditing.
2.31   The component will finance the technical assistance and the acquisition of database software
needed to expand the methodologies for sectoral analysis for taxpayer auditing developed under Loan
3015-AR to include new field techniques as well as analysis of the massive amounts of information
needed for effective cross-checks, and includes the following subcomponents:
2.32   (a) External Information. The information which will be produced by the Large and
Generalized Taxpayer Collection Systems will be collected at headquarters and can be cross-checked
with information obtained from external sources to detect tax evasion trends across sectors and the
full universe of taxpayers. To obtain external information, agreements must be made with suitable
information-producing organizations such as agriculture cadastres, banks, industry-specific censuses,
banks, export registering agencies, etc. This subcomponent will finance consulting services and



- 19 -
hardware to provide assistance to these entities to enable them to produce the information in the
correct format and state of correctness, and to receive and store at headquarters the information so
collected.
2.33  (b) Internal Information and Database. The wealth of information produced by the new
collection systems would be collected and consolidated with external information in a central database
at headquarters. This subcomponent would finance the technical assistance necessary for the
development of the database, the development of taxpayer auditing methodologies for sectoral analysis
using automated tools, and the training of users and analysts.
2.34  (c) Imorovement of Field Taxpaver Auditing. The proposed expansion of the taxpayer
auditing methodologies would include modern methods of field auditing. This subcomponent would
finance technical assistance needed to develop an expert system for use by Inspectors (taxpayer
auditors), the acquisition of portable microcomputers, and training of the inspectors.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
2.35   Total project costs are estimated at US$30 million equivalent, based on prices of August 1991
(see Annex 3. Project Costs by Component). Bank-financed components represent 66.7 percent of the
total cost, with the rest being financed by the Argentine Government. Local costs amount to US$16.8
million equivalent (56 percent of total costs); the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$13.2
million equivalent (44 percent of total costs). The proposed local cost financing is justified on the
grounds that (a) public sector finances remain substantially weak; and (b) Goverrnent efforts to
improve this condition - particularly through attacking tax evasion and increasing tax collection are
creditable and warrant support. Project base costs are based on similar costs for on-going project
3015-AR, with the following proviso: it is expected that information technology equipment will
continue to decrease in price, as it has done in the past 20 years. For this reason, no separate
contingency allowance has been made, as costs are expected to be less than estimated. A PPF in the
amount of US$1.5 million equivalent has been set up to support project preparation and start-up
activities and will be refinanced under the Loan. The Summary of Project Costs (Table II.l) and the
Financing Plan (Table II.2) follow.



- 20 -
Table 11.1
Summary of Project Ccsts .
Local      Fotelgn        Total   % of Bass
-       (US$ thousands)
. Legl Frwswk
(a) Simplification of Laws                             366          100          466           1.6
(b) Unifiation of Replations                           158           20          178           0.6
ToW                        524          120           644           2.1
d wh~h PPF                          185            0          185           0,6
II. Ad _lbn
(a) Rev. of Structure & Functkns                       410            0          410           1.4
(b) Administrative Systems                             570         2070         2640           8.8
(c) Studier DIrwtorate                                  63          140          203           0.7
(d) Training Department                                450          200          650           2.2
(e) Electron  Mail                                     163           50          213           0.7
(f) Central Ubrary                                      75            0           75           0.3
(g) Management Information System                       80            0           80           0.3
(h) Supervision at Fisal Tribunal                      217          200          417           1.4
(i) Strengthening Fisal Tribunal                       175          200          375           1.3
(j) Supervsion of Penal Interventions                  124          t20          244           0.8
(k) Provincial Tax Authorities                         200            0          200           0.7
(I) Social Security Technology Transfer                 50            0           50           0.2
Toal                      2427         3130          5557         18.5
f whch PPF                          208          662          870           2.9
Ill. TIxp,t SeMoee
(a) Taxpayer Services                                  300            0          300           1.0
(b) Improvement of Services                            564            0          564           1.9
(c) Dbination of Information                           632            0          632           2.1
(d) Publishing, Pres, et.                              100           50          150           0.5
Totl                      15W             s0         1646           5.5
o whIch PPF                          58            0           58           0.2
IV. Cosetloes
(a) Laie Taxpayer Collection System                   8498         3000        11498          38.3
(b) Generaized Taxpayer Collection System              650         1500         2150           7.2
(c) Telecommunications Netvork                         280         4150         4430          14.8
(d) Mainframe systems                                  230            0          230           0.8
(e) Electronic Data Capture                            480          400          880           2.9
TOtal                    1J138         9050         19188          64.0
of wh~h PPF                          90            0           90           0.3
V. TaxPwVe AudiNg
(a) Extera Information                                 130          260          39            1.3
(b) Intea Information                                  305            0          305           1.0
(c) Field Taxpayer Auditing                            270          300          570           1.9
Total                      705          560          1265           4.2
of whbh PPF                         165            0          165           0.6
Proel Impmn_atIon UrI                                  1650           50         1700           5.7
of whch PPF                         132            0          132           0.4
PROJECT TOTAL                                        16840        13160        30000         100.0
of wh_hPPP                          838          662          1500          5.0



- 21 -
Table 11.2
Financing Plan
ToWl         IBRD          Dal       % IBRD        % DOI
- (USS thousands) --
Consultants                               4814         4165          649          86.5         13.5
Equipment                                20478        12210         8268          59.6         40.4
Training                                  2183         1650          533          75.6         24.4
Office Refurbisbing                       1075          825          250          76.7         23.3
Project Implementation Unit               1450         1150          300          79.3         20.7
PROJECT TOTAL                          30000         20000        10000          66.7         33.3
ot whIw h PPF         1500         1500            0         100.0          0.0
L Legal Pranw k
(a) Simplification of LAs                466          435           31          93.3          6.7
(b) Unification of Regulations            178          165           13          92.7          7.3
ToWl          644          600           44          93.2          6.8
of which PPF          188          185             0        100.0          0.0
IL Ad mnaretlon
(a) Rev, of Structure & Functions         410          175          235          42.7         57.3
(b) Administntive Systems                2640         2640            0         100.0          0.0
(c) Studies Directorate                   203          200            3          98.5          1.5
(d) Training Department                   650          650            0         100.0          0.0
(ce) Electronic Mail                     213           150           63          70.4         29.6
(f) Central Lbrary                         75           75            0         100.0          0.0
(g) Management Information System          80           so           30          62.5         37.5
(h) Supernvion at Fcal Tribunal          417           375           42          89.9         10.1
(i) Strengthening Fical Tribuna           375          375            0         100.0          0.0
(j) Supervision of Pen  Interventions     244          230           14          94.3          5.7
(k) Provincial Tax Autborities            200          200            0         100.0          0.0
(1) Soial Security Technolo  Transfe       50           50            0         100.0          0.0
ToW          5557         5170          387          93.0          7.0
of whkh PPF           870          870             0        100.0          0.0
Ill. Taxpawer Seivine
( Taxpyer Sevice                          300          300            0         100.0          0.0
(b) Improvementof Service                 564          500           64          88.7         11.3
(c) Dissemination of Information          632          600           32          94.9          S.1
(d) Publishing, Press etc.                150          150            0         100.0          0.0
TOdl         1646         1550           96          94.2           5.8
of whIch PPF           so           58             0        100.0          0.0
IV. coastuoa
(a) Large Taxpyer Collection System     11498         4000         7498          34.8         65.2
(b) Generalized Taxpayer Collecon        2150         1950          200          90.7          93
(c) Telecommunications Network           4430         3430         1000          77.4         22.6
(d) Mainfram  systems                     230          200           30          87.0         13.0
(e) Eletonic Data Capture                 880          830           50          94.3          5.7
Totle       191"         10410         8778          54.3         45.7
o tihkh  PF            90           90             0        100.0          0.0
V. Taxpar A%ditg
(a) Extera lInfomation                    390          360           30          92.3          7.7
(b) Internal Information                  305          260           45          85.2         14.8
(c) Field Tayer Auditing                  570          500           70          87.7         12.3
Totdl        1265         1120          145          8865         11.5
ofwhEchPPf            165          165             0        100.0           0.0
Prota ml pia   a  A  IU L%                1700         1150          550          67.6         32.4
of whIch PPF           132          132            0         100.0          0.0
PROJECT TOTAL                           30000        20000        10000          66.7          33.3
ofwUmIhPPp            1500         1500            0         100.0          0.0



- 22 -
D. COST EFliECTIVENESS ANALYSIS
2.36   Although technical assistance projects do not in general lend themselves to calculations of
return on investment due to the institutional strengthening nature of the activities, the revenue gains in
this instance can be projec ed to calculate their net present value (NPV) and cost effectiveness over
both the total investment proposed and site-specific investments.
Assessing Overall Projected Performance.
2.37   Based on its own estimates on tax evasion, DGI management conservatively estimates that the
effect of implementing the Large Taxpayer Collection System in all agencies will be an increase in
annual collection of 1.2 percent, and the increase due to the implementation of the Generalized
Taxpayer Collection System in the same agencies would be 3.6 percent at project completion. The
NPV projections given in Table 3 (see Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Model) show that most of the
reduction is achieved early: 79 percent in the first 5 years and almost 96 percent within the first 10
years (assuming that total Argentine GDP will remain at US$132.2 billion, which is the level of GDP
projected by the World Bank for 1991, and zero real growth in the Argentine economy over the
foreseeable future). These results have been discounted at a 25 percent real discount rate to in view of
the historic volatility in the Argentine economy. Even with these conservative projections, revenue
gains projected exceed project costs by substantial amounts; US$510 million in the first three years.
2.38   By project completion, collection costs are estimated to be roughly 3.2 percent of additional
revenues, falling within ten years to 1.2 percent of tax revenue increase and in the long run to 1.0
percent. While the 3.2 percent ratio is high compared to overall cost-per-revenue ratios for most tax
administering agencies, the 10-year and long-run ratios of 1.2 percent and 1.0 percent are squarely
within the typical international standards for tax administration effortsk.
2.39   Moreover, cost per present value of project-generated revenue ratios are at or below typical
enforcement cost-effectiveness ratios for the U.K. and U.S., which averaged between about 6 percent
and 8 percent during the mid-1980's (see Annex 4). By project completion, this ratio is projected
under a more pessimistic scenario to reach 7.9 percent; by year 10, 4.6 percept. its long run value is
projected at 4.4 percent.
Site-Secific Cost Effectiveness.
2.40   In the first three years of operation only one large agency (out of six) and 69 of the smaller
agencies (out of 88 at present) will increase their revenues in excess of their site-specific costs. Over
the long run, three of the six larger agencies and 82 of the 88 smaller offices would fail this test.
International comparisons of enforcement costs per enforcement-generated revenues, however, suggest
that a ratio of costs to revenues closer to .20 is a more appropriate performance standard. Using this
criterion, nine of the 13 non-Buenos Aires regions, none of the six Dependencias Internas Fiscales, all
but one of the 16 Agencias Capital Federal, and 31 of the 88 smaller sites would pass the cost-
effectiveness test by project completion, and only one Dependencia and 33 small sites would fail over
the long run.
2.41   Naturally, there are more, and equally important, criteria leading to the installation of the
Large Taxpayer Collection System not only on these agencies but even in new agencies - since if
S/ During 19776-77 tax administiton costs averaged just .56% of revenues in the United State, .96% of revenues in
Austalia, 1. 1% of revenues in the Philippines and 1.01% of revenues in Canada. (Source: U.S. Congre, House Committee
on WayS and Mean, Subconunittec on Oversight, Undergrownd Economy, Hearings, 96th Congress, lst Sesion, July 16,
September 10 and October 9 and 11, 1979 (Washington, D.C.: U.S. Governmt Printing Office, 1980), p. 125.)



- 23 -
Table 11.3: Projected Tax Revenue Improvemenb.
Prolection                                      3 Years     10 Years
Cuutlative Evasion Reduction                   .0303          .0476
Marginat Evasion Reduction                     .0072          .0008
Cum. Additional Revenues per GOP               .0029         .0046
Project Cost per NPV
of CumuLative Additional Rev.                .0325          .0124
Year's Nominal Evasion Reduction Revenue    388.95         610.23
Net Present Vatue                           509.65        1366.91
Notes:
In millions of 1991 US dollars.
Assumed initiat year evasion reduction  =      .0134
Assumed decay rate of evasion reduction *      .35
Assumed annual real discount rate o            .25
enforcement effectiveness were perceived to be uneven across the country, an incentive would be
created for taxpayers to relocate their taxable ac.ivities to those regions with lax enforcement
activities. Moreover, in this way favoring evasion efforts of some taxpayers over others, the
perception of fairness of tax admirnistration in Argentina would be compromised, and undermine
taxpayer compliance throughout the country.
2.42   There are many additional benefits of the computerized Large Taxpayer Collection System not
captured in this analysis. These include reduced data entry errors, enhanced ability of DGI
management to control both the receipt and registering of tax returns and tax payments, improved
accuracy and timeliness of current accounts reports, and others which cause these revenue projections
to understate the true cost-effectiveness of these site-specific investments.
2.43   The implementation of the Generalized Taxpayer Collection System for smaller taxpayers is
estimated to cost approximately US$2.72 million; DGI management estimates that this implementation
will generate an additional US$239 million in tax revenues. This is an extremely cost-effective
investment, yielding a cost-effectiveness ratio of 0.80 percent by project completion, 0.31 percent
after another 7 years, and 0.26 percent over the long run.' These ratios are at or below international
norms even for overall tax administration cost-effectiveness (see earlier footnote). This effort thus
appears to be highly cost-effective regardless of what set of assumptions are employed to project
results.
E. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
2.44   The principal benefits of the proposed project will be a decrease of tax fraud and an increase
in collection revenues very conservatively estimated at better than US$175 million per year,
significantly contributing to more sustained Government financial improvements. This will result from
the modernization of the collection system and procedures and taxpayer auditing mechanisms; a more
efficient DGI operating in a modem and participatory manner through the introduction of
administrative and monitoring systems, with the consequent improvement in access to information,
transparency of decisions and accountability; improvement of the culture of the organization; increase
in DGI productivity due to better service quality and better managerial practices and more timely
6/ As in the previous et of projections, thes projections assume evasion reduction decay rtes of 35% per annum and real
discount rte of 25% per year. First year evasion reductions arm expected to yield curent values of projected annual revenue
gains equal to DGI management's prcjected revenue gain by the end of year three.



- 24 -
decision-making, as well as higher qualifications of personnel employed due to better hiring and
payment practices; and an increase in voluntary compliance by the population as a result of a
perception of a more just and equitable distribution of the tax administration burden through the
impartial and evenhanded application of simplified laws to the full universe of taxpayers.
2.45   The major risks to project implementation are possible changes in leadership leading to
changes in project strategy, and overloading the capacity of the organization to accept change. To
reduce these risks, the Government agreed at negotiations to guarantee the continuity of the Project
Implementation Unit to diminish the effect of a change of political leadership or senior management;
this would be agreed at negotiations. To minimize disruptions, new technology will be introduced by
developing pilots in selected agencies, and their subsequent extension to all agencies.
m. PROXECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. AGENCIES INVOLVED
3.1    DGI will be the executing agency for this project; it will also be responsible for providing
counterpart funds. Two other agencies are involved, both under the Secretariat for Public Revenue, as
is the DGI. These are the National Tax Directorate, with which DGI will work on producing the
simplified tax law set ("texto ordenado" - 2 percent of project costs), and the National Tax Court,
which will be strengthened in coordination with DGI (1 percent of project costs).
B. PROJECT EXECUTION
3.2   The proposed project would be completed in four years. Annex 5 describes the key project
activities, their performance indicators and the implementation schedule, all of which will be further
refined as the project advances. Training is an important aspect of the project, and to assure central
coordination and economies of scale, a cross-component training plan has been produced. Specific
training programs will be submitted for approval to the Bank on a yearly basis. To implement the
project, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been set up in the DGI, now tasked with the
implementation of the first Tax Administration Loan. The PIU will report directly to the DGI
Director General, and will comprise a Project Manager (consultant), a Deputy Project Manager (DGI
staff), a Cross-Component Coordinator (DGI staff), and miscellaneous support staff (see Annex 6:
Project Implementation Unit). The PIU will be strengthened by specialized consultants for part-time
or fixed-term contracts (training, administration, hardware, and software), and DGI will provide
clerical, equipment, office and related support to the PIU. The PIU will also continue to coordinate
the on-going first Tax Administration Project (3015-AR) until its end scheduled for 1992. To ensure
the continuity of the project, the Government agreed at negotiations to maintain the composition of
the PIU during the execution of the project.
3.3    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that within six months of project completion
DGI will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to assess the success of the project, including
the achievement of institutional, administrative, operational, and financial objectives and goals, and
general evaluation of the lessons learnt from project experience.
C. PROCUREMENT
3.4   Procurement of goods under the proposed project will be carried out in a manner consistent
with Bank Procurement Guidelines (May 1985). Consulting services would be contracted in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981).



- 25 -
3.5   The bulk of the procurement of goods consists of information technology equipment and
system software for an estimated US$9 million, which will be acquired in packages of not less than
US$500,000 each through international competitive bidding (ICB). Supply contracts will include
maintenance and technical assistance; a one-year warranty must be provided by the manufacturer. To
the extent practicable, pedagogical equipment, standard software packages and office furniture
estimated to cost US$100,000, US$200,000 and US$200,000 respectively will be packaged into
contracts of not less than US$25,000 each and procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Miscellaneous technical books and publications may be procured through local/international
shopping or direct purchasing in packages valued at US$25,000 each or less up to an aggregate of
US$100,000 equivalent. Since book purchases would be for small numbers of the same title, it would
not be practical to procure these through LCB. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents would be
used for all ICB and LCB procurement.
3.6    Office preparation and refurbishing will be geographically scattered and therefore relatively
small in individual size. Therefore, local shopping will be done for contracts valued at US$35,000 or
less, requesting at least 3 quotations from eligible contractors; for contracts above US$35,000, LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used.
3.7   The Bank's prior review of procurement documentation (based on the Bank's Standard Sample
Bidding Documents) will cover all major procurement steps (advertising, bidding documents,
evaluation methodologies and reports, award recommendations and contracts), and would apply to all
contracts procured under ICB and the first two contracts for goods and for office refurbishing under
LCB regardless of their value. The Bank will also review all documentation (terms of reference,
evaluation of proposals and evaluation methodology, award recommendations and contract) for all
consulting services included in the project, both for individual consultants (Project Implementation
Unit and specialized consultants: training, legal, administration, statistics and publishing) and
contracts for technical assistance, training and software development, as well as results of the studies.
To ensure maximum participation by DGI staff and reduce coordination difficulties, a ceiling will be
set to individual consultancies (excepting the Project Implementation Unit), in the amount of USS 1.2
million, all other technical assistance being carried out by consulting firms or other entities. The
limits established for prior Bank review of procurement decisions will result in a coverage of over 90
percent of Bank-financed project costs.
3.8   The borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have been reviewed by Bank staff in
the context of previous projects (most recently, 3015-AR) and have been found acceptable for all
methods of procurement proposed under the project.
3.9   Tables HI. 1 and 111.2 summarize the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement, as well as the procurement implementation schedule.



- 26 -
Table 111.1
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangemenits
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                                             Total
Project Element                      ICB          LCB         Other                  N. B. F. (a)       Cost
1. Works
1.1 Office Refurbishing              --           -           1.1                                      1.1
(0.8)                                    (0.8)
2. Goods
2.1 Computer Equipment               8.8                                                  7.3          16.1
(8.8)                                                 (-)          (8.8)
2.2 Telecommunications Equipment     3.4                      0.8                                       4.2
(3.2)                     (0.0)                                    (3.2)
2.3 Software Packages                            0.2                                                    0.2
(0.2)                                                 (0.2)
2.4 Books (b)                                                 0.1                                       0.1
(0.1)                                   (0.1)
2.5 Fumiture                                     0.2                                                    0.2
(0.2)                                                 (0.2)
2.6 Pedagogical Equipment                        0.1                                                    0.1
(0.1)                                                 (0.1)
3. Consultancies (c)
3.1 Design and Supervision                                     1.0                                      1.0
(0.9)                                    (0.9)
3.2 TA & Software Development                                  3.8                                      3.8
(3.4)                                    (3.4)
3.3 Training                                                   2.2                                      2.2
(1.6)                                    (1.6)
3.4 Project Implementation Unit                                1.7                                      1.7
(1.1)                                    (1.1)
4. Miscellaneous
TOTAL                                1Z2           0.5         10.7           -            7.3          30.0    (e.)
(12.0)       (0.5)        (7.9)                       (-)          (20.0)
Noat": 1gw.s hi p     _wonU wea am rU  ptIv. aonsft nbw,cd by tho Bank loon.
(,) N.M". = No Bank fk,acd. In t  c, 001 oounterpuet hundn.
(b) booke loaIimeanaluhhoppft or dlet porc.s..
(ca) A oonouoig .wvlc. ahouldbe prow.dh In oordance wHh World Bank.
Cadeeh.. U. of conuadnws by Wod Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank a Executig Agncy
(Waahingln on.Q, Auut ?1ua1
(d) roteM am not xmut du lo remdb,



- 27 -
Table 111.2
ARGENTINA
SECOND TAX ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US thousands equIvalent)
Pro                                 Prolect Yw                                     Total         Remarks
Project Element                       project              1             2            3               4                  Payment
Works
25          195           363           ISO             50                         813    LC8/Sbopp.
Office Refuitkbing                                                    x
73SS         2125          2050           375                                      11918        ICB
Minis & periphea                         '*,                  ,x
1950          S50           850             500                       4150    ICB / LCB
Telcommuniatiom Equipment            mxx                                          m _
50           is           400           550            550                        1565        ICa
Upgrade of equipment                       ***  00' mx                          X
400          200           700           660             100                       2060        ICB
Replkation of Admin Systems                *ff  x            xx,     _,xxr
121           30            79                                                      230        LCB
Software Packagte                          .. _ ___
100                                                                   100 Shoppingor
Books                                                                                                                               Direct Purchse
100                                                                   100        LCB
PeeAgogical Equipment
Conauhnncbe
160          298           294          274             174                        1200
Individual consultants           *s *WIMUIXXXX -
S1           98           102              sO                        331
Revision of Structure & Functionrm _s        _
265          WS             61            10                                        931
LeglTA                                     "s                             ,.K
10           SS            IS                                                       80
MIS                                        e 
20          180                                                                    200
Expert Systems                             see
35          395            50                                                      480
Tax Retuns & Electronic Tansfer            sm ,              x
35          225            25            35                                        320
Taxpayer Auditing Database            .      *      ,      _     .     K_
24          135            92              65                        316
Replication of AUD1N                         _m -X 
& training                               171          395           495           265              IS                       1341
Repliation of Colection Systems                3             X           -                     _
& traning                                              25            75                                                      100
Intallation of EM & traing                      XXX
58          332           300           400             100                       1190
Taxpayer services                                                    m      _
10           75            75            70                                        230
Desin and imp. of network                  *0  xscn x                 x
90           S0            30                                        200
Review of mainframe "stems 
110          12S           120           70              20                         445
Improvement of info. exchange              *es _                  ,       m   -
Po     Imp       b_   Unt                   200           375           375          375             375                        1700
TOTALS                                 9,036        7,955         6,640         4,336          2,023                        30,000
(Bank*1nanced                         (1,50)        (7,495) - (6,00)           (3,315)        (1,610)                     (20,000)



- 28 -
D. DISBURSEMENT AND SPECIAL ACCON
3.10   Disbursemeints of the Bank loan would be made against 100 percent of costs not provided as
counterpart. By Loan effectiveness, DGI should have signed a Management Service Agreement
Contract with an acceptable procurement agency and prepared an administrative manual identifying
steps and times for administrative processes. For expenditures outside the Management Service
Agreement, a special account in US dollars with an authorized allocation of US$1.5 million,
equivalent to an estimated four months of average disbursements, would be established in a bank
acceptable to the Bank; the PIU would be entitled to make periodic withdrawals from the Special
Account at the exchange rate applicable on the day such account is debited; and the Bank would
replenish the Special Account for the amount of the withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at
the request of the Borrower. Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOE) for office preparation and refurbishing, goods and equipment contracts valued at
less than US$200,000 equivalent. The documentation for these expenditures would be retained by the
executing agencies, with copies in the PIUJ, and made available to Bank staff during supervision
missions. Al' other expenditures would be fully documented. The use of the Special Account and
Statement of Expenditures were agreed at negotiations.
E. ACCOUNTING AND AUDIrS
3.11   The PIU will maintain records for each project component, and consolidate them into the
project accounts and SOEs. Supporting documentation will be maintained by the PIU and made
available to Bank missions and independent auditors as required, as agreed at negotiations.
3.12   Project accounts, including the special account and SOEs, will be audited annually in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles applied by external private independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, with terms of reference for auditors and reports approved by the Bank; this
was agreed t negotiations. Cost of the consultant services to be employed for the annual audits
(US$50,000 equivalent through the life of the project) will be eligible for financing under the loan.
Audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within five months after close of the Government's fiscal
year (June 30); this was agreed at negotiations.
F. PROJiECT MONITORING
3.13   The PIU's primary responsibility will be the timely execution of the Project Implementation
Plan. Project performance indicators (Annex 7) will be monitored to track improvements in the
overall efficiency and effectiveness of the DGI. Overall monitoring and evaluation of the project will
be the responsibility of the PIU, which will be responsible for the physical and financial monitoring
of project activities. Specific tasks include: (a) preparing semiannual progress reports on project
implementation, which would be submitted to the Bank by May 30 and November 31 of each year;
(b) measuring quantitative and qualitative objectives achieved; (c) reviewing and updating project
implementation schedules and submitting them to the Bank for approval; (d) preparing the Project
Completion Report. These responsibilities and tasks were agreed at negotiations. To facilitate
measuring partial objectives reached, key activities have been identified by DGI and performance
indicators derined for each one.
3.14   Monitoring by the Bank will be carried out in semiannual visits (around July and December)
to review the progress in the implementation of the project, and discuss modifications to the Action



- 29 -
Plans and allocation of resources. An extensive mid-term review will be carried out at the end of the
second year of execution of the project. In addition, it is expected that IMF specialists will continue
their supervision and assistance visits to the DGI.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1    At negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on the following:
(a)    DGI will carry out an organizational study of DGI and a review of personnel policies and
procedures no later than two years after effectiveness; the resulting action plan would be
implemented no later than three years after effectiveness; (paras. 1.27 and 2.8).
(b)    Before installing the Large Taxpayer Collection System in an agency, DGI should have
entered into a contractual agreement with a bank to set up a counter in this agency (para.
2.25).
(c)    The Government will agree to maintain a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), including a
General Coordinator and appropriate staff, whose organization and staffing is acceptable
to the Bank, for the duration of the project (paras. 2.45 and 3.2);
(d)    DGI will implement the staff training plan presented at negotiations in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.2);
(e)   Individual Consultancies (excepting the Project Implementation Unit) will be limited to a
maximum of US$ 1,200,000, all other technical assistance being carried out by contracts
with consulting firms or other entities (para 3.7).
(f)    Use of the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures; terms and conditions,
accounting and auditing procedures (paras. 3.10 and 3.11);
(g)    The project special account will be audited on annually by auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and the audit statement would be sub.nitted to the Bank no later than June 30 each
year (para. 3.12);
(h)    DGI will carry out the Project Implementation Plan in a timely fashion (para. 3.13);
(i)    The PIU will provide semiannual project implementation reports in May and November of
every year, measure quantitative and qualitative objectives achieved, review and update
project implementation schedules and prepare the Project Completion Report (paras. 3.3
and 3.13);
4.2    At effectiveness, the following condition should be met:
DGI will have signed a Management Service Agreement Contract with an acceptable
procurement agency and prepared a manual detailing administrative procedures and
defining reports to be used by DGI staff and the Bank for project supervision. (para
3.10).



-30-
Recommendations
4.3   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project wouid constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$20 million equivalent to the Republic of Argentina, for a period
of 17 years at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 31 -                                     Annex I
I1.1
THE GENERAL TAX DIRECTORATE (DGfl
1.1          The General Tax Directorate ("Direccidn General Impositi-a" or DGI) is an agency
reporting to the Secretariat of Public Revenues in the Ministry of Economy. TiL Sational Tax
Department ("Direcci6n General de Impuestos"), the National Tax Court ("Tribunal Fiscal") and the
National Customs Administration also renort to this Secretariat. The National Tax Department is in
charge of formulating and initiating legislation and, therefore, is ir close touch with the Legislative
Power (Congress). In discharging these duties it is not required to consult with DGI. The Fiscal Tribunal
produces judgements of appeals by taxpayers regarding the DGI's determinations of their arrears and/or
penalties.
1.2          DGI is responsible (Presidential decree 1237 of June 26, 1991, Annex II) for
administering taxes, encouraging voluntary compliance of legal and regulatory duties, promoting a
permanent improvement of the image of the institution, in particular with respect to its integrity and
efficiency, and the coordination and supervision of all departments and other units of the DGI to improve
their efficiency. It is headed by a Director General, assisted by four Deputy Directors General in charge
of the Planning, Operations, Legal and Administration and some advisors, specialists in administration
and computerization. In addition, a Fiscal Auditing Unit, and Internal Auditing and Supervisicn Unit
report directly to the Director General (see Organization Chart, below).
1.3          The central office is responsible for setting national operating and compliance policies,
collecting, receiving and auditing taxes and taxpayers, collecting statistics, conducting technical research,
keeping in touch with the public and taxpayers for information and educational purposes, and monitoring
departmental performance as well as organization-wide administration.
1.4          Approximately 76% of DGI's staff work in operations, 5% in planning, 6% in legal,
12% in administration, and 1% reports directly to the Director General. The four Deputy Directors
oversee 16 Directorates plus the provincial administration. At this point it is perhaps useful to state that
because of the Federal organization of the Government of Argentina, at the provincial level there are
two different tax administration offices. One is staffed by DGI personnel and is directly responsible to
the central administration of DGI in charge of collecting national revenues. The other, totally
independent, is responsible only to the Provincial Government, and is in charge of collecting provincial
taxes (mainly real estate and municipal taxes, and some stamp duties). These tax offices belonging to the
Provinces are staffed by provincial (non-DGI) tax collectors. The national revenues are split between the
Central Government and the Provinces according to the Co-Participation Law; half goes to the national
treasury and the remainder allocated to the provinces in proportions defined in the Law.
1.5          The provincial offices in each of the 23 provinces are staffed by personnel appointed by
DGI, following an organizational pattern similar to the one existing at the central level. They are in
charge of collection and auditing at the provincial level. Therefore they carry out important activities like
receiving tax returns, assessing liabilities, dispensing taxpayer services, auditing taxpayer accounts,
investigation of fraud, and preparing cases for litigation.
1.6          To manage the provinces, DGI distinguishes three zones in charge of Directors appointed
by the Director General and who report to the Deputy Directors General in the fields of their competence
and jurisdiction. These three zones are subdivided in fourteen regions, 2 with five regions and one with
four. Under the regions there are more than 100 districts in charge, basically, of administrative functions
(reception of declarations, notifications, supporting auditing activities).



- 32 -
Annex.
1.2
Personnel and Policy Issues
1.7          All public and private organizations in Argentina operate under a Collective Work
Agreement between the union and the organization. DGI and its union, AEDGI ("Asociaci6n de
Empleados de la DGI"), began negotiations for a new Collective Work Agreement in 1990. Agreement
on terms not having been reached, it was submitted to arbitration by the Ministry of Labor. In November
1991, the Ministry of Labor decided in favor of DGI, with small modifications. The union appealed to
the Labor Chamber at the Ministry of Justice, which in December decided in favor of DGI. It is expected
that the union will accept the Agreement, although an appeal to the Supreme Court is still possible. In
the meantime, important features of the old Agreement have been suspended by Decree, and DGI has
been operating under the modified old Agreement. The most important of the suspended features are the
abolition of lengthy procedures for the dismissal of permanent personnel, the removal of union
participation in managerial decision-making including promotion of personnel, and union licenses,
whereby DGI continued to pay employees carrying out full-time work for the union.
1.8          DGI has a satisfactory organization and structure. It consists of a simplified organizational
structure at headquarters and a decentralization of functions and responsibilities to agencies in the
provinces which will be complemented by the introduction of operational and administrative systems and
training through the proposed project. Staff are distributed by function performed rather than by tax
collected, and DGI currently employs 16,000 people of whom 11,000 are permanent staff (9.629 in the
present permanent payroll plus 1,500 transferred from the railways who are in the process of being
reassigned within DGI). The remainder is transitory staff without a permanent appointment, hired for
a one-year renewable period. At this time, they comprise 4,300 students doing administrative and clerical
work plus 600 new taxpayer auditors. DGI intends increasing its personnel to over 18,000 by hiring
2,000 new professionals, mainly accountants, and 300 administrative staff.
1.9          About 50% of the staff are at the central administration office and the province of Buenos
Aires and 50% in the remaining provinces. The distribution of staff among these offices indicates a
reasonable balance between the center and the other organization levels, although the number of staff
dedicated to administrative functions is high in comparison with Tax Administration Agencies in other
countries.
Skills and Seniority of Staff
1.10         Over one third of the permanent staff have university degrees, mainly in accounting
(70%) and law, plus administration or economics, and a few in other fields. Staff grades range from 1
to 26; entry level is usually grade 3. About half of the permanent staff are at grade 17 or higher, grade
17 being the lowest professional grade. Close to 2/3 of the permanent staff is between grades 17 to 20.
About half of the permanent staff is 45 years old or over; however, the non-permanent staff includes the
above-mentioned students, which lowers the age average. Over 50% of the total are male. The
employment period in DGI averages over 15 years for professionals and is much higher for adlministrative
staff (60% of the staff have over 14 years of service, of which a few have over 40 years of service).
Recruitment Policies and Procedures
1.11         Every year a decree of the Government approving the fiscal budget determines the size
of the permanent and non-permanent staff of the DGI as well as its financing. Following general
guidelines given by the Director General, the Directorate of Human Resources defines the characteristics



- 33 -
Annex 1
1.3
of the additional staff needed, if any, usually with emphasis on accountants and lawyers, and invites,
through the media and universities, interested candidates to apply. An entrance examination is given to
the candidates chosen, after a process of pre-selection since the number who apply is usually larger than
the vacancies to be filled. Those selected by the Direction of Human Resources are invited to take a
further psycho-technical examination as a last requisite for appointment.
Salary Levels                          Table 1: Rcpmentativo Mozh1y SaIacs in tho DO (in USS)
1.12          DGI  salaries  are  F                              Prent       Proposed
composed of a base salary plus a                                               Sr Ls s  
monthly bonus based on collections and   aOireot     20           1.360         3.730
Advisor     26          1.030         2,210
a performance evaluation. Four per    INV. chb       24           1.413         2.236
thousand  (0.4%) of the  collections    Advisor      23            190          1,792
Sue.lviaor    22        1,509         2,277
(equivalent in 1990 to US$ 55 million,    lstirvot,,  l e          991         1,339
or the equivalent of US$ 3,400 per DGI    Admininstrtor  10        447           716
staff member per year) are reserved to    Adcinistratot   4        407           631
increase the remunerations of the DGI    Note: th "bove slary sole does not include theollion bonuses of 30-50%
staff  ("Cuenta   Especial  de           of 5lary.
Jerarquizacidn"). 35 percent of this
amount is paid to the employees
proportionally, according to their salary level. The rest is distributed following a bi-annual merit review;
levels 23-24 in managerial positions, and all 25-26 (about 1200 employees), receive a 100 percent bonus
each month. The remaining staff are classified into five categories according to performance, receiving
no bonus, 25 percent, 50 percent, 75 percent and 100 percent bonus. The amount of the bonus depends
as mentioned on collections, and is calculated using a complicated pro-rating formula according to grade
and salary; it is common for high performing staff to receive a bonus equal to 30-50 percent of their
salaries.
1.13          The old salary scale presented a constraint to recruitment of specialist technical staff since
they wpre not competitive with salaries in the private sector. This induced many staff members to hold
additiuiial marginal jobs, and influenced the recruitment policy, which in consequence tended to favor
hiring of students on a part-time basis (S hours a day). As soon as the Collective Work Agreement is
ratified by the Union, DGI proposes raising salaries to more competitive levels. The new salary scales
have been determined, and are part of the Agreement (see Table 1).
Promotions
1.14          In 1990 the automatic system of promotion by seniority was discontinued. The new
method requires candidates to undergo a mandatory examination before being eligible for promotion.
Between October 1991 and February 1992, more than 1000 examinations for managerial positions wil
take place, to promote staff to vacant positions and to review staff who are acting but have not been
confirmed in managerial positions.
Staff Training
1.15          The Department for Training and Staff Development in the Directorate for Human
Resources has 60 staff and has been in existence for 23 year. It offers courses in accounting, auditing
and general tax legislation oriented to improve the technical capabilities of the taxpayer auditors. They



- 34 -
Anneax 
1.4
also offer courses specifically designed to meet the needs of administrative staff, such as informatics and
clerical skills. The length of these courses ranges from one week to three years on a part-time basis.
Training units exist also in the provinces.
1.16          Funded by 3015-AR, DGI has reached an agreement with the University of Buenos Aires
to offer courses for taxpayer auditors. The first group of 240 auditors and supervisors started training
in August 1991. Other courses are being given, such as a one-week course on planning fiscal auditing,
and another on systems analysis.
1.17          The computerization of many of the functions of the DGI will require intensive training;
some of this will be done by the consulting firms developing the software, but it is intended that most
of the training, especially in the provinces, be carried out by DGI staff to ensure continuity and
sustainability. Extensive training of DGI staff, including "train the trainer' courses will therefore be
required.



DIIa  Ow.1uz
I mm1
i;IUII Wdm  a
NwUlYSw o)     _o
A v                                  K>m
svwm  A
amug%u _
l             l=V
_    I   eV
|-=7la 11vm::~
I~~ ~    ~                               o   l



- 36 -
Annex 2
2.1
EXISTING AND PROPOSED EOUIPMENT F1OR DG
Oth,r  than  the  existing  hardware,  all  descriptions  given  are  indicative  of  the
size,  performance  and  number  of  equipment  required;  more  precise  determination
can only be made during the execution of project.
Exstins Hardware at headquarters and In all 132 agendes
One mainframe (IBM 4381 model R24) with 32 Mbytes of internal memory (RAM) and
67 Gbytes of off-line storage on hard disk (HD). 6 tape units. One laser printer
(IBM 3800). 2 line printers (IBM 4245 and 4248). Approximately 100 terminals
(IBM 3278 and similar). One communications front-end processor (BM 3275) with
40 ports.
16 workstations dedicated to data entry, Olivetti D-730 (8 operational); 45 IBM
AT personal computers (older technology 80286 chip).
One minicomputer recently acquired to run the Large Taxpayer Collection System
(IBM RS6000 model 530), running Unix V with 32Mbytes RAM and 1.6 Gbytes HD. 27
terminals (IBM 3151).
Equipment to be acaulred with counterpart funds
45 minicomputers, RISC technology, using UNIX V; 32Mbytes RAM and 1.5Gbytes HD;
824 terminals.
94 printers with speeds of 400 lines per minute (1pm); 87 printers with speeds
of  300  characters  per  second  (cps);  240  dot-matrix  printers  with  speeds  of 200
cps; 4 laser printers with speeds of 10 pages per minute (ppm).
240  personal computers  (PCs),  MS/DOS  operating  system, 80386SX  chip  with  2Mb
RAM and 60 Mbytes HD.
Eouipment to be acquired with Bank funds
For Improvement of the Administration:
2 Unix servers, 30486 biprocessors, with 24Mb RAM and 400 Mb HD and 32Mb
RAM and 850 Mb HD, respectively, to service the Electronic Mail network.
I Unix server, 80386, 16Mb RAM and 320Mb HD for the Research Directorate.
221 PCs, 386SY. 22 for electronic mail points not already included in the
network; 12 for the Research Directorate; 3 for the Central Library; 184
for the execution of administrative systems.
Memory increase and Ethernet and X.25 connectivity for the Training Dept.
equipment.



- 37 -
Annex 2
2.2
132  dot-matrix  printers:  92  for  adminstrative  systems,  4  for  the  Research
Directorate, 16 for Electronic Mail, 18 for the Training Dept. and 2 for
the Central Library.
3  Postscript  laser  printers,  speed  17  ppm,  for  Electronic  Mail,  for  the
Research Directorate and for the Training Dept.
30 communications equipment for the principal node of the electronic mail
network  and  for  interconnection  with  points  not  already  included  through
other systems.
1 Unix 386 server, 16Mb RAM  and 320Mb HD, for the Penal Intervention area;
2 Unix 486 servers, 32Mb RAM and 640Mb HD, for Judicial Proceedings and
the Legislative Database; 1 Unix 486 biprocessor server, 32Mb RAM and 1Gb
HD, for the Fiscal Tribunal.
70 PCs 386SX, connected via Ethernet with the above 4 servers (40 for the
Fiscal Tribunal and 30 for the Legal Areas in DGI).
41 printers, speed 300 cps, for the 70 PCs.
3 terminals of the type UNTerminal, for loading data into the Legislative
Database.
2 Postscript laser printers with speeds of 17 ppm.
Communication Equipment for connection with the general network.
For Improving Taxpayer Services:
For the publishing areas: 3 Maclntosh II FX, one Postscript laser printer
with speed 17 ppm, and one scanner of 300 dpi;
Miscellaneous equipment to be determined for direct payment through
terminals of type POST, reception of taxpayer returns in magnetic media,
and payment and queries through public and financial networks.
For Improving Tax Collicton:
(a) For the Large Taxpayer Collection System:
60 RISC UNIX minicomputers, as Pefore.
40 UNIX multiuser 80486 computers, 16Mb RAM and 320Mb HD.
900  asynchronous  terminals,  for  the  above  multiusers  and
minicomputers.
110 X.25 connection boards.



- 38 -
Annex 2
2.3
170  heavy  duty  dot-matrix   printers;  170  slower  dot-matrix
printers.
(b) For the Generalized Taxpayer Collection System:
Expansion of memory (32Mb more) and disk (600Mb more) for 9 of the
minicomputers.
10 RISC UNIX minicomputers, as before.
46 UNIX multiuser 80486 computers, 16Mb RAM and 320Mb HD.
184 386SX PCs to form 3-machine local area networks for 46 agencies
and for equipment to capture taxpayer returns.
396  asynchronous  terminals,  for  the  above  multiusers  and
minicomputers.
138  X.25  connection  boards  (46  for the  RISC  machines, 92  for the
PCs).
138  communications  lines  (including   point-to-point,  public  and
satellite).
Modems  for  all  equipment,  switching  devices  and  network  control,
measurement and monitoring equipment.
Small  laser  printers,  scanners  and  other  optical  devices  for  data
entry of taxpayer returns.
Heavy duty dot-matrix printers for all agencies.
For Improving Taxpayer Auditing:
100  386SX   laptop  portables  and   100  Dyconix-type  printers,  for  field
auditing.
8  386SX   PCs,  as  information  transference  workstations  for  external
lonformation source agencies.
Communications equipment for the PCs.



-39-
Prolect Coos by Componert                                                                                                                                Annex 3
211
kak Financed                                     Counterpart Funds
Cemlg   one"  risk O_                   aml          TOd   :MaM .   I_d   T*d                          0          Til  0i
11. A      _Olflhbal.~                 1065        3x           710          Ui          1703        30O                       e            o          3r 1        55
IILT                                   IUIt5 o       so    u                  0         I1       o                 o                                   9* 1    16
IV. Ca    _ dlom                        m          81tO         610         S10        10410          f21                    41*          50         .,7I       lot"
V. rVoWAud g                            5so        5s0            0           0         I15                        0           20           0          145        15
llTp4        Sw                        111 SlIOO                  O2          0         1S50         3t0                        0           0t         94O        144
POJECTTOTAL               U t                    1331            O          tm   e    1000          s0o am                               no         IMlO m0000
du*MAf P             760         443          78           O        Ut0 1                                   0           O            0        Ut0
L Lae rwak
(a) S 5upWk1can of Lam
D)p ItSUPU6d                         40                                               40          10                                                to          so
AnaM-    d.                         200L                                             200          10                                                10         210
Sy9t enauoUn                         90         100           I                      195                Ill                                         it         2t
Subl"           Su          100            e           0         433          20            0          I             0          31         4"
(b) Undlaon of R q_
DuWIASuprAia9                        350                                              30          13                                                U           43
Ahu        A SimpL                   t0                                               40                                                             0           e0
Systinmu I_                          so          z0                                   7                                                              0          75
u.em            140    e      e                        0         1            13            0           0            0          I3         173
TOTAL                                  470                       00                     no           33            a          II            0          44 e         4
wmo ww Ls                                                                                                                                       s
(a) Rcv. Of 9SU%Wn e pAiMaI
D"ip&S" A                           lo                                             1oo           39                                               5           1  
TA: lnwal Sww                       50                                                50so       120                                                           t70
TA. Rwpabasn                        ZS                                                zs          76                                               74          101
Isaum"          175           0            0           0         I73         an3            0           0            0         206         400
(b) Ad _b-ulw Sy-
1.ad. Habm  P                                                                                                                                        0          7o  7  0e 70
RapMmtie                                       3210         20                      2410                                                             0        2410
S d(wm  Pedmg                                   140                                  1to                                                             0         160
Seaeil           70        am7           200           0                       ea4  0       0           0            0           0         140
(ca)  S   uwd4 Dk ta,u
SXwwsogu.                                      1in           20                      144                                    2                        3         103
Se.am      uu                                                 e 20              0      0                       a                                                4 0 0   
ladmuSa          40         140          30       e    20    o     I           0                         0  3       0            3         203
(d)TaAInInDOeRI
DesiOpmdSWada                       10t         1oo         300                      no0                                                             0          0so
Pedascmal eqd-nm                                100                                  100o                                                                      100
Lbauy                                            so                                   so                                                                        so5
Bubb            100          no          200           0         no            0            0           0            0           0         "a
(a) Eiasuw MNd
SoftapadkAox                                    s0          100                      150 6s                                            43                      21
11116"            0          so          100           a         IS 1O         0            0          so            0 o3                  213
(0 C50 r1l LuoalY
Cmzio                                            so *0       1           is          75                                                             0           75
submw        0           so          is          16           71           a           0            0           0           0           75
(g) ManagmeLdOuaadON  ,K.
syuaIinihONia                        so                                               so          so 
subl             S            0            0           0          so          30            0           0            0          20
(b) SupA*lof as Pb T1 dl                                  .
spimaalAl                           145         200           10                     375          35                        7                       42         417
SM_              M          2e0           10           0         373                        el a                     e a        42         417
(i) Su 0 b9d   ASl TrIll
Syate ImzNalaha                     1ts         200           10                     375                                                             0         37
1S1111          10S         m             10           0         m             0            0           a            0           0         375
@D Supa*len d Penl  1    _                                                                             I         .a
syatm Imidhdo                        so          no0          to                      230                                   14                      14           4
subb"            Be          l            so           0         330           0                       14            0          14         244
(k) fmt6d Tu AuMm*Aw4
PemihiUtymaI                        inO                                              ISO                                                             0         ISO
Sta,enbendaof Perin                  s0                                               so                                                             0so
SLdmAd          MO0           0            0           0         200                        0           0            0           0         mI
O)ScdaS*MJdyTo4dvlQO7
Fewbd_ e 1Se      e            "e  so                                                                                                                     $  ls 12
PmFhySoai7|                                                                                                      ||                                   1          O
Bubb" e P                     a            0           0          SO           a            0           0            0           0           50
TTar[                                 1206        371 0lo                              s lo7           el          0            el          0         3el        SW7
.UoDP |              i0n         442          78          t7C                                                                         0 I7I



- 40 -
Proljct Coat. by Compoent                                                                                                                                   Annex 3
3.2
Bank Financed                                     Counterpcrt Funds
OaaYan"Tr""              We"          T                       COO"  Trek"               Wu           TOtl    a
11I.Tomwoorservisoms~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toa
111. Ta_  Sa1_a                                  -                          ----
(*)ThpW                                a                                                                                                                             x
S m aid A-1y O                                                tOO                      3O                                                               0          300
subom   me            ~0          Ift           0          3M0                        0            0           a            0         n
(b) Imp -     f 
D u phDwo.u                          30                       t00                      500          44                                                 44          3
Dai_                           xo ordpo                 ne                         o"oo o4                                                        4           5"
U.Motal               ~~         ~~~~0 no0      0          54           64            a            0           0           64         604
(c) Dlb4mW    o digoegt
Da       d   _                      40                                                 4            32                                                32          0
ed              GM             0           a            a o       0        0                  a                        a           'a         m
Cd) "uh4hdi Ptom. s-
Sum9 _uiAg                            so          so           20                      WO                                                               0          W5
su"                            o          so            0          1a0 o                                  a            a            a omo
TOTAL                                  t11           so O         101           0        15O                         a            0            0 U                  10"
st_*~~5                                                            38 04                                                           O 
of-                     -           --$1 1                   -    8            --II                       I    -      I
Iv. C_aidaW
(a) LaqaTaqsywCossdton 5_a
RapklmMoa                             30        300            o          3           400D          30         7246          200                     7446        1140
Stamm            30         SW4          S            300        4040           30         726          200            0        74"         1M1
w- -     (b) GafluIbdTiryWC ollS@                                                          ;
ReOvaa                                30         154                      450         190                                    200                      No          2W
Uuokal           30         law4           0          410         160            0            0         500            0          no0         2160
(a) Tdoauini)o_ NIwat
Da A SuP on                          1o0                                               100                                                              0          too
iuonA                                13         3200                                  1330                      9S0                       s0         100          4330
utal            23          3200           0            0        340             0           60           0           so0        1000        4430
(d) MaW  n s3tA
TA. R.vim and mMcdtmdon                0                                               2100          30                                                30          200
SUNNe m                        0           0            0          o30                       a 0          0            0           30        2no
(a) E Dwa-d Do CAPua
DvA stUW.:TaurMm                     100                                              1t0            10                                                10          110
Tm Rau mmImalmd                      2S0         400           30                       40           is                                               1u           4
D000u4p       Ebdc.: lauCOtWA         s                        so                       30           10                       Is                      2t          7n
subwd           40          ol            30            a          w40e 00 e o                           I I s                    so o
TOTAL                                    00        5140          6101          10       10410           6         SMS           411           50        P3          1616
V. TcpapwrAUdib                                              -----
(a) Kgura 1dl a i 
Epdbiat biommdn                      100        2n0                                    360          30                                                 30          3W
subta           100           60            0           a          30           30            0           0            0           30         301
(b)  1tana IMoruada
0maof D4sbm.                         240                                               2f0          45                                                 45          305
suI1"           250            0           0            0          26           46            0           0            0           40         340
(G)FIfdT&wwrAu"osf
.    SW                             200          340                                   30N          50                       20                        70         FM
Ss _              .                         000  a      0           eo          50            0          20            a           70         570
TOTAL                                   U0o                        0            0        1120          125            0          50            0         146         12aw
aVlAPPP               145                                               145                                                             0          145
P4 I__ ur UWn0hI Ul                                                                                        I p  T
a                   1         5         0                                                3Ui95r50 i   S             i                                    O          40 0 
AadM                                  350                                      1        30            so 5   0                             20           450        45
I           d     _ at                2S0                                               250 I                        I                                   0          2s0
ab                           1        100                                                100          3 IIs                                                         055
pAu       Ap                          250                                               250                                                              0          Z30
Audib                                  so20                                              2o01                        I                                   0           so0
TOrAL                                  1150            0                        0        11S0          300           o0           0          200         5o0 |       170
sUN-",               -n                                                 in              I           I            I            I32  1 1  -   - .



- 41 -
Anx 4
4.1
COff EFFECTIVENESS MODEL
4.1           DGI management has calculated the net effect of all components of the prop"ised project
to be an increase in taxpayer compliance leading to an increase in revenues of 3.4 percent. Two
important questions are raised by this expectation; namely, is it reasonable, and if so, can it be employed
to both guide the monitoring of project performance and to project the likely cost-effectiveness of the
project?
4.2          It is difficult to judge with certainty just how reasonable this expectation is. No
systematic evidence exists by which to accurately gauge the extent of tax evasion in Argentina.
Nevertheless, DGI managers, while recognizing the paucity of systematic evidence on evasion in
Argentina, believe that it represents 30-35 percent of total revenues. They believe that the two Bank
projects can jointly eliminate roughly 10 percent of the existing evasion in the country, a reasonable
assumption.
4.3          To (a) project annual project performance and provide milestones for evaluating project
performance, and (b) ascertain whether project benefits are likely to exceed its costs, a simple model can
be constructed to predict annual and cumulative improvements in DGI collections. That model is then
ealibrated to be consistent with the performance expectations stated by DGI management.
A. A Model to Project the Time Stream or Revenue Consequences
4.4           To predict period-specific increased compliance the following model is used:
zR = l-r)s~~~~~~~~~1 ~(1)
where
ER,   =       evasion reduction during period i, measured as a fraction of previous period's
collections
r      =      initial period evasion reduction as a fraction of previous period revenues
d      =     decay rate for evasion reduction
t      =      number of periods since beginning of the proposed loan work.
4.5           A basic rate of reduction in evasion is assumed as a consequence of implementation of
the proposed project. It recognizes that (a) the rate must be applied to a smaller base each year, as the
pool of evaders shrinks,' and (b) the rate must decay over time, as only hard-core evaders would remain,
who would very difficult to dissuade from trying to evade their legal tax obligations.2 This model
predicts (a) only a portion of the full evasion reduction expected to be achieved by the project to occur
during the first year of operation of the project, (b) slow and diminishing increases in this evasion
reduction over time, and (c) an asymptotic approach of this evasion reduction to the full expected
reduction over the long run.
'Thir is captured by the (1-r)of term in the numemrtor of equrtion (1).
2Ibi is captured by the diacauzt factor in the domintor.



- 42 -
Annex 4
4.2
B. Assessing Overall Projected Performance
4.6             Table 4.1 displays the projected net present value of the proposed loan under the
assumption that the activities sponsored by that loan will reduce evasion by this amount by the time all
components of that loan have been executed. That table reveals some interesting features of the
projections. First, an initial annual rate of reduction in evasion of 1.34 percent and an annual decay in
this rate of 35 percent were chosen to yield the assumed cumulative reduction in evasion of 3 percent
over the first three years since project inception. Second, most of the reduction is achieved in the early
years after completion of the project. For example, approximately 79 percent of the total long run
reduction in evasion is accomplished during the first 5 years of the project, while almost 96 percent are
accomplished within the first 10 years. Third, while a 3 percent reduction in evasion is presumed to be
achieved by the end of year three, the predicted long run effect is almost 5 percent.'
Table 4.1:      Annual Projected Tax Revenue Improvements
Ebie1l2fl              ~.G3 Y                                 10                      60 Years
Cumulative Evasion                    .0303                   .0476                    .0498
Reduction
Marginal Evaion                       .0072                   .0008                    .0000
Reduction
Cumulative Additional                 .0029                   .0046                    .0048
Tax Revenues per
GDP
Project Cost per                      .0325                   .0124                    .0103
Prent Value of
Cumnlative Additional
Revemre
Year'c Nominal                        36t.95                  610.23                   637.95
Evaion Reduction
Revenue
Not Prent Value                        09.65                 1366.91                  1636.71
Notes:
Asumed inal year evaion reduction                                       .0134
Asumed decay rate of evasion reduction         =                        35
Asumed anual real discount rate                =                        .25
'in millions of 1991 US dolla and asuuming 1991 Argeia GDP of USS 132.2 billion, based on World Bank
estates. Furthennore, to keep projections simple nd conservative, post-1991 real GDP has been aumed to remain
cotant at the 1991 level.
4.7             The final row in Table 4.1 projects the present value in 1991 U.S. dollars of the revenue
gains from the reduced evasion identified in columns I and 2. These projected revenue gains are based
on the assumption that total Argentine GDP will remain at USS 132.2 billion, which is the level of GDP
3'A period of 60 Yor is taken her as a conveniat denareation of the long mn. Most sisnficant chnges in paameter of
intaeat oauir wuithin the first three to seven year foUowing ineqpion of the prjet. Whther one chom  20. 30, 40, S0 or 60
yeam to aitify lng nun effect i a n*ttr of little or no conquce.



- 43 -
Annex 4
4.3
estimated by World Bank researchers for 1991. These GDP figures are conservative, since they assume
zero real growth in the Argentine economy over the foreseeable future. Furthermore, they have been
discounted at a 25 percent real discount rate, in order to reflect the extreme uncertainty in the Argentine
economy. Even with these conservative projections, Table 4.1 reveals DGI revenue gains which exceed
project costs by substantial amounts. In fact, the projected net present value of the proposed project over
the first three years of the project alone, even assuming a fairly high real discount rate of 25 percent, is
US$ 510 million. Over a 60 year period, the net present value of the project under these assumptions
reaches over USS 1.64 billion. This latter figure, however, ignores the additional costs of maintaining
and operating the systems put in place under the proposed loan that would occur beyond year 3. Given
both the magnitude of the projected revenue gains and the large positive net present value over the first
three years of the proposed project, however, the proposed project would appear to be cost-effective.
Even at a 50 percent discount rate, the project would generate an NPV over its first three years of US$
345 million and a present value over 60 years of over USS 653 million.
4.8            These projected results can also be aswssed by considering the ratio of project costs per
present value of increased tax revenues generated. Table 4.1 reveals that by project completion costs will
weigh in at roughly 3.2 percent of additional revenues; while by ten years project costs will fall to 1.2
percent of project-generated revenues; and in the long run this ratio will fall to 1.0 percent. While the
3.2 percent ratio is high compared to overall cost-per-revenue ratios for most tax administering agencies,
the 10-year and long-run ratios of 1.2 percent and 1.0 percent are squarely within the typical range of
such ratios.' Furthermore, these projected cost-effectiveness ratios are near the low end of the
distribution of such ratios for enforcement activities of tax agencies in the U.K. and U.S (see below).
This suggests that the proposed project is not only cost-effective, but is expected to perform up to
international standards for tax administration efforts.
4.9           In Table 4.1 the expected 3 percent reduction was assumed to be achieved by the
completion of all components of the proposed project (i.e., within 3 years). Even if this increase is
assumed to be achieved only over the very long run - i.e., by the end f 60 years - the proposed project
still remains cost-effective. In particular, even under the following assumptions:
- ultimate evasion reduction rate after 60 years of only 3 percent
- evasion reduction decay rate of 35 percent
- zero growth in real GDP
- real discount rate of 50 percent
the project is anticipated to yield, in present value terms, revenues in excess of costs of over US$ 199
million over the first three years of operation, and total net present valued revenue gains over the long
run of over USS 385 million, at a cost of US$ 36.5 million (both the proposed project and 3015-AR) plus
post-project operating costs for the systems put in place under this loan (see Table 4.2.). Moreover, cost-
per-present value of project-generated revenues ratios are still reasonable, while somewhat high compared
to international standards of average cost-effectiveness of tax administrations, are at or below typical
enforcement cost-effectiveness ratios for the U.K. and U.S.
4.10           Table 4.3 displays cost-effectiveness ratios for 1985-87 for various tax enforcement
4 Duning 1976-77 tX adminisi cosu avCd just .56% of rvece in the United States, .96% of rvenucs in Austraia,
1.16% of revce in the Philippie and 1.01% of eveas in Caada. (Source: U.S. Congem, House Committee on Ways aN
Mean, Subconmittee on Ovrasipi, Undergiwd Ec~oMwy, HeW*,g, 96th Cong. 1t Sesion, July 16, September 10 and
October 9 and 11, 1979 (Wahington, D.C.: U.S. Govemnat PrAing Office, 1980), p. 125.)



- 44 -
AnnA 4
4.4
Table 4.2:     Annual Projected Tax  Revenue Improvements Under Pessimistic Performance
Assumptions'
Emigb2                              3 Ya                   I Ye                    60 Years
Cunuwlalve Evasion                  .0182                   .0288                   .0302
Reduetion
Mar3insl Evsion                     .0043                   .0005                   .0000
Reduction
Cumulative Additional               .0018                   .0028                   .0029
Tax Revenes per
GDP
Pujoet Cost per                     .0790                   .0440                   .0425
Pewat Value of
Cunuladve Additional
Revenues
Year's Nominal                      233.22                  368.87                 386.61
Evasion Reduction
Revenue
Not Present Value                   199.40                  371.74                 384.86
Notes:
Assured initial year ovaion reduction                                .008
Asumed dweay rte of evasion reduction        z                       .35
Assumed   nul real dcouvt rate               -                       .50
'In millions of 1991 US dollur snd auming 1991 Argenn GDP of USS 132.2 billion, bsed on World Bank
eatiates. Fuaherm, to kep projections simpe and consevatve, post-1991 al  DP has boen aumed to remain
conautat at tho 1991 level.
activities of the Inland Revenue in the U.K. and the Internal Revenue Service in the U.S. These ratios
vary between just shy of 1 percent to 50 percent. These ratios, however, tend to center around 6 percent
to 8 percent, and rarely range above about 20 percent. The U.S. average over the three years reported
in Table 4.3 is 6.1 percent, while the U.K. Special Investigations average is 7.8 percent. The U.K.
Local Offices Investigations average, on the other hand, is 14.8 percent. Only five of the 38 ratios
reported in Table 4.3 exceed 20 percent. Given these figures, a reasonable standard of enforcement
performance would surely require a cost-effectiveness ratio of less than 20 percent. Moreover, even
under the extremely pessimistic assumptions about project performance reflected in Table 4.2, the overall
cost-effectiveness ratio projections of 5.6 percent over 3 years and 1.8 percent over the long run are
squarely within these international standards for enforcement activities.
4.11           In sum, the model specified above provides a convenient, flexible, plausible and simple
means of both projecting overall annual and cumulative DGI performance under the proposed loan and
providing criteria for assessing that performance. Under both cautiously optimistic and decidedly
pessimistic assumptions about project performance, that model projects substantial and positive net
economic gains for the proposed project that are broadly consistent with international tax administration
cost-per-revenue experience.
C. Asssing Projected Site-Specific Cost-Eteetfveess
4.12           Site-specific projections of net revenues and cost-effectiveness of the Large Taxpayer



- 45 -
Annex 4
4.5
Collection System expansion based on the same model employed to project overall project costs and
benefits may be found in the tables following. Those tables reveal that over a 60-year time horizon three
of the 6 Dependencias Internas Fiscales offices and another six of the 88 smaller offices are projected to
fail to produce revenues in excess of their site-speciflc costs. Over the more limited 3-year time horizon
of the project, two more of the Dependencias Internas Fiscales offices and another 13 of the 88 smaller
offices fail to generate revenues In excess of costs; i.e., 24 offlces would fail to generate revenues in
excess of costs over the short run, while 9 would fail over the very long run.
Table 4.3 Tax Enforcement Cost-effectiveness Measures: U.K. and U.S.A.
Entorcemet Acvlty                       I96              1966            1987
U.K. Invstpdoa'
Loca Offlm:
Company Accouns                     .137             .147            .145
Uninoorpomted Aournts               .185            .185             .172
Other                               .083            .053             .063
Schedule D2                         .270             .270            .278
Schedule El                         .083            .053             .062
PAYE audit                          .179             .159            .156
Spacial Operaion.:
Speial Investigations'              .0128           .0286            .0128
Enquuy Branch5                      .0476            .0526           .0588
Special Offies                      .0323           .0294            .0286
Section 739 Group'                  .100             .0769           .0833
Interaonal Section"                 .00909           .0111           .00351
Finance Divison9                    .250             .S00            . na
U.S. Examintlons'o                     .0613            .0572           .0655
1  Inland Revenue, Management Pamning, Vol. 2, 1988 Mangement Plan (U.K.: Inland Revenue, May 1989), pp.
17-20.
'  Active pumuit of ghosts and moonlightn.
'  Inspecions of wage rcords of employer, and constuction industy contrncton to check complineo and discourage
fraud in the operation of PAYE and ubcontractor dedcuction acheme.
4 Aimed at ountering lrge scale tax avoidance.
'  Concen_ra  on deteting case of fraud relating to busines accounts, both for criminal prsecution and for money
eane"ma.
6  Cover a variety of types of caas ranging from tax avoidnce devices to evasion, pesistnt non-compliance and
complex cas  beyond the reaources of local tax offica.
7 To provent avoidance of income tax by the transfer of assets abroad.
I  Deals with rmjor cases involving taufer pricing nd controled foreign conpanies.
9  Audits the sysans opoerted by funncial institutions making bulk claims for reimbunement of tax deducted at aourve
ftom payments recived.
10 U.S. Depatnet of Treaury, Intemal Revenue Service. World Bank calcuations. See Alka Miar, "Draft Report
on Productivity Mesurcmnt in the Depatment of the Trasry and Appraisal for Application in Latin Amnrica,"
Public Sector Manamt Unit, Latin American nd tho Caribbean, World Bank, August 4, 1988.
4.13             Nine of the 13 non-Buenos Aires regions, none of the six Dependencias Internas Fiscales,
all but one of the 16 Agencias Capital Federal, and 31 of the 88 smaller sites are projected to meet a
more stringent .20 standard of cost-effectiveness by project completion (3 years). Long run compliance



- 46 -
Annex 4
4.6
with this .20 standard should be achieved by all of the large taxpayer non-Buenos Aires offices, one of
the six Dependencias Internas Fiscales, all of the Agencias Capital Federal, and all but 33 of the 88
smaller sites.
4.14          A case can still be made for extending the DOSMIL system to even those offices that fail
to meet either the .20 cost-effectiveness standard, or for that matter, the considerably less demanding 1.0
cost-effectiveness standard. Such a case rests on the observation that if enforcement effectiveness is
uneven across the country, incentives will exist for taxpayers to locate their taxable activities in those
regions with lax enforcement activities. Just as the Promociones Industriales have distorted taxpayer
location decisions in Argentina, as well as undermined taxpayer compliance by making it possible for
firms to disguise some of their taxable activities as tax-exempt, so would uneven DGI enforcement
activities across regions continue and enhance such tax evasion. Furthermore, uneven enforcement across
regions, by de facto favoring evasion efforts of some taxpayers over others, ultimately compromises the
fairness of tax administration in Argentina - and as a consequence must undermine taxpayer compliance
throughout the country.
4.15          In addition, there may well be additional benefits of the computerized DOSMIL system
not captured in this analysis that could further tip the scale in favor of including all 124 sites. These
could include reduced data entry errors, enhanced ability of DGI management to control both the receipt
and registering of tax returns and tax payments, improved accuracy and timeliness of current accounts
reports, etc. To the extent that these types of consequences have been overlooked in the projections of
the revenue effects of the DOSMIL expansion to each of these sites, the projected cost-effectiveness ratios
will understate the true cost-effectiveness of these site-specific investments.
4.16          The expansion of the SICOFI system for tracking current accounts of smaller taxpayers
via a batch system involves costs estimated at USS 2.72 million. DGI management projects that the
SICOFI expansion will generate an additional U$S 239 million in tax revenues. When these projections
are incorporated in the previously described dynamic model of taxpayer response to the DGI's increased
enforcement efforts under the proposed loan, the SICOFI expansion is found to be an extremely cost-
effective investment. If the USS 239 million projection is attained by project completion (year 3), the
SICOFI expansion will yield a cost-effectiveness ratio of .80 percent by project completion, .31 percent
after another 7 years, and .26 percent over the long run.5 If DGI management's projected revenue gain
is not achieved until year 60, these cost-effectiveness ratios are 1.3 percent, .50 percent and .42 percent,
respectively. These ratios are at or below international norms even for overall tax administration cost-
effectiveness (see above). More to the point, they are well belcw the vast majority of enforcement cost-
effectiveness ratios for the U.K. and U.S. reported in Table 4.3. In short, the SICOFI expansion appears
likely to be extremely cost-effective regardless of what set of reasonable assumptions are employed to
project its consequences.
A A in to prvioUs set of prjceion, the prjcti  masm_ evasion  ducton decay mta of 35% per annum and real
discounti iof 25% per year. Initil year evasion reduetioam  eed to yield currnt values of prjocted annual revenue gains
equal to DGI wpm 'su   projecod reva  gain eiher by the end of year 3 or by the end of year 60.



- 47 -
Annex 4
4.7
Cost-effectivenes of the Large Taxpayer CollecUon System (Larger Sites)
Project.      Costs per Present Value of
generated     Projmet-generated Revenues
Revenue      Assuming Revenue Expectation
Expectation     Attained by Year 3
Depcn-    M.uSa
Office                                     denda                   3 Years   10 Yean   60 Years
14 Non-Buenos Aires Regions
GRANDES ROSARIO                                857           1.683     o.0566     0.0219     0.0184
GRANDES ROSARIO                                870           0.965     0.0987     0.0382     0.0321
GRANDES MENDOZA                                631           0.898    0.1061      0.0410     0.0345
GRANDES CORDOBA N 2                            270         0.801     0.1189      0.0460     0.0387
GRANDES CONT. NACIONALES                         20          0.749  NA          NA          NA
GRANDES TUCUMAN                                 942          0.727     0.1310     0.0507     0.0426
GRANDES CORDOBA N  1                            272          0.703     0.1355     0.0524     0.0441
GRANDES B.BLANCA                                104          0.626    0.1521      0.0589     0.0495
GRANDES LA PLATA                                121         0.516      0.1846     0.0714     0.0601
GRANDES MAR DEL PLATA                           127          0476      0.2001     0.0774     0.0651
GRANDES SANTA FE                               858           0.447    0.2131      0.0824     0.0693
GRANDES RIO CUARTO                             279           0.446     0.2136     0.0827     0.0695
GRANDES PARANA                                  485         0.321      0.2964     0.1147     0.0964
GRANDES RESISTENCIA                            402          0176       0.5403     0.2091     0.1758
6 Dependenclas Intemes Fscales
GRANDES CDORO RIVADAVIA                        431           0.222     0.4293     0.1661     0.1397
GRANDESJUNIN                                   119           0.048     1.9962     0.7725     0.6495
GRANDES MERCEDES                                128          0.033     2.9052     1.1242     0.453
GRANDES CORDOBA                                  27          0.000
GRANDES MAR DEL PLATA                            30          0.000  *
GRANDES MENDOZA                                 31           0.000  .             _
16 Agenclas Capital Federal
AGENCA 9                                          9         18.139     0.0053     0.0020     0.0017
AGENCIA 10                                       10        11.516      0.0083     0.0032     0.0027
AGENCIA 11                                       11          &748      0.0109     0.0042     0.0035
AGENCIA 8                                         8          5.438     0.0175     0.0068     0.0057
AGENCIA 6                                         6          3.489     0.0273     0.0106     0.0089
AGENCIA S                                         5          2388      0.0399     0.0154     0.0130
AGENCIA 3                                         3          2.075     0.0459     0.0178     0.0149
AGENCIA 7                                         7          1.916     0.0497     0.0192     0.0162
AGENCIA 4                                         4          1.584     0.0601     0.0233     0.0196
AGENCIA 1                                         1          1.513     0.0629     0.0244     0.020S
AGENCIA2                                          2          1.395     0.0683     0.0264     0.0222
AGENCIA 16                                       16          1380      0.0690     0.0267     0.0224
AGENCIA 14                                       14          1.076     0.088s     0.0343     0.0288
AGENCIA 13                                       13          1.018     0.0936     0.0362     0.0304
AGENCIA 15                                       15          0.861     0.1106     0.0428     0.0360
AGENCIA 12                                       12          0.412     0.2310     0.0894     0.0752



- 48 -
Annex 4
4.8
Cost-effectiveness of the Large Taxpayer Collection System (Smaller SItes)
Projet        Costa per Preswnt Value of
genemted      Popjctgenermted Revenues
Revenue      Asuming Revenue Expectation
Expectation     Attained by Year 3
Depen-    M.uSs
Office                                    dencia                   3 Yeam    10 Yeam   60 Years
AG. SAN LUIS                                   801          1.990     0.0167      0.0065     0.0054
AO. SAN JUAN                                   771          1.246     0,0267     0.0103      0.0087
AO. POSADAS                                    681          1.106     0.0301     0.0116      0.0098
DTO. VENADO TUERTO                             860          0.671     0.0497     0.0192     0.0162
DTO. CASILDA                                   852          0.612     0.0544     0.0211     0.0177
AG. LA RIOJA                                   602          0.603     0.0552     0.0214     0.0180
AG. SAN FRANCISCO                              280          0.534     0.0623     0.0241      0.0203
AG. RAFAELA                                    855          0.468     0.0711      0.0275     0.0231
Unnamed otdce                                  436          0.463     0.0720     0.0279      0.0234
DTO. VILLA MERCEDES                            802          0.457     0.0729     0.0282      0.0237
DTO. ROQUE SAENZ PEIRA                         401          0.433     0.0768     0.0297     0.0250
DTO. CORRIENTES                                351          0.428     0.0778     0.0301     0.0253
DTO. SAN MARTIN                                632          0.348     0.0956     0.0370     0.0311
AG. NEUQUEN                                    703          0.327     0.1020     0.0395      0.0332
AG. SALTA                                      751           0.3Z4    0.1026      0.0397     0.0334
AG. CATAMARCA                                  251           0.299    0.1112      0.0430     0.0362
DTO. VILLA MARIA                              7282          0.270     0.1231     0.0477     0.0401
DTO. LABOULAYE                                 276          0.265     0.1257     0.0487     0.0409
DTO. CARADA DE OOMEZ                           851          0.248     0.1342     0.0519     0.0436
DTO. TRELEW                                    433          0.241     0.1383     0.0535      0.0450
DTO. SANTA ROSA                                572          0.237     0.1404     0.0543     0.0457
AG. QUILMES                                    100           0.234    0.1421      0.0550     0.0462
DTO. ORAL PICO                                 571          0.232     0.1435     0.0555      0.0467
DTO. BELL VILLE                                271          0.218     0.1531     0.0592      0.0498
AG. ORAL ROCA                                  721          0.217     0.1538     0.0595      0.0500
DTO. PERGAMINO                                 134          0.203     0.1642     0.0636     0.0534
AG. TANDIL                                     140          0.199     0.1677      0.0649     0.0546
AG. LUJAN                                      126          0.194     0.1716      0.0664     0.0S58
DTO. HERNANDO                                  275          0.193     0.1723      0.0667    0.0561
DTO. CORONEL SUAREZ                            111          0.191     0.1745     0.067S      0.0S68
DTO. JUJUY                                     SS1          0.169     0.1970     0.0762     0.0641
DTO. SAN RAFAEL                                633          0.126     0.2647     0.1024     0.0861
DTO. TRES ARROYOS                              142          0.123     0.2712     0.1049      0.0882
D1TO. EL DORADO                                682          0.119     0.2800     0.1084     0.0911
DTO. RECONQUISTA                               856          0.112     0.2964     0.1147      0.0964
DTO. NECOCHEA                                  130          0.110     03029      0.1172      0.0986
DTO. BARILOCHE                                 723          0.106     0.3154     0.1220     0.1026
DTO. SOO. DEL ESTERO                           921          0.098     0.3384     0.1309     0.1101
DTO.LACARLOTA                                   277          0.09S    0.3510     0.1358     0.1142
DTO. VIEDMA                                    722           0.095    0.351S      0.1360    0.1144
D)T0. FORMOSA                                  S31           0.094    0.35S2     0.1374      0.1156
DTO. CONCORDIA                                 482          0.090     03707      0.1434      0.1206
DTO. MARCOS SUAREZ                             278          0.089     0.3732     0.1444     0.1214
DTO. GUALEGUAICHU                              484           0.085     0.3937    0.1523      0.1281
RECEP. SANTO TOME                              982           0.079    0.4194      0.1623     0.1365



- 49 -
Annex 4
4.9
Cost-effectiveness of the Large Taxpayer Collectlon System (Smaller Sites)
Project-      Costs per Present Value of
generated     Project-generated Revenues
Revenue      Assuming Revenue Expectation
Expectation     Att lacd by Year 3
Depen-    M.uS
Office                                     dencia                  3 Year    10 Years  60 Year
DTO. TRENQUE LAUQUEN                           141          0.079     0.4230     0.1637      0.1376
DTO. BRAGADO                                   107          0 072     0.4598     0.1779      0.1496
DPTO. PUERTO DESEADO                           831          0.067     0.5005     0.1937      0.1628
DTO. CURUZU CUATIA                             352          0.066     05051      0.1955     0.1644
DTO. GALVES                                    854          0.066     0.5078      0.1965     0.1652
DTO. BALCARSE                                  105          0.065     0.5096     0.1972      0.1658
DTO. CORONEL PRINGLES                          110          0.064     0.5198     0.2011     0.1691
DTO. LINCOLN                                   123          0.062     0.S369     0.2078     0.1747
DTO. AZUL                                      103          0.059     0.5637     0.2181     0.1834
DTO. CA*UELAS                                  108          0.059     0.5672     0.2195      0.1845
DTO CARHUE                                     109          0.054     0.6188      0.2395     0.2014
RECEP. CONCEPCION                              941          0.053     0.6293     0.2435      0.2047
DTO. RIO GALLEGOS                              832          0.052     0.6367     0.2464      0.2072
DTO. NUEVE DE JULIO                            131          0.051     0.6543     0.2532     0.2129
DTO. CORRAL DE BUSTOS                          273          0.051     0.6571      0.2543     0.2138
DTO. CHMVLCOY                                  114          0.048     0.6886     0.2665     0.2241
DTO. CONCEP. DEL URUGUAY                       481          0.044     0.7614     0.2946      0.2477
RECEP. RIO NEGRO                               9E0          0.043     0.7815     03024       02543
RECEP. CHACABUCO                          |    i2           0.041     0.8104     03136       02637
DTO. CRUZ DEL EJE                              274          0.037     0.9011      03487      0.2932
DTO. GRAL. ALVEAR                              634          0.037     0.9068     03509      0.2951
DTO. SASTRE                                    859          0.035     0.9504      0.3678     03092
DTO. SAN NICOLAS                               138          0.034     0.9704      0.3755    03157
DTO. DOLORES                                   115          0.034     0.9727      0.3764    03165
DTO. GRAL. VILLEGAS                            117          0.032     1.0331     03998       03362
DTO. ZARATE                                    144          0.032      1.0483    0.4057     0.3411
RECEP. CHILECITO                               601          0.032     1.0539     0.4078     0.3429
DTO. 25 DE MAYO                                143          0.031     1.0817     0.4186     03520
!4ECEP. ROJAS                                  136          0.030     1.1159     0.4318     0.3631
DTO. PEHUAJO                                   133          0.028     1.1821     0.4574     03846
DTO. OLAVARRIA                                 132          0.025     13288      0.5142      0.4323
DTO. ESQUEL                                    432          0.021     1.6060     0.6215      0.5225
DTO. ZAPALA                                    702          0.021     1.6185     0.6263      05266
DTO. BOLIVAR                                   106          0.020     1.6419     0.63S4     0.5342
DTO. SAN PEDRO                                 139          0.015     2.1546     0.338      0.7011
DTO. GRAL MADARIAGA                            145          0.011     2.9183     1.1293      0.9495
DTO. VILLA DOLORES                             281          0.011     2.9810     1.1535     u.9699
DTO. CHASCOMUS                                 113          0.010     3.4541      13368      1.1241
DTO. USHUAIA                                   985          0.009     3.6073     13959       1.1737
RECEP. CARMEN DE PATAGONES                     984          0.009     3.7639     1.4565      1.2247
RECEP. AYACUCHO                                147          0.007     4.6263      1.7902     1.5053
DTO. COYA                                      353          0.005     63808      2.4691      2.0761
DTO. LAS FLORES                            j 122,           0.001    293831    11.3701       93S604



- 50 -
Annex 4
4.10
Cost-effectiveness of the Generalized Taxpayer Collection System
All Sites
Projected Revenue Increase Is Attained Within 3 Years:
3 Yean   10 Yean        Long Run (60 Yns)
Total evion reduction                                                              0.0800         0.1215    0.1258
rginal evmion reduction                                                          0.0183         0.0017    0.0000
Nt Present Value of SICOFI Expansion                                               323.60        840.41    999.99
ears nominal evasion reduction revenue                                             239.00        362.90    375.86
roject cost per Prsent Value of revenues                                           0.0080        0.0031    0.0026
Projcted Revenue Increase Is Attained Only In the Long Run
(60 Years):
3 Years   10 Yean       Long Run (60 Yrs)
otal evasion reduction                                                             0.0496        0.0768    0.0800
evasion reduction                                                           0.0116        0.0012    0.0000
et Present Value of SICOFI Expansion                                               198.61        522.72    623.96
ear's nominal evasion reduction revenue                                           148.14         229.49    239.00
roject cost per Present Value of revenus                                           0.0130        0.0050    0.0042
evenue Projection Assumptions: SICOFI
o year goal attainment
1 Total expected revenue growth in 1991 USS million                                                          2987.5
Expected revenue growth attributable to SICOFI                                                            239.000
Initial evaion reduction per base year collections                                                       0.022047
Evasion reduction decay rate                                                                                 0.35
Real Discount Rate                                                                                           025
Project cost (all in year zero) in 1991 USS million                                                          2.62
evenue Projection Assumptions: SICOFI
year goal attainment
Totai expected revenue gVowth in 1991 USS million                                                          2987.5
Expected revenue growth attributable to SICOFI                                                            239.000
Initial evsion reduction per base year collections                                                        0.03597
Evasion reduction decay rate                                                                                 0.35
Reil Diswount Rate                                                                                           0.2S
Project cost (all in year zero) in 1991 USS million                                                          2.62



- 51 -
Annex 5
Key Project Activities and Schedule                                                                                                                            5.1
L e_r_wk                I      CdefM  GeW                           cehAma                                                                    _     kl   T&MiOTU
vobocum-OdculcUlEl.                                       tsduud afo man.RpnIIE                                                             iigTp
L fimpwmvao t the Tax         BevAhiehAw a DCI               Canmiaumed membee              a. Panidpaua et CAmUNWAi          LMlALC*Ordeuae          Mar92. Sep9
AdAiw         Legald           ReC.a Comedube                          Ur" of d   Wants      si Lad CI.leLmba                 Ccaer*a
Franewot                                                     a       L. Evaaia by Co_ _1+                                     C.iebeiaa v
a dw Em and praedee             DOW Led DePe
Rar4w ud dmohu at              Lit temudamd ad dm            N_emberda dW_   or                LEGAL Cratliew          M * OZ t n92
bdag lm                       to                             m     d 1                         Co an ingFi
DOI L"g lDe
d.athg at opeaae LAw          TMAdo" ShaPifMeh               a. Law Appfead or PruWedemal      LEGAL Coainuaa          0.9.Mamr93
and E-ue LeA  MeMd               -                              DOEDh.caOomM
O(tha Law                     IL RSadhea  of  teA rataum        Uadawuaastha of
ad peymew tm 300 to 10            PWA Phu="
2. SWlM-d-ofua Repaahae       IReVleW at DOI-euOWd           Cailmcela at rAgahd.           a. Reduadas oft ohipgadm          LeglCoamdhem            0.92. Mar9
repiatim                                                     bye t oor at 10                   Camikd*g Uh.
Meahadala for delbmatia       a. Reduca tEo ofato                Unduararanyat         0Gm 92- mm 93
rEm                          eataran by eSO per ye            Put  PWlaj  DOI
31 :Aca to ,   ue, mun        Cedan of Le     e              Peme1 a dumb.                  a. Updaw Wu te eauy4ihboue        L_wlCandler             Sep92.  A&S"
MR admanut    Wm and    intot_a Des                                                         I AvdISbdlty ove sM dh            Caneme  FPh
DOI mait eibW top                 DOE Lep Subdfr.
tdea Eum tha 30aaa
Adenbuldaatbee       I      Cdeu A__=Uas                       Pradtafts                     PwArmatoe                    RO.p _aWRnY            T li  TO41l
_    _  _  _   _  _   _  _ _          _  _   _   _  _   _    _   _   _  _   _  _   _  _              Indkm be                 _   _-_        _
L Obtain _w DG  1Sauatar               hadwee Swa,            Mm..ammmore"    P_ma-na  d_ipd may Aqmb  CCawdtw                                        Febn.May9s
mauon wit DOI                 of M DOEI d lM eppAd by           Am  CameAam
eat and mugu me                   CowAng Ph.
Dicpoeeof almidng _ 9 nmme    Co.pvb*nee DAepee  iet         a. Al new tfurAa  rwmde           AdM  C4oardw            JUE 92-Ju 9"
and Paaempeapsee  Iradan                                       AlIsSadmid. oee.1               Ad.i. Coawealtan
P(epa   r iwa eomea           orgamda    MAea                a Odh_        oDd sel new funm    Admam  C4ordinator      Jun 9  Dec 94
aime by tshe Inudshict                C
b Radgiuboo of behman
I_ple.uutda.ewemUu n    W fenwale fme , new                     N   Cdev  We                   DierOwChu               De94 . Mr 9
sautat mawn at                   A_eapd                         Ada C4ordinoar
apeI$se de                    b. Rsdan at IOS at                DOI T_m qDpa
admimotiw aicam
Poete  Iu     aleel
,_            _     _     _    _     _     _     _     _     b dal m i_
2. Imnmed n cyat              Rpden ad t ttmai               S      i oprtio                a. RLdRsctiamat time taken for    Am C4mwr                DecO 2. Du92
admlnemtw p toma             admAeamdneu_aq rmayby                                                                           C4me         Ph.
b. Redugla of dd  tak  far        H.dwesade
aa    po     Wbys                 OGITaln _  DpLe
Dg end Devdap at              New S)eamm in Opardm           a Pedeulaotdme tke far            MAdm Coaciama           0.92- Feb
Odieww        a,Um net                                        aequdl byU Cn Ad as                           a
ldbd in 3OAhd
3 Streb*ngaegat DOE'.         Snp       aftathe Raium        Edonil     orreaae*mmn         a. Raieducio by GM o dttm.A    Coardhnde                  Mar92 .0Oct92
analys and debilan4bakg      Dhmem                                  A     ecuwe     0      tm to ieeall taeueele             Dbar. Ra*mb
to p,adeiniatsineda               Rint   Dka,,ea,,,
a. Ad boo w I   pReWeD
inEm ta 24 b       4a  a
I_dmulea atMD                 _Mdulud EAtemae                0eaee.eWEAd CW med                                        Dae92-3a9
p         e m _               td,edmtarawi ad                   Rin* Obauma
I peaeeae                         .m                      Dbawa-OmuP               Dae9-2Ae"
_ _ _ _                             _      _       _       _0-w-                        -



- 52 -
anux 5
Key Prol st Activites and Schedulo                                                                                                                    5.2
AdA dmW                   Cd" ASAN                         xQ_                                                                              TW
~~~~i_                        0.d Aiig                           odu                        Pwuuas              .       mesbII              lmn   aui
______                                                                                           inmh _4C_
4. Iau.wOf OmWA*Mkm          I.andofbmO                                                                                AdaIn  emk  .Mimdmdmm   oCoordlmmo  kAtm ff a..
apobUU.m.qapuUMU            Md                                                          -  Wm ?A bow, dCo aMdBoolt
bR aedudJom*  ofpod                    tSpode
S StobmsIp adlb. loDOt      IdaMxiomdoold I   mdoan       I*i.y  'Iva  pl-epk          hdq.adeoonpmUto                 AMuleCogxdkont        3.492.0402
CID    Lmr4d                Nol                             1o do r uum                                                Ad_   Cin C mA-
R.auonaiCt Lb.,              LhuY OP.Uh                   [norm"of 33* OIfUr                    T oin_o r       3.492 * 0
rqumtaaftwon.AwofCammb.c
4. Swob..ikinatd i            ummndlmon of emksa          *Wmidiwwb                   tdmiOnd dme.oomd.t               And.Condosorn         IMoO.AW9
bu__.. poi
Ranuumm gof(Traia.Dr  Tn                 4fl             .  umb le ANkdoCmmAW                                  Ap% bDnf9
opwsd-A                I apsUtof" 33*                     "Coobmor
ILAvmihblypt                    T %Dpi.
P~~~~~~~to                                        Ca.im Ph
H.Kadwgftw* moffft
-  -o__n
diobbad to emo andem
Otfofeoawibland              Cow.mad&mes"mw               a.NuMb.r tomossaf.  e 01r.Coocinmeo                   3.. 93. polog
b~~~g oweim   (mmcm ~~~~~~~~b.Saulbfwean  valadon by                       TsfcAmadku.
_______                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~onsifts Ph  _       __
7. Sim*bmfioSftgfl.DCI     0D1Wp  .d' I.pIuidato          SYim hWOPcMion              a. Reducdon of 40* ot Uw        AOC o Mdm -            3.A"492  93
Lepi "Odoml                 .ioma.p.m   dot  iioq , pIqu   Cld                                                         DOI Lopi Dept
r)VAM                                      b.~~~~~~~~~~~h Re&dmio hi 73* of SW  CoWMltg Pk.
-  Amoodetaersml oms by
DOI
Co0.". .pvlnon 100
& bmbmiogot          la~~oodidwdoml .mmaubIb      Foni   ome                    .4    otolfook    god at          Uwbmi              3.4  .SOP9Z
smosmiimuom "m"of           PhcmiTrbmulw                                                                               Prlii.D  DO.
dubkm Tp bun                                                                                                           AbCoo,dimmiw. DOI
Dinip mod WOpMWoAdom ot       ao. iob.ed toakl           a. 064imwptt  and                     Coo4lmoor        Sop92 .3.4d93
.mosmposom ifoumadm took     at PhmlTdhn                  ia. 4 of 100* of ame            Coaibagf
b. hrommi of 7i%of cam          PbhdTdamI
i. Reductonat Sof a0n ome.
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _     hl _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _   I.  le me   Nd oa o   wit      __ __ __ _ __ __ _ _   ___ ___ ___ ___



- 53 -
Annex 5
anex 5: Key Proect ActvWes and Schedule                                                                                                       0,3
Tamw .&Mae                 CU.id plwMma                    Piuduebt                   P.mn                      .PmAsfibIy          liming TOO"W
lupcwimmciSu- Wmu I.       mi      -qmymrbm                Iwvam,   Ph.           &M. U    m vimywuhai          c Co   c.6 mcraw     MW92. pq*
_dSe_ Ts 1  Uwig -                                                                                               Ck"Fies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wwd                                                                      CcammPh.Fh
I _lmmuadcactplmmi          & P_lmc a( t =              Ii03cmqym.pm Cu  _                    Comwr        0.92. MwO
_      _immi                man      _      _ miai  ~m c Ien lbi,tir                   :o F*ngPh
Dk"D*aui dyi mwv             a1 pym m     u amOW Cain ag Ph.-on"
-  -  003  pntmiy mmdP-  
OcO Ow                       hmokdb                       CM" C*W               Jul"-D"ow
amead d p id h mn p~                                 Puliw  at am"                  Comr gmyu
maummwb                                                 awwmmtm
DWmb ci lmpo _wac  u
ciulelaqi 101                                            IU  ecolsalkm U m ymr         CceubCocdkinzc       iiul92.P.19
-. XCraoukm Ph.
IupucAmeuinciacqay        Dwamacm cmprcpmm            IciceumelweLack mbp
mcbdpc DOI culc       kiloimedm                                                a POeiW" ecohalic uatamw,     CcsulICccumulrw       Sad 92.Sep
b. Ro*adaam of ama in          Ads"Coonlimi
prinammca ko(uci lm rti
by 3_  cn ld yW a Lw
leCW     Acdim                       PSiodut                     Pcn an:o                 Rmoorp_bilt          Timg Targe.f
ObOl_                    _                       _Indimtom_                                                 _      _-_
Oe4bmemcl aLrpi           Plnma.(or Rapludc           Da" mimi ( - f *"= Lie       IN megWed ldudmi             CcAeahca C4cedlmmte   Mar92.0.92
sqoyw                                    of "&#c~~~~~~~ciqapum. ens  b. Ehceom* of male of L%*     Head...smpedi
p         Ctmmb l  lnlcl P ecd  Pmw.in 00*lele of                Ccfat k           T    qph.
luOpl_dm          1         qmindb ke
Repiudwa                    L.peTavywCcMmuhmu          L a. Ia0 l*iapy= cnhme          alei ca ocuimIc        m0.
hs cpmkk 3n9               b. lace_ of cledal coUS        Hod'...
spa"                          in kmetn   dn dCcinftPh
00IThlcIDpt.
Comnialuoidae    oc       Plmm"gir  qGwd-             Dld plm  rcudcm            L. 19 peda kaduded             CcballmC4ocecr        Man2.o0n92
ape,.                                                 ciq4mampi.~                 b. Saccalo.oo scimnuof 13*     pwHad..speiKa
dWM WW -                   r4i_iuaoiMo h{dAn d-M US         H    S
spa" e nidOf m d                     cakicoTrac                gCakMg Ph
S,ta.ceraegb 139           d _na                          Had.. Spdemi
saud.~~ ~ ~          bw_ Inu dc TimlaiCamll  h
wv"ya  I(ma Wt                 DOIag  0 Casp-a Opt.
LarpT1qaym)ctAiL6  m           0 faITmleg pt.
Dalpciofa..aldmm            Ucd Of (be maimel          Appkndca of abcpd.             CANPWulceoordhmwtr    0.92 Dm92
IaeintwomurAcdcmd         nwlelguikmiofbuy ad                                                                   Hadaffme ipadh
-          d                                                   m h _ b _ z EA                Cam    g P  - I  ff
d VW  HcumSped
d Nah .m  i   4 mdik
RP _mmd    d                   -amm  b m  *mmik Ra dD SS km uabIw                                                C        C.   e      J9 HSmpp
r-_                            HeaDOI   Speld
S. b.uekdD_bhy             Daipdlpl.mded                     bepne                 a. 8      nbs mp Sa iCdr  Cocdee                     Jd #* J 1 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i upar _r. im~__ 24m                                                      0 d. li
mp _- _z_mdnlupmywo



- 54 -
Annex 5
Annex 5: Key Proect Acftfvits and Schedule                                                                                                               54
t_      b           C|AUa              u                         utI_a    Tartb"
L  d_//   _ d_                               ____i  " h                                                     -___n  x
. lupum    ofaIh-yf          Dopatp                           d                         EmdW MeM"  _   a Aa              M2CAGR%Na              1n92 * AU S9
Cdeaie. of mndogmem          lt  aefradamy                 CafoiiAd istadtmsia             MusWaC;aasdaua         May92 * ct9
,StMa46W..m
b _ai I _A aasmmen           POM_AVOM.M                    Coaadd                          DO _WI Ore  Gomaral    May 92. Pb93
Luawmtuinma oemsdm                                         uuebgwt modii e'.ebM            Lepi Com*saiar
wkis 45hbsaa                    CamssPleu
C at eDusAbsa            letemesia trm  su.md          a AebWkey d iunedw               maCom is,aMdar         Au'.92 Apr93
cmmm "W    in meal.A         mmdmdb for she aimit             Caia*k'. Pb.
flMssai tq .modd            aeyeyar AudideDpL
b. Paloieasssicng.d moIa
o -.1   UV"a md
rldiekdimSii of M6d for
2.IOP,AM"tUhddommai Du.OW t S*yuSym                            .ym"monaaha.o            &L Paoeamrisad o saidimsl        maib2Cormdsor          IL 92. May 93
h. Ru  oamf tayesisw            Tepyw AudftD pt.
by5ft
c Reuction at supetita
apesti by sOS
Rapiada. ot ~sW-             aysto in  sad  i too L0 aI ioneo aui-gobjectsiviy             me5wcoo.sir.mor        May 93 .3Jon94
Portale                      L Increaeof 25V. of ke ratio     Com*lA  Pirm
simm. by auditasgLmemt          Teaq r Audisle Dpi
Theanpeacu, ine am         ame1                            MadCbmwlCcmdse         May92. ias
sadamale                                                      Cdse*m~ nu.
C_d D"_   W_tr_jS                   c ^d   1                         IC4_w                  h * "wAuftm 0



- 55 -
Annex 6
6.1
PROJECT IMIELEMENTATION UNll
6.1          Project Management will be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
which reports directly to the DGI Director General. The PIU will be composed of a number of staff and
consultants (detailed below), and supported by two DGI secretaries.
PIU Personnel
6.2   Project Manager
The Project Manager has overall responsibility for project execution being on time and within
budget, and will:
(a) direct and supervise the executiozof the project according to the work program and
schedule prepared;
(b) coordinate the activities of the staff and consultants responsible for the implementation
of the various project activities;
(c) review all terms of reference, evaluation methodologies, contracts, consultants'
reports, etc. before presenting them to the Bank
(d) prepare and propose any necessary changes to the work program and schedule to the
Bank;
(e) set up and operate the Project Implementation Unit; and
(f) coordinate activities with the Bank;
Performance Indicators: all activities carried out, contracts and acquisitions have been detailed
in the work program and agreed previously with the Bank; all activities detailed in the work
program are carried out on time and within budget.
6.3    Deputy Project Manager
Supports and reports to the Project Manager
Performance Indicator:
Must be able to substitute for the Project Manager in case of absence.
6.4.   Cross-component Activities Coordinator
Several activities are common to the five components of the project: (a) installation of systems
in agencies, which involves office refurbishing and equipment installation; (b) training; (c) quality
assurance (development of performance indicators and acceptance tests); (d) activities which affect
organization and personnel. Each cross-component activity is the responsibility of designated
areas in DGI. The Cross-component activities coordinator wIll:
(a)    Define the requirements and terms of reference for consultants in the four areas.



- 56 -
Annex 6
6.2
(b) Facilitate communications and cooperation between DGI management and the
consultants hired to work in the project.
(c) Ensure homogeneity of methods in each area.
(d) Monitor the production of performance indicators in each area.
(e) Facilitate the transfer of knowledge from consultants to staff and viceversa.
Performance Indicators:
Absence of conflict between DGI staff and consultants working with them. Timely
production of performance indicators.
6.5    Software Project Specialist
A large proportion of the activities planned in this project concern the design, development,
installation, and testing of application software, and the training of its users and maintenance
personnel. The software project specialist will be responsible for:
(a) applying rigorous quality-control criteria to all aspects of the development and
operations process for all software development activities throughout the project;
(b) preparing technical specifications for terms of reference;
(c) preparing acceptance tests, identifying and training DGI personnel responsible for
carrying out the tests, and verifying their adequate completion;
(d) supervising the work of consultants to ensure the high quality of the products;
(e) assure the maintainability of the products by ensuring that DGI staff are properly
trained in the software application and the tools required and that proper maintainability
criteria are followed in the design, development, testing and documentation of the
product;
(f) assure the support of the product by ensuring that DGI personnel are trained in the
use of the software application and that an adequate support mechanism is planned for
and put in place;
(g) assisting component coordinators and staff in matters pertaining to software
development;
Performance Indicators:
(a) technical specifications clear, open and precise: minor revisions only needed at the
bidders' meeting
(b) products fulfill the needs of the users: minimum modifications (less than 10% of
contract price) required after six months of operation, as per survey of users.
(c) users satisfied with maintenance and support given as per user survey;



- 57 -
Annex6
6.3
6.6   SeIor Accounting Clerk
The administration and accounting for the project requires qualified personnel to prepare and
follow-up on all administrative paperwork for contracting, acquisitions, disbursements, etc. The
senior accounting clerk would be responsible for all accounts, records, financial reports and other
activities necessary for project administration, overseeing the work of as well as training the
junior accounting clerk in the same functions. The senior accounting clerk reports to the Deputy
Project Manager.
Performance Indicators:
(a) execution of administrative processes according to schedule;
(b) junior clerk able to substitute for the senior administrative clerk on holidays and
during other absences;
6.7   Junior Accounting Clerk
Supports and reports to the senior accounting clerk.
Performance Indicator:
Must be able to substitute for the senior accounting clerk in case of absence.
Proiect Execution Document
6.8           The project will be implemented on the basis of a document called "Project Execution
Document" prepared by the DGI and initially used for project definition and approval. Onice project
implementation begins, it will be used for project control and as a history log. After project termination,
it will be used for the project evaluation. During implementation, the Project Document will become a
continuously growing file of all facets of the project, constituting a management summary of the entire
project and processes involved. The Project Document should contain at least the following chapters:
- Executive Summary
- Table of Contents
- Background of the Project
- Assignment of Responsibilities (accountabilities, Project Document modification
approval mechanisms, Steering Committe if any).
- Project Detail: For every macroactivity, indicate objectives, activities, results,
measures of quality or acceptance, measurement units, tests and mechanisms of
approval of result, personnel responsible for each test, range of acceptance
(minimum, expected and excellent results), action plans, costs and resources for
each activity.
- Action Plan Summary: Schedule of activities, milestones, deliverables,
acquisitions, contracts, resources, in GANTT charts, Summary Budget and
Accounting Tables, etc.
- Schedule and format of status reports
6.9          A minimum number of reports will be produced by the Project Coordination Unit:
Weely report of Component Coord. to General Coordinator (2 paras)



- 58 -
Annex6
6.4
Monthly report of Comp. Coord. to General Coordinator (2 pages)
Monthly report of Geneval Coordinator to the Director General and the World Bank
Full quarterly report by Approval/Product Test Groups
Full half-yearly report by General Coordinator to the Director
General and the World Bank. This report will include updated project cost
account tables and approved updates to the Project Document.
Full Project Completion Report no later than six months after the
loan closing date.
6.10         To facilitate project supervision, two measures will be undertaken by Bank and Borrower:
to agree on a documentation standard, and to use electronic mail to ensure constant and easy
communication between Borrower and Bank. The documentation standard should follow two rules:
(a) Every sheet in a printed document should be identifiable as belonging to a particular
document, a specific version of that document,and should indicate its relative position within that
document.
(b) Every document prepared by the Bank or the Project wll have a version in hard copy and one
in magnetic medium, in WordPerfect or ASCII format for text, Lotus or Quattro for spreadsheets,
Milestones or Timeline for Gantt Charts. The name of the magnetic file must appear on the
document.



?.1
OVERALL PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
P,j.t                Evidence of Peifanmen                   n                    Frequency        Ded     or            Pefe                  n              Exe
C-t"In                                                                            of               lltW_u                Stand              Re_ponebi    Respon
Obssdv                                                                            Moring            Acceptale                               ky               bty
Perfomanco
Overall llev e        1. Tax revemas by type of tax:'
Genwration           tkey Ind.1                             Ia. 0O01               la. Manthly    Is. 001+3m=             ia. Se SuR        Is. IA            la.REG
la. By aePncy                         lb. 1/92              lb. Monthly      lb. 10/95              lb. 1.SX'         lb. IA            Ib.tEG
lb. Overell
Overall Ol Cost-    1. Labor cost per collections          1. 1192                1. Monthly      1. 12/95               1. ( 1.421        1. IA             1.hEG
effectivenms
2. other operating costs per          2. 1/92               2. Monthly       2. 12/95               2. ' 0.19X        2. IA             2.REG
collections
3. Capital costs per collectIons    3. 1/92                  3. onthly       3. 12/95               3. < 0.2M         3. IA             3.*EG
4. Total costs per collections:
(key ldii
4a. By agency                         4a. 12/92              4e. Monthly     4e. 12/95              4a. See S         4e. IA            4a.REG
4b. By region                         4b. 12/92              4b. Monthl      4b. 1f/9               4b. See SAW       4b. IA            4b.tEG
4c. Overall                           4c. 1/92              4c. IMonthly     4c. 12195              4c.   1.91        4c. IA            4c.tEG
Current Accounts     1. Nutbr of active accounts by
Syst_m Outputs        type of taxpaerr: [key hik
Ia. Large entities                    la. D0I2              la. Monthly      la. 12/95              1a.    30.000     la. IA            1a.PE
lb. Other entitles                    lb. DaI                lb. Monthly     lb. 12/95              lb.   120,000     lb. IA            Ib.CEG
Ic. Per ons                           Ic. 001                Ic. Monthly     Ic. 12/95              Ic. 1.350.000     1c. IA            1c.UEC
2. auery response ttme
2a. DOSNIL                            2a. 0012               2a. MonthLy      2a. 12/95             2a. < 3 mins.     2a. IA            2a.IXF
2b. SICOFI                            2b. DOI                2b. Monthly     2b. 12/95              2b. < 1 w.d.      2b. IA            2b.IMF
Current Accounts     1. Total current accounts system    1. DOI                   1. onthly        1. 10/95               1. Decreae        1. IA             l.COm
5ystem Cost-         costs per active current account                                                                   ItA
tffectivenss
Infor_mtfon          1. gusber of accesses to each
System Us ae          information systems records:
la. Current Accounts System           la.DO1,                la. Monthly     la. 10/95              1a.increase       Ia. IA            la. AG
lb. HIS                               ib.O01*3mos            lb. Monthly     lb. 10/95              TSA               lb. IA            lb. AG
lc. AUPIUT                            lc.fo013.os           lc. Monthly      Ic. 10/95              Ib.Increase       Ic. IA            Ic. AG
TSA
l.Increase
1



A71
7.2
PIMI*min Of P bmB                                                         -m-                                                                   Ex---__
_      tPOM                                               _kd                                                 f* _  1dr        R      _PIN     Req_nW
OWeaske                                                ~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Mwnkdtod  Acceptah      ky               a
_*                                                            __    hA s    j _q
Inforetlon          1. Each informtion spt_ms
systm Coet-        total costs per atu  acess:
tffect!_a
la. Curr nt accounts sptem        1a.9012              la. Ibnthly    1e. 2/92             la.Decrease      la. IA          la.CI
lb. hIS                           lb.DO.3mo           lb. Ibnthly    lb.0I0+4.s          TUA              lb. IA           lb.CCU
lc. 1DIIIT                        le.DOI3+3s           Ic. mInthly    lc.D014mos           1b.Decrease      lc. IA          lCGU
TEA
_c.Decrease
Tulpae Serices   1. Coliance cest per prototype    1. 1292                 1. hAnt         1. 12/95            1. Decreae       1. IA           1. OR
tax return iyhadl                                                                         TEA
2. Tapyers' asssmnt of DGI    2. 6/92                  2. Arbl        2. 6/95                               2. IA           2. ot
orfao                                                                                      2.1prove TUA
Legl Frmuark        1. Iuh_ of acceses to legl        1. 6/93              1. monthly      1. 12/93            1. fin > 3000    1. IA           1. LEG
dat bas                                                                                      Eigp  464500
2. Upd  telag                     2. 6193              2. Nbnthly      2. 12/93            2. MIn '3d       2. A            2. LEC
J'        Exp -c lud
3. mIer of retima  paymmnts                                                                  Opt a
ai forms ruired for prototpa                                                                d
IVA tapayer per yer:
3a. ren                           3a. 1/92             3a. hAust      3a. 12/94                             3a. IA          3.LEG
3b pamnts                         3b. 1/92             3b. Aimjl       3b. 12/94           3a.Decre_se      3b. IA          3bA.E
3c. for                           3c. 1/92             3c. Afml        3c. 12/94          TIA               3c. IA          3c.LEG
3b.Decre
4. Iuhr of retu ., p nts                                                                   TEA
ard form repired for prototvpe                                                             3c.0ecrewse
Income taxpyer per year:                                                                  TEA
4a. returm                        40. 1/92             4a. Anrual      4a. 12/94                            4&. IA          4a.LEG
4b. payments                      4b. 1/92             4b. Anuitl    4b. 12/94                              4b. IA          4b.LEC
4c. form                          4c. 1192             4c. Amual       4c. 12/94                            4c. IA          4c.LEG
4a.Dacrease
TEA
4b.Decrease
TEA
4c.2ftresse
2



7.3
Pu*et             I Ewidmace of P_o,mme                Ieh                    F                                    _______  __n   f_  ____r_
O"~_                          __                                       jMi_O~             A.epaM             I                lIl                El
.orAo                 .                              ___._ .._.__ _.t. _______
*uditfui             1. bler of crpeted audits per   1. 1/92                   1. Nnthly       1. 6/94              1. Increae        1. IA            1.REG
actlwe registered tapar  --                                                                    TEA
total mid by tax, adit type,
category of ud3tor, ad mdit
taogt categwy
2. Diferaicis daterainadas --
total aNd by tu, audit type,
catWory of auditor, mrd audit
target categor :
2a. Total                           2s. 1/92              2a. Nanthly     2a. 6/94                              2. IA            2.ItEC
2b. Varlnc                          2b. 1/92              2b. Nanthly     2b. 6/94             ZA Increase       2b. IA           2b.EG
TMA
3. Dlfereneis conformadss --                                                                   2b.Dacremse
total m*d by tax. audit type.                                                                  TMA
cat egry of auditor, rnd audit      3   1/92              3a. Nonthir     3b. 6/94                               3a.IU            3s.EC
target category:                    3b. 1/92              3b.  anthiy     3c. 6/94                               3b.UA            3b.REG
3 . Total
3b. Variance                                                                                   TM A 
4. AcUitiml taxes collected --                                                                 3b.Tscrease
total *nd by tax, audit type. T,
category of *uditor, *nd midit
target category within specified
period after completion of          4a  1/92              4b. Nnthly      4b. 6/94                               4a.IA            4b.tEC
malit:'1                            4b. 1/92              4b. Monthly    4b. 6/94                                4ILIA            OJ.EC
4a. Total                           5. 1/92               5. Nonthly      5. 6I94                                S. IA            5.R6
4b. Varianc                                                                                    4a.Increase
S. Fraction of audits ppealed                                                                  4b.Decrease
within one year of coapletion of                                                               TMA
audit -- total id* by tax. audit
type, category of auditor, ad                                                                  5.1ecres  TE
4adit terget category             j
3



7.4
P.*1                 Evidemne of Pufwmance               3.gFqe                                 Dedln for            Pw  nefTence      monlloubg         Execution
COMTIKNM                                                 monkaft        4       n       xio .  .... ef b iVnwn       Stmndods          RbuERb S          Rp
CHy>zi                                                                          Mohkoteh        Aoeptanbls                              tY               Ety
Audit Cost-          1. Total audit costs -- overatl t
effectiveness         nd by tax. *dit type, category
of auditor,  nd audit target
category -- per: Ikey hId)
Is. Copleted audit                  la. 1/92               Is. Monthly    l. 6/94              laeDecrease        ls. IA           ls. IA S REC
(I)  Total                                                                                     TEA
(iM) variance                                                                                                                      lb. IA & REG
lb. Difterencia deteruinada         lb. 1/92               lb.  onthly     lb. 6/94                               lb. IA
Ci)  Total                                                                                      lb.Decrease                        lc. I[A   REC
(ti) Variance                                                                                  TBA
Ic. Diferencis cmnforeada           IC. 1/92               lc. Nonthly    lc. 6/94                                Ic. IA           Id. IA & REG
(i) Total
tii) Variance                                                                                   lc.Decrease
Id. Additionmt collected taxes      Id. 1/92               Id.  onthly     Id. 694              TEA               Id. IA
within specified time period from
completlon of audit
Cl)  Total                                                                                      Id.Decreas
(Ii) variance                                                                                   TEA                                                 r
Taxes to be tracked are: lepuestes Coperticipedos (IVA, Cancias, Capitales y Activos, Internos Wnificados, Debitos 9lncarlos, Patrmino Nato, Fondo hcional Autopistas,
otros). Iapuestoe Mo Coperticipados (Sellos, Otros), Iepuesto a los Coxbustibles y otros Afectacion Especifics, Leyes Especiates (Pars Seguridad Social, Par& Desequilibrios
F scales de las Provincias, lecaudacion pare Terceros, Cont. Solidaris Ley 23740), y Otros (place within above categories when possible -- Transferencma de Divisas, Sobr
Interese y Aju te, Pltazo Fijo, Otros), nd Total.
Segin monitoring as of 1/97 In those agences In which the system is already operational. Otherwise, begin monitoring as of DOI.
3 Se SAU for agency-specific projections.
4 Total collections standard Is cumulative 12-month increase over base period ending in smce month of 1991 expressed as percentage of that base period revenue. The 1.51
standard requires total tax revenue increase of 1.5X between 1991 and 1992.
aType of audit categories are: interna, externa preventiva, externa ordinaria (profurd4). Types of taxes to be tracked are: IVA y ofines, Ganancias, others. Audit targeting
categories are to be annually redefined by DGI audit department on the basis of an analysis of the previous year's performance indicator magnitudes. lhe existing "conceptos-
by mAich audit protocols are defined should be used initially.  Auditor categories should sort auditors according to their skill levels (e.g., training and previous
experience) so as to honogenize the categories for which performance indicators are generated.
a verage elapsed tim between enactment of any new tax laus, decres or resolutions nd their inctusion in the legislative data base.
Wl1   a Date of spltmmntatIon.            mos a months
IA    a Internal Audit department         REG a Regional offices
AG      Agencies                          IMF a Informatica
CON   = Contabilidad                      DR = Director of Research
LEG   * Legal department
TEA = Performance standard to be determined after first year's experience.
wd    a Working Day
Ihky rW] a key performance Indicator.
4



