Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19535
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND TAX ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
(LOAN. 3460-AR)
June 25, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
Arg. $1 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFIP                      Federal Public Revenue Administration (successor to DGI)
AUDINT                    Automated administrative system
BNA                       Government's Commercial Bank
DGI                       General Tax Directorate (replaced by AFIP)
DOSMIL                    Automated collection system for large taxpayers
DOSMIL REMOTO             Extension of DOSMIL to encompass large taxpayers
residing far from DGI offices
ECLAC                     UN Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
ICR                       Implementation Completion Report
IDB                       Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
METFIS                    Planned system for improved credit procedures
PSRL                      Public Sector Reform Loan
PSRTAL                    Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
SICOFI                    Automated collection system for small and medium-sized
taxpayers
UTE                       DGI's new telecommunications network
VAT                       Value Added tax
WAN                       Wide Area Network
LAN                       Local Area Network
PC                        Personal Computer
|     Vice President:        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:       Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Director:       Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader:        Luis-Jose Mejia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Argentina
Second Tax Administration Project (Loan 3460-AR)
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...................................................                                                ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Introduction  ....................................................                                                 1
B. Project Objectives ....................................................3
C. Implementation Experience ....................................................3
D. Results ...................................................4
E.  Project Sustainability and Future Operations ....................................................7
F.  Bank Performance ...................................................7
G. Borrower Performance ...................................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ...................................................8
I.   Lessons ...................................................9
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ...................................................                                    12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...................................................                               14
Table 3: Project Timetable ...................................................                                        15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......................................... 16
Table 5: Matrix of Project Activities ................................................... 17
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................                             23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ................................................... 24
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing ...................................................                             25
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... 26
Appendix
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
C. Sales and VAT Tax Collections as Percentages of GDP (1935-97)
D. Collections from Social Security and Customs Taxes as percentages of GDP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Argentina
Second Tax Administration Project (Loan 3460-AR)
Implementation Completion Report
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Tax
Administration Project in Argentina, for which Loan 3460-AR in the amount of US$20
million equivalent was approved on April 14, 1992, and became effective on February
11, 1993. Final disbursement took place on February 12, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by H. J. Nissenbaum, under the supervision of Luis-Jose
Mejia, Task Manager (LCSPR), with the assistance of Messrs./Mmes Leichtle, Rojas and
Schuitz (consultants experienced with the Chilean tax agency), and reviewed by Luca
Barbone (AFTM3).
The ICR is based on information in the project files and discussions with officers
and staff of the Federal Public Revenue Administration. The Borrower contributed its
own evaluation of the project's experience and provided background material and
support.



- ii -
Argentina
Second Tax Administration Project (Loan 3460-AR)
Implementation Completion Report
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    By the end of the 1980s, Argentines had virtually stopped paying taxes. The
General Tax Directorate (DGI) had lost its capacity to administer the tax system
effectively, which numerous assessments identified as among the major reasons for
serious Government revenue shortfalls. One Bank study found that there had been an
about 75% reduction in revenue variations that could not be explained by changes in the
potential tax base owing to fluctuations in the economic environment, tax rates or in the
"Olivera-Tanzi" effect during 1987-89.
2.    To remedy the situation, the authorities first resorted to charges on exports, bank
checks, energy sales, etc. for readily accessible revenues. Unfortunately, these generated
system distortions and their yields fell when taxpayers found ways to avoid these charges.
Simultaneously, tax rolls were not updated, collected revenue per audit fell from $126 to
$34 in 1986-89 and less than 16 percent of DGI's audit conclusions were being collected.
3.    The authorities therefore took more basic measures. They broadened the VAT
base at a uniform rate, instituted a gross asset tax as a minimum income tax, redefined
inflationary adjustments to partly eliminate the "Olivera-Tanzi effect", and trimmed
industrial tax breaks. The relatively loose evasion penalties were tightened, existing
sanctions were reactivated and new enforcement powers were obtained. DGI was
authorized to close temporarily businesses involved in VAT violations without having
first to obtain court approval. Closures rose from zero in 1989 to 32,000 in 1992, which
figured in VAT collections' rise to 6 percent of GDP by 1991. Prominent citizens were
indicted on evasion charges; tax inspectors found corrupt were dismissed; and industrial
promotion beneficiaries were audited.
4.   In parallel the Government chartered the First Tax Administration Project (Ln.
3015) which helped to rapidly increase revenues. A major factor was the development of
a computerized large taxpayer current account system ("DOSMIL"), which substantially
reduced collection and return verification, errors in returns, and late submissions and
payments. The Project also succeeded in increasing the accuracy and reliability of
information for auditing taxpayers. It helped DGI expand its audit staff by almost 300
percent and multiply audits fivefold in 1989-92.
5.    The Government decided it also needed to improve DGI. IMF and other experts
had long judged it to be too bureaucratic, with unduly rigid procedures and tax forms, and
lacking proper planning and coordination. Its staff's tasks were ill defined and their roles



- 111 -
confusing. Competent professionals were difficult to attract and retain, their morale was
low, and they usually held second jobs to augment low wages. In addition, DGI's
management was often unable to plan or carry out reforms adequately, partly because of
union restrictions. And a review of DGI's first 54 years showed that over half of its
Director Generals stayed for less than one year, and 93 percent less than three years. The
authorities accordingly recognized the need for a broad gauged strategy for improving
DGI's overall structure, operations and management. They launched a comprehensive
reform program and requested Bank aid for segments of it, including the extension and
deepening of some of the First Project's initiatives.
6.    The Second Tax Administration Project's objectives were to increase tax revenues
without increasing rates, ensure the continuity and sustainability of these increases, and
facilitate voluntary compliance. It provided support to: (a) review and codify tax laws
and rules in order to simplify existing legislation and make it more coherent, develop a
legislative data base, and train DGI legal staff; (b) expand the automated accounting and
administrative systems recently developed to all DGI agencies, acquire microcomputers
and train staff in their use; (c) install "DOSMIL" in all DGI agencies; (d) gather data
related to collections, develop methodologies and tools for fraud detection, and train
auditors; and (e) survey taxpayers and train staff in improving their services.
B. Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Project implementation began so well that the Government increased its financing
for the operation and expanded its activities in the first year. But beginning soon
afterwards, three new Director Generals were successively appointed along with
numerous project component coordinators. The ensuing instability was later complicated
by delays stemming mainly from DGI's inheriting the responsibility for social security
contributions and later customs duties in its evolution into the Federal Public Revenue
Administration (AFIP). The 1994-95 "Tequila crisis" also was disruptive. These arrested
much of project progress in midstream and there was no attempt for almost a year to
continue, followed by some unsuccessful efforts to re-invigorate the Project. Further,
AFIP decided in 1997 to begin a new, larger tax administration project with IDB support.
This tended to relegate the Bank's operation to a lesser --though still useful-- role.
8.    The Project substantially contributed to Argentina's improved fiscal performance,
particularly during the first part of the project period. A 1998 Bank report associated the
2.8% of GDP increase in current revenues in 1990-94 with better tax collection
capabilities, complemented by less inflation and renewed growth. Bank figures indicated
that tax revenues rose on average from some 11.4 percent of GDP in 1988-90 to 16.5
percent in 1990-96. In this connection, the "DOSMIL" system which the Project helped
institutionalize established solid on-line control of each regional DGI agency's largest
2,000 taxpayers throughout the network. "DOSMIL" related VAT payments multiplied
tenfold during the project period from 2.7 million pesos in 1991 (16 percent of total
collections) to 27.2 million in 1997 (72 percent of the total). Related social security
receipts rose from 7.9 million pesos in 1993 to 13.2 million in 1997. These gains,



- iv -
incidentally, sparked initiatives at provincial and municipal levels to emulate "DOSMIL",
which the Bank also supported.
9.    The Project also enabled DGI to better incorporate small and medium taxpayers
through a simpler control and payment system. This added almost 300,000 taxpayers to
the rolls through 1995, when it was replaced by a comparable system linked to more
advanced telecommunications facilities ("UTE"). Meanwhile, a "DOSMIL" subsidiary
expanded the collection network to encompass taxpayers residing far from DGI offices.
The system's high costs led to its closure in 1997 when "UTE" assumed its functions.
Another activity helped create the telecommunications network which linked 127 DGI
and 57 BNA branches on "DOSMIL" activities and provided timely information on tax
obligations and receipts throughout the tax agency.
10.   The accounting and budgeting system's manual processing was replaced in 1993
by a computerized operation, and assistance in DGI's treasury area improved its
direction. These have strengthened controls and management. But the improvements
largely reflected relatively rudimentary upgrading, and the accounting and budgeting
system still fails to provide program, product and management cost data units.
11.   Similarly, DGI's ability to select suitable audit cases improved through the
development of cross-checking information models and consolidation of other agencies'
data. These and 43 sector studies helped build a useful database. DGI also adapted a
Project-aided information system for improving auditing procedures but some elements
of these changes were stopped for failure of the consultants' work to be properly
integrated with line operations. Thus, the application of these advances for the desired
better audit performance and its management control is incomplete. DGI's auditing
operations' planning and execution, methods and uses of information systems appear to
be improving only slowly.
12.  In the legal framework component, experts completed a systematic compilation
of the disorganized body of laws and regulations, which was to provide the foundation
for an electronic database. The latter was actually installed but has never been used; nor
the planned related training executed due to staff-consultant disputes. The activity has
since been transferred to the Justice Ministry. There was greater success in the effort to
install a computerized legal administration and files management system in all units
concerned with contentious bad debt cases. These helped install centralized registration
and control over all judgments, cut processing time and increase judgments paid.
13.   A  significant shortfall occurred in the case of the planned institutional
restructuring. Initially, this was delayed to await the organizational and personnel
changes related to the new union work agreement being concluded at the Project's
beginning. Subsequently, the several changes in the incumbents of the Director General's
post and their differing interests in pursuing this objective obstructed its undertaking.
The Project did help transform DGI though into a much more decentralized institution.



-v
14.   Not all the actions planned to encourage greater voluntary taxpayer compliance
through stimulation of positive cultural changes were implemented either. However, the
Project helped lessen compliance costs for taxpayers.  "DOSMIL" permitted the
substitution of magnetic media for tax returns for the previous complicated paper
presentations. Over 96% of declarations now come in via the software DGI distributes.
Conversely though, "DOSMIL" contributed to tightening taxpayers' fulfillment of their
obligations by publicizing DGI's expanded knowledge base, and a new billing system is
helping deter documentation falsification. Taxpayer ranks almost tripled from 1991 to
1997, helping improve Argentina's poor record in curbing taxpayer evasion. IMF
estimates indicate that VAT compliance levels increased from 33.9% in 1989 to 64.4% in
1992---but that it also declined in 1993-94. AFIP itself estimates that the evasion rate
declined to 42 percent in 1995 and 37 percent in 1997. These suggest commendable
progress but there remains scope for betterment, in part depending on AFIP's ability to
gain fuller legal authority to pursue tax delinquencies.
15.   The sustainability of the Project's achievements is rated "Likely". "DOSMIL"
and the many other new, now proven changes are in place and AFIP's commitment to
maintaining them shows promising signs of durability. In addition, the follow-on project
launched in 1997 should help expand several of the activities supported by Loan 3460. It
calls for further advancing the legal framework governing tax administration and
strengthening AFIP's legal procedures on collections and audits; simplifying and
monitoring taxpayer compliance; augmenting information technology services; bolstering
organizational development and personnel management; and improving audit activities.
However, the long-term sustainability of the Project will depend fundamentally on
AFIP's effecting and maintaining the changes needed to achieve a more adequate
institutional base. The problem is complicated by AFIP's challenges of fully integrating
the management of income and related taxes, social security contributions and customs
obligations.
16.   The Project's future operations require the further strengthening of the
organization in several key areas so as to achieve better overall performance. They also
hinge on the fate of the aforementioned follow-on activity. Its plans fortunately appear to
comprise appropriate arrangements for continuation of several important project
components. These include provisions for timely inputs and the systematic evaluation of
project results based on comprehensive performance indicators.
C. Bank and Borrower Performance
17.   Bank performance was "Satisfactory". Project preparation was very detailed with
activity and performance measures set out for every component. Project documentation
was exemplary in its inclusion of definitions of new functions, procedures and systems in
all major DGI areas. AFIP staff commended the Project for seeing through and
effectively supporting the intended changes. The institution's officers expressed special
appreciation for the relatively high order of planning and project execution, which they
credited to the Bank's participation. Moreover, they praised the Bank's work as creating
a solid basis for the further reforms they are pursuing.



- vi -
18.   However, the Bank demonstrated relatively little capacity to alter the
progressively deteriorating record of project execution. To be sure, the small amount of
the Loan (US$20m) relative to the task, DGI's size and scale of activity reduced the
Bank's scope for influence, as did the launching of the follow-on project. In addition, it
would have been virtually impossible to safeguard the operation against the political
instability and changes in leadership that hurt it. Under these circumstances, the Bank
should have sought to bring the Project to an earlier than scheduled conclusion.
19.   The Government undertook the reform program with a firm strategy, competent
and motivated managers, pronounced improvements in the enabling environment, and
provisions for suitable assistance, abetted for some time with considerable top level
backing. DGI constructively engaged its line officers in project operations and its central
coordinating unit's work was commendable. However, the heavy turnover in the
agency's management, the progressive loss of interest in the operation by the later
.Director Generals and the neglect of some key reform areas were injurious. And more
should have been done to expand DGI's readiness for substantial change, as evidenced by
some units' resistance to several Project targets. Firmer managerial action was needed to
solve these problems.
D. Assessment of Outcome
20.   The outcome measured against the conditions of the Project's formulation and its
defined goals presents a positive picture. To be sure, significant policy goals, especially
concerning DGI's institutional development and to a lesser degree, the legal framework
were set aside in favor of priorities on technical changes. Thus the latter directed
organizational reforms instead of the more preferable opposite approach. Plans to engage
project-affected groups in participatory activity were also de-emphasized. And Borrower
interest in and ownership of all the elements of the Project waned throughout most of its
implementation.
21.   However, the major project objectives were more than adequately fulfilled,
especially as it directly served to strengthen tax revenue collections and reduce tax
evasion. The 1997 income tax returns attained the highest percentages of GDP in the
previous 35 years. Sales tax VAT collections in 1992-97 exceeded 6% of GDP, the
highest in 1935-97. And the 1994-97 social security contributions approximated the
peaks reached for these payments over the same 1935-97 period, which occurred 40 years
previously.
22.   In the process too, tax collection has become more efficient and effective. Unit
administrative costs fell by about a fourth from 1991 to 1993-97 while returns on each
peso spent on administration increased 16 percent. Also, the Project helped DGI become
a more modernizing, change-oriented institution.  Many inefficient, unproductive
practices were shed and some relatively sophisticated ones implanted. Tax collection and
other information systems, communications infrastructure, management controls
particularly are now quite advanced in certain respects. Thus taking into account also the



- vii -
importance of the Project's accomplishments for Argentina's strong economic
performance during the 1990s, the Project is considered to have responded adequately to
its challenge and achieved satisfactory development results.
E. Lessons
23.   The project experience illustrates the potential benefits of the Bank's new
adaptable lending instruments. In undertaking the requirement in this case for achieving
substantial institutional reform, it would have been far better to have employed an APL -
type approach (had this been available then). This might have produced superior results
in maintaining strong high level Borrower commitment, affording possibilities of
providing greater Bank funding, and coping with the changing economic/political tides
over an extended period.
24.   Another lesson has been drawn from DGI's historic experience. The Argentine
authorities have underscored the importance of safeguarding tax bureaus to the extent
possible from disruptive political forces because of their importance for fiscal governance
and efficient state operations. The officials sought to inject greater stability in the
management of the tax program by guaranteeing its chief administrator a multi-year term
of office and strengthening the institution's political independence.



1
Argentina
Second Tax Administration Project (Loan 3460-AR)
Implementation Completion Report
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
1.    The magnitude of Argentina's fiscal adjustment during the 1990s has been a key
factor in its relatively strong economic perfornance. This constituted a major change
from the previous decade when large deficits of the central government and non-financial
public sector fueled extreme inflation and external imbalances.
2.    The previous fiscal disequilibrium was partly owing to erosion of Argentina's
revenue mobilization capacity. There had long been a relatively large gap between the
taxes which should have been paid and actual collections, which a recent IMF report
estimated at 20-40 percent. The ratio of tax receipts to GDP was only 12.7-18.7 percent
in the 1980s. Granted, real economic growth then was only 0.78 percent with inflation
volatility of over 1 percent. There were also numerous fiscal exemptions and incentives,
and almost biannual tax amnesties. But these factors alone did not adequately explain the
persistently poor tax revenues.
3.    By the end of the 1980s, Argentines virtually stopped paying taxes. The General
Tax Directorate (DGI) had lost its capacity to administer the tax system effectively,
which an IBRD 1991-92 macroeconomic assessment concluded was among the major
reasons for the revenue shortfalls. The Bank's subsequent "Effects of Tax Reform on
Argentina's Revenues" study found that there had been an about 75% reduction in "tax
effort" (i.e., revenue variations that could not be explained by changes in the potential tax
base owing to fluctuations in the economic environment, tax rates or in the "Olivera-
Tanzi" effect) during 1987-89. The study attributed the subsequent improvement in this
"effort" to better tax administration and taxpayer compliance.
4.    To remedy the poor situation in the late '80s, the authorities first resorted to
charges on exports, bank checks, energy sales, etc. for readily accessible revenues.
Unfortunately, these generated system distortions and their yields fell when taxpayers
found ways to avoid them. Then as well, DGI inspectors were reported to be regularly
working on the side to help large taxpayers with their bills. Tax rolls were not updated;
some actually vanished. And collected revenue per audit fell from $126 to $34 in 1986-
89 while less than 16 percent of DGI's audit conclusions netted revenues.
5.    The authorities therefore took more basic measures. They broadened the VAT
base at a uniform rate, instituted a gross asset tax as a minimum income tax, redefined
inflationary adjustments to partly eliminate the "Olivera-Tanzi effect", and trimmed
industrial tax breaks. They tightened the relatively loose evasion penalties, reactivated



2
existing sanctions and gained new enforcement powers. In the process, they clarified the
murky legal framework that had made claims on taxpayers hard to prosecute. DGI was
authorized to close VAT-violating businesses without having first to obtain court
approval. Closures rose from zero in 1989 to 32,000 in 1992, which figured in VAT
collections' rise to 6 percent of GDP by 1991 (on a par with Chile). Prominent citizens
were indicted on evasion charges; tax inspectors found corrupt dismissed; industrial
promotion beneficiaries audited and VAT taxpayers enumerated.
6.   In parallel with these efforts, the Government first enlisted the help of the Bank in
this sector in 1986 under the Public Sector Management TA Project (Ln. 2712). It
mainly produced a unified taxpayer number. In 1989, the authorities chartered the First
Tax Administration Project (Ln. 3015), aimed mostly at rapidly increasing revenues by
improving DGI's efficiency. In the event, better tax administration and legislation did
contribute significantly to revenue growth. A major factor was the development of a
computerized large taxpayer current account system ("DOSMIL"), which was installed in
DGI's 37 largest branches. This substantially reduced collection and return verification,
errors in returns, and late submissions and payments. It was quite novel since, as late as
1990, DGI had no system for controlling even the largest taxpayers, who provided the
bulk of revenues. The First Project also succeeded in increasing the accuracy and
reliability of information for auditing taxpayers. It helped DGI expand its personnel
working on auditing by almost 300 percent and multiply monthly audits fivefold in 1989-
92. In addition, it introduced automated control systems in budgeting, legal and human
resource areas. Subsequently, the Public Sector Reform Project (Ln. 3394) helped
enhance the policy framework for revenue mobilization with emphases on rebuilding the
tax rolls, further auditing upgrading and modernizing legal procedures.
7.    The Government decided it also needed to improve DGI. IMF and other experts
had long judged it to be too bureaucratic, with unduly rigid procedures and tax forms, and
lacking proper planning and coordination. Its staff's tasks were ill defined and roles
confusing. Competent professionals were difficult to attract and retain and their morale
was low. DGI's management was often unable to plan or carry out reforms adequately,
partly because of union restrictions. And a review of the organization's first 54 years
showed that over half of its Director Generals stayed for less than one year, and 93
percent less than three years. A Fund report said that they only focused on short-term
matters, often made inappropriate resource allocations, and were inattentive to
management and systems development and taxpayer incentives.
8.    The authorities thus recognized the need for a broad gauged strategy for
improving DGI's overall structure, operations and management. They also appreciated
that the First Project's advances had to be extended and deepened.  Buoyed by the
reform spirit of its 1991 reorganization, DGI launched a comprehensive improvement
program and requested Bank aid for segments of it.



3
B. Project Objectives:
9.    The Second Tax Administration Project addressed four major causes of the
inefficiency of the system:  the inadequate legal framework;  weak, excessively
centralized administration; poor service to the public; and inferior collection and taxpayer
auditing. Its objectives were to: (a) increase tax revenues without increasing tax rates; (b)
ensure the continuity and sustainability of these increases; and (c) facilitate voluntary
compliance through increasing popular perception of fairness and equitable distribution
of the tax burden. The Project financed services, equipment and other support to:
* review and codify tax laws and rules in order to simplify and make more coherent
existing legislation, develop a legislative data base, and train DGI legal staff;
* expand automated accounting and administrative systems developed in the First
Project to all DGI agencies, acquire microcomputers and train staff in their use;
* install "DOSMIL" in all DGI agencies;
* collect data related to collections, develop methodologies and automated tools for
fraud detection, and train auditors in their use; and
- carry out taxpayer surveys and train staff in improving their services.
C. Implementation Experience
10.   Project implementation began and was sustained well at first. This led the
Government to increase its fumding for the operation and to expand its activities in the
first year. It also then appeared that the operation would be successfully completed far
ahead of schedule. But beginning early on, three new Director Generals were
successively appointed along with numerous project component coordinators after
several political changes. The ensuing managerial instability was exacerbated by delays
stemming mainly from DGI's absorption of the responsibilities for social security system
contributions and later customs duties in its evolution into the Federal Public Revenue
Administration (AFIP) in 1996. In addition, the 1994-95 "Tequila Crisis" caused DGI'to
focus almost exclusively on raising tax revenues, with other activities slipping to
secondary attention. These factors arrested much of project progress in midstream, and
there was no attempt for almost a year to continue the reforms. There were some efforts
later to re-invigorate activity but these were aborted. Further, AFIP decided in 1997 to
launch a new activity to strengthen tax administration, for which the IDB approved a
US$96 million loan. This tended to relegate the Bank's project to a somewhat secondary
-- although still useful -- role.
11.   Fortunately, the delays and other events did not affect "DOSMIL" and other
collection-related activities much. There were also some compensating factors. A few of
the unfulfilled Project goals were offset by some unplanned accomplishments. Some of
these were elements of the comprehensive reform program that DGI originally planned to
implement entirely on its own, but for which they eventually obtained Loan support (to
good ends). In addition, global information and telecommunications advances opened



4
investment opportunities in administrative areas, for which Bank assistance proved
valuable.
D. Results (Ref. Table 5)
12.   The Bank's 1998 "Fiscal Dimensions of the Convertibility Plan" report associated
the 2.8% of GDP increase in current revenues in 1990-94 with better tax collection
capabilities, complemented by less inflation and renewed growth. Bank figures indicated
that tax revenues rose on average from some 11.4 percent of GDP in 1988-90 to 16.5
percent in 1990-96. VAT collections grew fastest, approaching 6% of GDP, more than
twice the average of the '80s. AFIP calculates that income tax revenues rose from 9.23 %
of GDP in 1991 to 11.7 % in 1997 while social security receipts increased from 3.5 % of
GDP to 5.4 % in 1992/97.
13.   The Project helped institutionalize the "DOSMIL" system, which established
solid on-line control of each regional DGI agency's largest taxpayers throughout the
network (now 141 units). As of 1997, it encompassed 238,000 taxpayers, reportedly
expanded later to 242,356, through the system's replication, and now constitutes the heart
of tax collections. "DOSMIL"-related VAT payments multiplied tenfold during the
project period, increasing from 2.7 million pesos in 1991 (16 percent of total collections)
to 27.2 million in 1997 (72 percent of the total). Related social security receipts linked to
it rose from 7.9 million pesos in 1993 to 13.2 million in 1997.
14.   The Project also enabled DGI to better incorporate small and medium taxpayers
through a simpler control and payment system (SICOFI), installed in 63 important
branches. SICOFI added almost 300,000 taxpayers to the rolls through 1995, when it was
replaced by a comparable system linked to more advanced telecommunications facilities
("UTE"). Meanwhile, a "DOSMIL" subsidiary expanded the collection network to
encompass taxpayers residing far from DGI offices. "DOSMIL REMOTO" operated in
150 branches of the national commercial bank (BNA) and grew to involve 55,000
taxpayers. High costs led to this activity's closure in 1997, when tax return and payment
functions under "DOSMIL" controls were transferred to "UTE."
15.   The Project helped create a telecommunications network which linked 127 DGI
and 57 BNA branches on "DOSMIL" activities that provided useful data for headquarters
departments. It also formed the basis for the organization's first electronic mail system
and later links with "WAN" and "LAN" systems. "DOSMIL" and these facilities
provided valuable resources for more effective tax administration. They enabled data on
tax obligations and receipts to be captured and rapidly disseminated, providing more
useful and reliable guidance for auditing activity than the former manual methods. A
new system permnits the consolidation of "DOSMIL" data, facilitating extensive
examination of IVA collections by different economic and geographic areas, and
development of tax payment projections. Similarly, integrated "DOSMIL" data tracked
payments and measurements of taxpayer compliance, in turn enabling DGI to upgrade its
indicators for evaluating its own entities' performance.



5
16.   The Project also helped install practices designed to increase the efficiency of
other DGI functions. The accounting and budgeting system's manual processing was
replaced in 1993 with the installation of a computerized operation (AUDINT). DGI then
also established links with the Government's new financial management information
system and readily exceeded its requirements. Project support in DGI's treasury area
improved its direction. All these have strengthened DGI's controls and management but
the improvements largely reflected relatively rudimentary upgrading. The accounting
and budgeting system still fails to provide cost data by program, product and
management units.
17.   DGI's ability to select suitable audit cases improved through the development of
cross-checking information models and consolidation of other agencies' data. Some 43
studies on different economic sectors helped build a database. DGI expanded the Project-
aided METFIS system established for improving taxpayer auditing procedures to set
better controls over the use of IVA invoices for fiscal credits. Other elements of METFIS
were stopped in 1996 for failure of the consultants' work to be properly integrated into
line operations. In addition, the AUDINT system was first suspended and later revived.
Therefore, the application of these advances for the desired better audit performance and
its management control is incomplete.  In their wake, DGI's auditing operations
progressed but still show weaknesses, notably in the quantity and quality of taxpayer
data. Planning and execution of inspections, auditing methods, management controls and
uses of information systems appear to be improving slowly.
18.   The Project helped DGI learn US Internal Revenue Service methods to protect the
security and integrity of tax information, and better control against fraud and
inappropriate entry. The results were used in the definition of specifications for higher
level telecommunication facilities, especially for encapsulating messages and encryption.
They also facilitated the use of the Internet for controlling IVA evasion.
19.   Tax collection has become more efficient and effective. Its unit costs have fallen
with the progressive advances in information technology and involving banks in receipts.
Collection administrative costs fell from 2.5 percent of returns in 1991 to 1.9 percent in
1993-97. Collection returns increased from 44 pesos for each peso spent on
administration to almost 51 pesos in 1996-97.
20.   There was partial success in applying technological changes under the. legal
framework component. Experts completed a systematic compilation of the disorganized
body of laws and regulations, which was to provide the foundation for an electronic
database. The latter was actually installed but DGI staff opposition impeded its use. And
the planned related personnel training was not executed due to staff-consultant disputes.
(The agency's officials, in this connection, have underscored internal resistance to
changes, particularly those involving the introduction of information technology). The
database activity has since been transferred to the Justice Ministry. There was greater
success in the scheme to install a computerized legal administration and files
management system in all units concerned with contentious bad debt cases. New



6
software and other helped cut processing time, increase the number of judgments finally
paid, and install centralized registration and control over all judgments. All these have
been fruitful: in 1997-98, AFIP reported having satisfactorily settled 30,300 cases (with
an adjustment of over $6 billion); gained another $700 million by effective collection of
bad debts; initiated 24,000 new investigations; and closed 12,000 delinquent businesses.
Unfortunately though, the independent Fiscal Tribunal which examines payment issues
still processes these slowly and continues to limit the tax agency's receipts.
21.   The planned institutional restructuring was initially delayed to await the
organizational and personnel changes related to the new union work agreement that was
being concluded at the Project's beginning. Subsequently, the several changes in the
incumbents of the Director General's post and their differing interests in pursuing this
objective obstructed its undertaking. Fortunately though, the present AFIP Administrator
revived these intentions on assuming office in 1996, albeit with a different emphasis:
fully integrating Customs and the ex-DGI functions. Also, the training aspects of the
envisaged organizational improvements took root following greater management interest
in staff upgrading. From 1991 to 1997, the number of training courses given rose from
1,075 to 4,188, with a more than fourfold increase in the number of participants' hours.
The Project also contributed to restructuring and expanding the institution's training unit
and introducing more industrial-type instruction.
22.   The Project advanced DGI's transformation into a much more decentralized
institution whose field units now have far greater operating autonomy. "DOSMIL"
helped with the agency's decision to decentralize collections. Other Project elements also
contributed by propelling DGI's substantial turn from dependence on a central mainframe
data system. It was originally intended to rationalize the latter but computer science
advances identified more efficient methods. Consequently, the central mainframe now
performs a comparatively marginal role. Further, measures which DGI initiated outside
of the project brought about significant organizational changes through the installation of
advanced telecommunications networks. Ultimately, Loan 3460 supported the latter's
design and infrastructure.
23.   The planned actions to encourage greater voluntary taxpayer compliance through
stimulation of positive cultural changes were only partly implemented. But the Project
helped lessen compliance costs. "DOSMIL" permitted the substitution of magnetic
media for tax returns for the previous complicated paper presentations. Taxpayers have
used diskettes for tax forms and, more recently, forms designed for optical character
recognition reading. Over 96% of sworn declarations now come in via the software AFIP
distributes. The agency has also facilitated electronic payment transfers and conducted
studies regarding similar tax return submissions, introduced direct debit payment service,
simplified low income payers' obligations, and permitted relatively low interest rate
installment payments.
24.   At the same time, "DOSMIL" contributed to tightening incentives for taxpayers'
fulfillment of their obligations by expanding the tax agency's information base. And a
new billing system strengthened control of payment transactions by deterring falsification



7
of documentation. With these and other new tools, the number of taxpayers almost
tripled from 1991 to 1997, helping improve Argentina's poor record in curbing tax
evasion. IMF estimates indicate that VAT compliance levels increased from 33.9% in
1989 to 64.4% in 1992 (but that it also decreased to 59.5% in 1993 and 55.1% in 1994).
AFIP estimates that the evasion rate declined to 42 percent in 1995 and 37 percent in
1997.  Overall, these suggest commendable progress (although rigorously reliable
statistics in this areas are hard to determine). But there remains scope for betterment:
VAT compliance in Uruguay was 72% and 82% in Chile in 1994.
E. Project Sustainability and Future Operations
25.   The sustainability of the Project's achievements is rated "Likely". "DOSMIL"
and many other new, now proven techniques put in place are entrenched and AFIP's
commitment to maintaining these changes shows promising signs of durability. In
addition, the follow-on project launched in 1997 should help expand several of the
activities supported by Loan 3460. Its components call for further advancing the legal
framework governing tax administration and strengthening AFIP's legal procedures on
collections and audits; simplifying and monitoring taxpayer compliance; augmenting
information technology services; bolstering organizational development and personnel
management; and improving audit activities. These bode well. However, the long-term
sustainability of the Project will depend fundamentally on AFIP's effecting and
maintaining the changes needed to achieve a more adequate institutional base. The
problem is complicated by the daunting challenges of fully integrating the management
of income and related taxes, social security contributions and customs obligations. (A
recent ECLAC review of Latin American tax trends judged this combination to be the
most advanced multi-sector organizational model in the region.)
26.   The project's future operations require the further strengthening of the
organization in several key areas so as to achieve better overall performance. They also
hinge on the fate of the aforementioned follow-on activity. Its plans appear to comprise
appropriate arrangements for continuation of several important project components.
These include provisions for timely inputs and the systematic evaluation of project results
based on comprehensive performance indicators. In view of the IDB's role, the Bank has
not maintained monitoring of the operations supported under Loan 3460.
F. Bank Performance
27.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Project design followed the
recommendations for further support of Argentine tax improvements set out in OED's
review of the First Project, as well as recommendations for tax administration reform
activities in OED's 1996 "Fiscal Management in Adjustment Lending" report. Project
preparation was very detailed with activity and performance measures set out for every
component. Project documentation was exemplary in its inclusion of definitions of new
functions, procedures and systems in all major areas. To be sure, the Project was very



8
demanding but this was necessitated by the fiscal difficulties at the time, on whose
account the Government and the Bank fully agreed that it was imperative to squarely
tackle the main issues. The objectives were clear, realistic, not complex; almost none of
the components were particularly original for DGI (or typical public sector management
operations). Moreover, the project yardsticks set out in the appraisal report and Loan
Agreement proved useful for keeping the operation well directed.
28.   AFIP staff commended the Project generally for sparking, seeing through and
effectively supporting the intended changes. They expressed special appreciation for the
relatively high order of planning and implementation during project execution, which
they credited to the Bank's participation. They judged the task manager's command of
information technology especially helpful as DGI initially found the procurement of the
required hardware and software complex. And they saw the Bank's work creating a solid
basis for the further reforms they are pursuing.
29.   However, the Bank demonstrated relatively little capacity to reverse the
progressively deteriorating pattern of project execution. To be sure, the US$20 million
Loan was too small relative to the task (and even more so in comparison with DGI's size
and scale of activity), and it reduced the Bank's scope for influence. In addition, as a
practical matter, it would have been virtually impossible to safeguard the operation
against the political instability and changes in leadership that badly hurt it. Under these
circumstances and the initiation of the IDB-backed project, the Bank should have opened
a dialogue with the Borrower to bring the Project to an earlier than scheduled conclusion.
G. Borrower Performance
30.   The Government undertook its tax administration reform program with a firm
strategy, competent and motivated managers, pronounced improvements in the enabling
environment, and provisions for suitable assistance.  DGI usefully involved line
managers in efforts to carry out the investments. Its central project unit's coordination
and reporting were of high quality, and it helped avert significant deviations from Bank
policies during project implementation. A check during the final supervision mission of
sample purchases of goods and consultant contracting found satisfactory compliance with
IBRD norms and the Loan conditions.
31.   However, the heavy turnover in DGI's management, the recurrent slippage in its
attention to non-collection components, and the progressive disinterest in the operation
by the later Director Generals were very costly. Also, more should have been done at
the outset and subsequently to create greater institutional readiness for substantial change.
Definitive managerial action in addition should have been taken to overcome the staff
resistance (reflecting partly inadequate motivation) and other problems that obstructed
the fulfillment of some of the agreed targets. Because of the weight of these factors, the
Borrower's performance in project implementation and operation is judged to have been
less than satisfactory.



9
H. Assessment of outcome
32.   The project outcome measured against the perspective of the conditions prevailing
when it was undertaken and its set objectives presents a positive picture. The main goals-
--increasing revenues through more efficient tax administration, combined with ensuring
their sustainability---were in fact adequately fulfilled. The figures indicate that the
Project directly served to strengthen DGI's performance in tax revenue collections and
reduced tax evasion. The resulting marks moreover set near national records. Income tax
revenues in 1997 attained the highest percentages of GDP in the previous 35 years. Sales
tax and VAT collections in 1992-97 exceeded 6% of GDP, the highest throughout 1935-
97 (ref. Appendix C). And the 1994-97 social security contributions as GDP percentages
also approximated the peaks reached 40 years earlier over the same more than half-
century (ref. Appendix D). Also, IMF figures show that Argentina's 16.5 percent tax
ratio in 1990-95 was higher than the average for all LAC countries then, compared to
only two thirds of that mean in 1986-90.
33.   However, tax administration activities are not appropriately judged solely by the
level of incremental revenues. It bears noting therefore that the Project together with
DGI's simultaneous independent actions helped implant significant changes in
Argentina's tax administration capability and practices. In some respects, the agency has
become a modernizing, change-oriented institution. It shed many inefficient,
unproductive practices, and integrated relatively sophisticated ones. These have made tax
collection, management controls and communications infrastructure quite advanced in
several ways. And these have enabled the institution to grow in Argentines' views in
professionalism and credibility as an effective public sector agency. These strides have
had a more substantial institutional development impact than the First Project's.
34.   To be sure, the Borrower neglected the planned improvements in the significant
institutional development framework which the appraisal had underscored, as well as the
legal setting. Its priorities throughout the program period were instead concentrated on
technological changes. These governed the shape and pace of the tax administration
program actions rather than more basic organizational and managerial reforms (which
should have guided technology instead of vice versa). The Borrower also de-emphasized
the activities designed to engage the large project-affected population in a beneficial
participatory manner for boosting voluntary tax compliance. Further, Borrower interest
in and ownership of all elements of the Project (save for those concerned with collection
increases) waned over time with the attendant generally declining project performance.
35.   But the overall balance indicates that the Project adequately fulfilled the
Government's/Bank's desires for realizing important changes, even under difficult
circumstances. Taking all these accomplishments into account, and their continuing
importance for the major fiscal adjustment which significantly improved Argentina's
economy over the 1 990s, the Project achieved satisfactory development results.



10
I. Lessons
36.   The project experience illustrates the potential benefits of the Bank's new
adaptable lending instruments. In undertaking the requirement in this case for achieving
substantial institutional reform, it would have been far better to have employed an APL-
type approach (had this been available then). This might have produced superior results
in maintaining strong high level Borrower commitment, affording possibilities of
providing greater Bank funding, and coping with the changing economic/political tides
over an extended period.
37.   Another lesson has been drawn from DGI's historic experience. The Argentine
authorities have underscored the importance of safeguarding tax bureaus to the extent
possible from disruptive political forces because of their importance for fiscal governance
and efficient state operations. The officials sought to inject greater stability in the
management of the tax program by guaranteeing its chief administrator a multi-year term
of office and strengthening the institution's political independence.
38.   In uncertain climates, special provisions should be made  to take account of
conditions in which project leadership changes cause an extended hiatus while new
authorities familiarize themselves with the institutions, the project and the status of
operations. Perhaps project coordinators should be granted extra authority for the
duration of such interregnums.



11
Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Matrix of Project Activities
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs/i
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
(O)             (O)               (O)                (Ol)
Macro Policies                                   
Sector Policies                                       /                 IZ
Financial Objectives                                                    L                 /
Institutional Development                                               E l L             LI
Physical Objectives                                   LI                LI                I
Poverty Reduction                                     [                 [                 /
Gender Issues                                         ]                 II                I 
Other Social Objectives                                                 LI                /
Environmental Objectives             LI               [                 aI 
Public Sector Management             e[                                 [                 II]
Private Sector Development            CI              L                  I 
Other (specify)                       ]               LI                C                  C
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(n)                       ([o)                       (U)
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory           Satisfactoryt               Deficient
(U)                      (U)                         (0)
Identification                                                 /                          I]
Preparation Assistance                ['                                                   LI
Appraisal                             i                        V                           L
Supervision                                                    /                          LI



13
Higl
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
(O)             (O)             (0)
Preparation                                                    I  
Implementation                                                                 I,"
Covenant Compliance                            i               i               E
Operation (if applicable)                                                      1'
Hily                                                Hiy
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(O)             (O)              (O)                (E)
O]             Jf                F                  O



14
Table 2
Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan                Purpose              Amount    Year of      Status
(US$ M)   Approval
Loan 2712-AR   Public Sector Management        18.5       1986    Disbursed
Loan 3015-AR   Tax Administration Technical     6.5       1989    Disbursed
Assistance
Loan 3362-AR   Public Sector Reform            23.0       1991     Disbursed
Technical Assistance
Loan 3394-AR   Public Sector Reform           325.0       1991     Disbursed



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    May 1991    May 1991
Preparation                             Seven Months      Seven Months
Appraisal                               December 1991     December 1991
Board Presentation                      April 1992        April 1992
Signing                                 June 1992         June 1992
Effectiveness                           August 1992       August 1992
Loan Closing                            February 1997     February 1999



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92 FY93  FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Appraisal Estimate              1.5  9.0    15.1  18.4  20.0  0
Actual                          0    7.8    14.1  15.8  17.2  17.9  18.2  20.0
Actual as % of Estimate        0      86      93   86   86   N/A  N/A  N/A
Date of Final Disbursement: February 12, 1999



17
Table 5: Matrix of Project Activities
OBJECTIVE                        ACTIVITIES                        OUTCOMES
A. Improvements in Legal
Framework
1. Rationalize procedural        Examination of tax regulations in  Rationalization of laws re: IVA, fuel
regulations, laws decrees, resolutions  effect in 1989-94 for simplification    and fiscal tax procedures. Proposed
and judicial documentation; create a  of DGI procedures            changes in gross profits tax law still
DGI database                                                       under legislative review.
Recommendations helped in
codification of tax regulations and
development of methodology for
their elaboration.
Creation of electronic database for    Consultants prepared plan for
systematic maintenance of tax laws    database which DGI installed. It has
and facilitating their orderly    not been used however, nor was DGI
updating when needed; and for     staff trained for this purpose. The
assisting DGI staff in preparation of   objective of providing speedy access
new regulations, interventions in  to tax law documentation was
review procedures and replies to  therefore unfulfilled. The database
public queries                   task was transferred in 1997 to the
Ministry of Justice.
2. Improve the operating capabilities  Creation of computerized data  New system ("GELTEX") installed
of DGI legal units               system governing legal            has helped cut case processing times,
administration and files management  increase collections, (e.g., US$700
in units concerned with contentious    million in 1977-98); and impose
debt cases                        centralized registration and control
over all cases. However, continued
delays in Fiscal Tribunal
(independent of DGI) review of
cases still slow the process.
B. Improvements in DGI
Administration
Revision of DGI Structure and    Implementation of measures to     Organization study, survey of
Functions                        advance the 1991 DGI              personnel policies, and execution of
reorganization through further   their results were initially delayed
structural changes, changes,      and never fully carried out.
modification of functions,        However, a comparable activity has
redistribution of human resources  been undertaken under a follow-up
project, which is focused on DGI's
integration with the former Customs
agency into AFIP.



18
OBJECTIVE                       ACTIVITIES                        OUTCOMES
Loan 3460 did help restructure DGI's
training functions and expand its
program (about 17,000 participants).
In 1991-97, courses and participants
quadrupled. Much greater training was
devoted to information technology than
before, as well as responding to DGI's
absorption of first social security and
later customs.
Establishment of Federal Public  Decrees and new procedures code
Revenue Administration (AFIP)    adopted for effecting the organizational
changes.
Improved efficiency of           Replication of automated        Installation of new systems throughout
administrative procedures        administrative system (AUDINT)   DGI field offices, with particular
initiatives of the First Project, and   success in accounting, treasury and
development of further internal  personnel sectors. These have
audit improvements             strengthened DGI's management and
_ _ _ ____________________________  control.
The accounting and budgeting
operation replaced its manual methods
with computerized systems.
These changes enabled DGI to readily
meet the new Government
requirements for integrated financial
management data and methods.
Installation of electronic mail  New system improved
headquarters/field and internal
communications, e.g., reducing time
needed for replying to requests,
providing data. In mid-1998, there
were 1,020 users in central offices with
expected 20% increase before year
end.
Strengthening DGI library       Activity dropped for lack of interest
Strengthening supervision of DGI   Activity dropped because of
proceedings at Fiscal Tribunal  implementation difficulties.
Implementation of management    DGI top and middle-level managers
information systems for internal    now have greater, more rapid access to
decision making                 more reliable data.
Strengthening internal auditing with Implementation plan carried out.
automated systems



19
OBJECTIVE                       ACTIVITIES                       OUTCOMES
C. Improvement of Tax Collection
Installation of more advanced,   Replication of Large Taxpayer   "DOSMIL" installed in 141 local
technologically supported collection   Collection System ("DOSMIL")    offices. It helped increase the base of
systems                          throughout DGI network          large taxpayers registered and
controlled to 238,000 in 1997.
"DOSMIL" has become the central tax
collection instrument. It helped
multiply VAT payments from 2.7
million pesos in 1991 to 27.2 million
in 1997.
Adaptation of "DOSMIL" techniques  Creation and installation of  New system installed in 63 field
to encompass small and medium    '"SICOFI"                       offices enabled DGI to add almost
taxpayers                                                        300,000 small and medium taxpayers
to its rolls through 1995. Like
"DOSMIL", it brought on-line control
over this group, in the process easing
the identification of taxpayers failing
to present tax data.
Telecommunications advances led
DGI to replace "SICOFI" with more
___________________________ __________sophisticated instrument after 1995.
Design and installation of     Telecommunication links now connect
telecommunications network     127 AFIP entities along with 57
branches of Banco Nacion (which
receive tax payments). Higher speed
facilities and ties with "LAN" and
"WAN" systems have since been
added, along with related
improvements in AFIP buildings.
Design and development of system  System implemented has enabled AFIP
of assembling field office data on   units on control of administration and
collections, and integrating it into  inspections, as well as to build up
a consolidated data base       capacities not previously in existence.
Examinations of different economic
and geographic sectors' IVA payments,
development of tax payment
projections.



20
OBJECTIVE                         ACTIVITIES                       OUTCOMES
Electronic capture of tax return data  Examination of optical character   Prototype system developed for
reading methods and other      electronic capture and presentation
possibilities of reducing errors in   whose development is scheduled to be
the capture and recording of tax  done under follow-up project. This
returns, as well as subsequent  would further extend AFIP's
transfer for internal uses     accomplishments in transmitting
information electronically, e.g., over
96% of 1996/97 tax declarations were
received via such means (45% in
magnetic form, 51% readable by
OCR).
Support of new computer system      Creation of new DGI             Logistics Department established for
organizational unit to meet supply  this purpose has been performing
maintenance requirements of the    satisfactorily.
expanded stock of computer and
related systems
Incorporating collection from large  Initiation of a "DOSMIL"       System installed in 150 branches of
Taxpayers in remote areas           subsidiary to expand the collection  Banco Nacion, eventually
network so as to include taxpayers  encompassed 55,000 taxpayers. The
residing more than 80km from   system was eliminated in 1997 because
DGI offices                    of high costs. It has been replaced by
tax reporting performed under AFIP's
new telecommunications facilities
("UTE").
Integrity of systems                Program developed to protect    Advice from US Internal Revenue
AFIP's on-line systems and     Service led to plan for increasing
Internet connections from fraud,    security and integrity of information
inappropriate entry, other misuses  systems. Produced specifications for
higher quality security provision of
new telecommunications
improvements, scheduled to be
accomplished under follow-up project.
Technology transfer to municipalities  Adaptation of "DOSMIL"       Installed revised system in Puerto
collection system to meet      Madryn Municipality, where it is
municipal tax collection needs  reported to be working well.
D. Improvements in Taxpayer
Auditing
Collection of information from external   Arrangements initiated with  Arrangements with other sources not
sources and cross-checking DGI data for  Central Bank, insurance offices on  found productive because of
detection of tax evasion trends     possible audit subjects         information problems and the other
agencies' reluctance to furnish data.
Five study teams now examine
economic and financial trends in
varied sectors. Their 43 studies are
reflected in auditors' guidance
manuals, as are information on tax
noncompliance from independent
sources.



21
OBJECTIVE                         ACTIVITIES                        OUTCOMES
AFIP's capacity to detect evasion and
better select audit cases is reportedly
improved.
The selection function has been
decentralized to regional offices, who
also now perform quality control over
audit performance and monitor
processing of audit cases.
Development of new system for    Equipment installed to tighten
control of printing of          procedures governing authorization of
authorizations used in processing   fiscal credit, limiting evasion of VAT
VAT information for fiscal credits  payments. New system was expanded
in 1997 to introduce controls engaging
Internet.
Creation of central database from                                    Initiated information system to
collections system information, together                             reactivate past methods of tracking
with exogenous data                                                  taxpayers, and to correct tax records
considered only 50% accurate. This
and the elaboration of the database
have combined with changes in
auditing methodology and the
organizational structure for this
function to upgrade AFIP's activities in
the sector.
Some 2,850 micro PCs were provided
to field inspectors for accessing
regional database.



22
Development of new system for control  Equipment installed to tighten
of printing of authorizations used in  procedures governing authorization
processing VAT information for fiscal   of fiscal credit, limiting evasion of
credits                             VAT payments.
Improvement of Field Auditing  Design of system for use by tax    Pilot system experimented;
Methods                        inspectors and training in its uses  inspectors trained.
DGI experimented with elaborating
better management controls over
auditing functions. These and other
aspects of the Auditing component
were curtailed in 1995-96 for
contractor problems, limited staff
support for some proposed reforms,
changes in AFIP management
priorities, etc. Some however were
reactivated and their results are
being applied in the development of
proposed new systems for the same
purposes.
Overall, the planning and execution
of inspections, auditing methods
and management controls are being
modernized and made more agile
but at a slow pace.
E. Improved Taxpayer Services                                      Measures to facilitate compliance,
e.g, enabling taxpayer returns via
magnetic forms, in which over 96
percent of 1996/97 returns were
presented (ref. Note above).
Internet submissions should be
feasible shortly.
Taxpayers permitted to use direct
debit methods for meeting tax
obligation.
Better AFIP facilities
AFIP installed central telephone
system for answering taxpayers'
questions and multimedia
information services. Tax formns
have been revised and simplified.



23
Table 6: Bank Resources Staff Inputs'
Stage of                                     Actual
Project Cycle                       Weeks                   US$
Through appraisal                                   36.7                   96.1
Appraisal-Board                                      1.1                   2.8
Board-effectiveness                                  8.0                   24.0
Supervision                                         114.3                 337.0
Total                                               160.1                 459.9
Includes Bank-financed and Trust Fund Consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.



24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose                         Status                      Impact
Study of DGI's          Analysis of the Tax Bureau's  The study was not begun by  Organizational changes
organization            structure, personnel policies   the targeted date and deferred   made without benefit of
and procedures             indefinitely thereafter. A   overall institutional
similar study has been      assessment. One involved
undertaken under the new    AFIP's establishment (see
IDB-supported project.      note below).
Review of procedural tax    Simplification and      This component was somewhat  Contributed to the
laws                    rationalization of tax law  aborted by the lack of       rationalization of laws re:
documentation              implementation of the        IVA, fuel and fiscal tax
database developed from this   procedures, plus
review. The database was    recommendations for similar
subsequently transferred to the   improvements on gross
Justice Ministry.           profits tax law. It also led to
better codification of tax
regulations.
Examination of the      Determination of the quality    US Internal Revenue Service    IRS recommendations
security and integrity of    of the Bureau's safeguards  recommended improvement  applied in defnition of
the Tax Bureau's on-line    against fraudulent or other  measures.               specifications for
systems                 illicit entry into its collections                       telecommunication
and other systems                                       improvements.
Diagnosis of National Tax   Remediation of the long  Study was dropped for DGI's    None
Court administration    Court delays in its        inability to obtain needed
administrative reviews of tax   collaboration
appeal cases
Surveys of representative   Identification of DGI service   Study was dropped as part of    The proposed study was
groups' perceptions of  areas needing improvement in  the only partial implementation  unproductive. But DGI and
DGI                     order to improve voluntary  of the overall Taxpayer      other Government entities
compliance                 Services component.          took other measures to try to
improve taxpayers' views
and tax compliance.
Study on expansion of   Examination of the          Study was added to the scope    AFIP's creation was assisted
DGI's functions         institutional impact of the  of the Second Project. Decrees  in the process, which the
Government's decision to   for the establishment of AFIP   follow-up project is
merge social security tax  were prepared and new        advancing further.
payments and customs tax   procedures elaborated for the
collections with the prior DGI  organizational changes.
functions



25
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)            Actual (US$'000)'
Project component          DGI        IBRD        Total        DGI        IBRD        Total
Legal Framework             44         600         644         222         1,124      1,346
DGI-Administration         387        5,170       5,557        1,507      5,289       6,796
Collection and Taxpayer   8,874       11,960      20,834      5,442       6,229      11,671
Services
Tax payer Auditing         145         1,120      1,265       3,909       4,614       8,523
Project Implementation     550        1,150       1,700        814        2,744       3,558
Total                     10,000      20,000      30,000      11,894      20,000     31,894
"Actual" figures reflect DGI's project accounts and IBRD estimates of Loan 3460 disbursements
allocated per project component



26
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Argentina
Second Tax Administration Project
(Loan 3460-AR)
Section      Covenant                     Description of covenant                          Comments
type
3.01c            5       Maintain a Project Implementation Unit with the General
Coordinator and appropriate staff for the duration of the            C
Project
3.01d            5       Carry out the project in accordance with the Project                  C
Implementation Plan
3.02            5        Enter into contractual arrangements with an agent/s for
handling contracting of consultants, procurement of                  C
goods and arranging project training
3.03            5        Carry out all studies and activities cited in the Loan
Agreement; provide the Bank an opportunity to comment               CP
on their findings, recommendations and action plans; and
prepare programs to carry out their recommendations,
___ _________  taking the Bank's comments into account.
3.05            10       Implement a staff training plan, select its prospective              CP
beneficiaries, exchange views annually on it and inform
the Bank on its results and benefits
3.06            12       Before installing the large Taxpayer Collection system in
any DGI agency, enter into contractual arrangements                  C
with a bank to set up counters in the agency
3.07            12       Carry out an organizational study of DGI and a review of
personnel policies and procedures by May 30, 1994 and               NC
by three months later, implement the resulting
reorganization plan
3.08            5        Maintain adequate numbers of qualified staff in DGI as
counterparts of loan-financed consultants, and exclude               C
DGI staff from receiving loan financing for consulting
services
3.10            9        Exchange views with the Bank on the project by June 30,
1994                                                                 C
9       Maintain records and accounts, and have them audited
4.01b                     every year by acceptable independent auditors                        C
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                              8. = Indigenous peqple
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                               10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds        11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                             regulatory/institutional action
6.=  Environmentalcovenants                        13. = Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



Appendix A
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
Second Tax Administration Project (Loan 3460-AR)
AIDE MEMOIRE
World Bank supervision mission
August 23rd- September 9th 1998
1) Summary of the findings and agreements between Ing. Jose Mauro Brusa, General
Coordinator of the project, managers and staff of the AFIP' and a World Bank supervision
mission led Herman Nissenbaum (mission leader), Benjamin Schutz (Subdirector of
Informatics, S112), Juan Alberto Rojas (senior counsel, SII), Maly Leichtle (consultant), and
Ludovico Tassoni (consultant), under the overall supervision of the project's Task Team
Leader, Luis Jose Mejia (LCSPR). The mission would like to especially thank Dr. Carlos
Silvani, AFIP Administrator, and his management and staff, as we are aware of the enormous
efforts they are making to continue and expand the reform of the AFIP and in consequence
the value of the time they gave the mission.
Objectives of the Mission
2) The mission's objectives were to review progress on the subject Project, to agree on the
arrangements for its completion, and carry out preliminary work for the preparation at
headquarters of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for this project.
Conclusions
3) The general conclusions of the mission were that the Project had served a timely and useful
purpose during its lifetime, particularly in assisting the Government's campaign of fiscal
adjustment in the early 1990s. Of all the Project's components, special commendation was
given to the design and implementation of "DOSMIL" (which as it happens the present AFIP
Administrator had recommended to a predecessor of his) and its extensions, the related
decentralization of certain AFIP activities, improvements in its management control methods,
the modernization of AFIP's information technology equipment and procedures. Due, among
others, to the turnover in AFIP management during the project period, and the disruption
related to the former DGI's requirement to absorb first Social Security functions, and then
Customs responsibilities among other factors, other planned activities of the Project were less
successfully implemented. Nevertheless, it was felt that most of the important aims of the
project were successfully met, and that most efforts, including some of the less successful
ones, had provided the basis for the continuing reform program which an IDB loan approved
in 1997 is now supporting.
AFIP: Administracion Federal de Ingresos Puiblicos - Tax and Customs Administration Agency
2    S1I: Sistema de Inpuestos Internos - Clhilean Internal Revenue Service



General Observations and Agreements
4) During discussions on the Project's final execution, AFIP requested and the Task Manager
concurred in the use of US$1.09 million of the remaining Loan proceeds for the conclusion
of the planned office refurbishing works. Consequently, it was agreed to extend the Project's
Closing Date until December 31, 1998 and to reallocate the Loan's funds to cover costs
involved. Specifications for the refurbishing and the formal request for the extension would
be sent to the Bank before the September 15, 1998.
5) The mission, with, as alluded to above, the full cooperation of the Project Coordination Unit,
managers and staff of the AFIP, collected sufficient data, in its judgment, to fulfill ICR
requirements. This included interviewing numerous present and past AFIP officers
conversant with the Project, and visits to AFIP offices in La Plata and Chascomuis in order to
observe the functioning of Project-supported systems and other activities.
Next Steps
6) The schedule for the next steps is as follows:
a) September 12, 1998:
i)    Formal extension request letter and specifications for cableing are sent to the
Bank
ii)   the consultant's reports are provided to the General Coordinator for comments.
b) September 18, 1998:
i)    Extension is formalized; no objection for 6ffice refurbishing is sent to AFIP
ii)    AFIP's portion of the ICR report is sent to the Bank.
iii)   The General Coordinator's comments on the consultant's reports are sent to the
Bank.
c) October 30, 1998:
i) A draft of the Implementation Completion Report is sent to the General Coordinator
for his review.
d) November 15,1998:
(i) Final draft of the Implementation Completion Report is sent for review in the Bank as
appropriate.
Jose Mauro Brusa                            Luis'Jose Meiial
General Coordinator                         Task T e
Second Tax Administration Project                  The World Bank



ARQGNTINA           Appendix B
TAX ADMINISTRATION TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE IOAN
LOAN 3468-AR
PARTE II: ANALTSIS DESDE LA PERSPECrIVA DEI. PRESTATARIO
1. Introducciou
El pr6stamo 3460-AR contratado cn 1993 es la, continuaci6n dcl programa 3015-AR
(contratado en marzo de 1989 y culminado en marzo de 1994). El objcrivo as apoyar las
politicas del gobierno de mejoratmiento y modernizaci6n do la Adininistraci6n Tributaria.
Ambos programas han estado orientados a contribuir a la estrategia de la DGI de
recuperar niveics aceepaties de presion ributaria, la cual habia caldo en i989 a Lan solo
12.7 % del PBI, parza lo cual se llev6 a cabo una agresiva estrategia de mnodernizaci6n de
las herramnientas informiticas aplicadas al proccso dc rccaudaci6n.
Durante el desarrullo del provccto. la DCI cnfircnt6 dos cambios importantcs cO Su
quehacer, Ia incorporaci6n de la recaudacion de la seguridad social a parLir de abril de
1993 y la fiLsi6n con Aduanas y creacion dc la Administraci6n Federal dc Ingresos
Pfublicos (AFTP) a fines de 1996. Ambas circustancias impactan en divcrsa mcdida cl
desarrollo del programa, debicndo haccrsc cambios en las prioridadcs y rnodifIcacidn dc
a]gunas componentes.
El proycoto continua cl mijorarnicnto y consolidaci6n dc los sistemas informaticos y
especial cnfasis en el desarrollo instiiucional. Ademnas, se apoya el dise?io y concreci6n
de un nuevo programa para la instinucionalizaci6n dc la AFrP de continuidad dc! csfucrzo
modernizador iniciado en 1989, lo cual culniina con Cr6ddto DID 1034 OC-AR.
2. Resultados
Los principales resultados del proyecto son los siguientes:
*  La incorporaci6n de tecnologia par. la autornatizaci6n de las labores adrninistrativas,
y la institucionalizaci6n de los nuevos procedimientos de recaudacidn permitcn clevar
sustativamcnlc la recaudacion, teniendo como consecuencia el aunmento de la presi6n
fiscal a un 18.0 % en 1997.
* La dcscontralizaci6n dc las labores de recaudaci6n y cl fortalecimiento de las
Agencias ha elevado el control de los contibuyentes, elevando los indices dc
cumplimiento tributario, un 95% de las declaraciones juradas sC rccibci Cn tiempo y
sin crrores.
*  El contar con un sistvma funcionando en fobrna efectiva en at imbito de la
recaudaci6n tributaria permiWi6 asumir la rccaudaci6n dc la prcvisi6n. Esra sc rcaliz6
mediante una tercerizaci6n, sin paruicipaci6n del prayccto. Sin cmbargo, sc agrcgaron
las nuevas tareas a los procedimicntos y sistcmas informaticos dcI Dosmil. Ademis,
ambas informiticas se vinculan en forma cicctr6nica y compartcn informaci6n.



a  En cl area de fiscalizaci6n sc construy6 una Base de Datos con abundante y variada
informaci6n de los contribuyentes, la cual csti aun en proceso dc ordcnamiento, y se
actualiza perrnanentemente. Mojora la capacidad de selocci6n de los contribuyentes a
fiscalizar a trav6s de cfectuar cruces de informaci6n y gencrar indicadorcs de
incumplimiento tributario.
0 Sc confcccionaron 43 Tnanuales de fiscalizaci6n, a partir de estudios scctorialcs
realizados, los cuales contienen un amplio conocimiento de distintos swcorcs
econ6micos, como asimismo de las modalidades y formas que adopta la cvasi6n en
cada scctor. Su uso ha mezjorado la identificaci6n de las areas dc cvasi6n lograndose
buenos resultados en tdrminos de contribuci6n.
* En el arca lceal, sc apoya la creaci6n de la Direcci6n dc Control, bajo dcpcndencia
directa del Administrador Gcncral, realiza ei control de tdos los proccsos
contenciosos promovidos par la administraci6n.
*  En lo institucional, se apoya la pucsta en fincionamiento de la AFTP, dictdndose
todas las normas neccsarias para la correcta y completa integraci6n de ambos
Servicios, desde el punto de vista funcional. Solo so exceptuan las arcas lcgal y la de
operaciones debido a su alto nivel de especializaci6n.
a Se efectuia la elaboraci6n de los textos sistematizados de la Ley dc IVA; de la 5cy
sobre impuestos especificos a los combustibics; y del Cbdigo de Procdimientos
Fiscaics; todos los cualcs se encuentran en vigencia. Solo falta la ley sobre el
impucsto a las ganancias, por cuanto se Ic csthn incorporando cambios sustantivos en
un proyecto quc se encuentra en tramitc legislativo.
v Se clabora el Plan estrat6gico de la DGI para el periodo 1996 - 2000, formulado a
nivcl dc objctivos y cstratcgias.
*  Se desarrolla la conccptualizaci6n do la cstratcgia informitica y la politica de
Tecnologia dc Informaci6n. Esto incluyc cl programa dc rccupcraci6n, cn un plazo dc
tres aftos la indcpcadcncia cstrat6gica en el discho, dcsarrollo, opcraci6n y
!mantonimicnto de los sistemas automatizados de informaci6n.
* Se implementa el correo electr6nico, abarcando a 1250 usuarios, de la sedc central y
de todas las localizaciones distribuidas.
*  Se habilita un backbone de datus y el6ctrico de ultima generaci6n para el edificio
central de la AFIP con capacidad para atender a 4000 usuarios. Se espera su puesta en
fincionamicnto cl primer trinestre de 1999.
*  Se elaboran los pliegos de licitaci6n para la nueva Red de Tclecomunicaciones y su
equipamiento complemcntario, lo cual permite la vinculaci6n con el proyecto del BlIT)
reci6n iniciado.
Como dificit se menciona lo siguicntc:
* En el Imbito dc la fiscalizacd6n no sc lograron plonamcnte los resultados esperados,
particularmenee el sistema AUDTNT para esta area, el cual ftic dcsarrollado pcro no
fue posible de implementar debido a sus problemas de fuincionamiento.
Tampoco se cuenta con una aplicaci6n orientada a extracr informaci6n dcl
computador central y depositarla en un notebook, para mejorar la calidad de la
fiscalizaci6n dc campo, dobido principalmcnte a deficiencias de seguidad y
dificultad de uso. No obstante, los equipos computacionaics adquiridos para su



implementaci6n, han pernitido modernizar y agilizar las tareas de la funci6n
fiscalizadora .
i  En lo referido al mcjoramiento del Area legal, el proycoto de banco de datos
clcctr6nico no se complct6 exitosamcntc. Dicha base de datos no se utiliza dado que
no se complet6 su proccso de implemcntaci6n.
*  En el arca de capacitacifn, el proyecto en terminos gcncralcs rcaliz6 estas tareas en
forma deficiente. No se pfioriz.6 adecuadamcntc cstc tcma, y esto ha traido
deficicncias en cl uso dc las nuevas herramientas por parte de los funcionarios.
3. Conclusi6a
El proyecto ha cumplido sus objctivos dc fortalccimicnto de la DGI, Se ha logrado
mejorar los procediinicntos y sistcmas informiticos, aumentar la recaudaci6n y mejorar la
productividad con la incorporaci6n de tccaologias mas modcrnas. I-as innovaciones
principales eslan adecuadamenta institucionlalizadas y garantizada su sustentabilidad
futura, particularmente la desc.entralizaci6n de la gesti6n operativa y la scgmcntacicn de
los contribuyentes.
Se debe valorar adecuadamente la capacidad mostrada por la DGI para asumir la dc la
prcvisifn, si que sus sistemas colapsaran. Esto se realiz6 bajo los mismos criterios de
segmentaci6n de la tributaci6n, depositando en los sistemas desarrollados por el provecto
del Banco Mundial la recaudaci6n de los grandes contribuyentes de este nuevo item. Si
bien la recaudaci6n se realiza vfa un tercerizaci6n sin la participaci6n dcl proyccto,
ambos sistemas de recaudaci6n son coiherentes y se integraii adecuadamonte.
Este proyecto apoya en orrna fiundamental el fobtalecimiento) de la organica dc la
instituci6n. En particular, bajo el proyecto se realizan los programnas de planificaci&n de
la recuperacifn de la independencia estratdgica de la informitica, deteriorada por el la
tercerIzaci6n de la previsi6n. En este mismo orden de materias, se realizan las tareas para
consolidar la fiusi6n de la DGI y la Administraci6n Nacional dc Aduanas para constituir
la AFIP.
El proyecto contribuye a la formalizaci6n de los planes de acci6n para el futuro de la
instituci6n, elaborandose el Plan Estrat4gico de la instituci6n, el cual es elevado a la
consideracion del Poder Ejecutivo.
En las arcas legal y dc fiscalizaci6n oI proyccto muestra resultados parciales, esto se
explica principalmcnto por la cultura de la inslitucihn, que ha privilegiado desde hace
muchos alios la recaudaci6n y en deticiencias objetivas en la gesti6n del proyecto en estas
componcntes.
Finalmente, se debe destacar las tareas del proyecto, realizadas cl uiltino tiempo,
destinadas a preparar la utilizaci6n de los recursos dcl nucvo proyecto 1034 CC-AR, con
lo cual se produce una neccsaria vinculacion con estc programa y se manticnc la
direcci6n trazada.



Appendix C
,Sales and VAT Tax Collection as Percentages of GDP (1935-797)
2
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
2~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........    ....... ... ..       ..........  .



Appendix D
Collections from Social Security and Customs Taxes as percentages of GDP
10 
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
* lmpu.ntos                R*ct*'$O de ts w9fW  soco      f   Rcunaws adu.tmms



IBRD 293
20000d SSS00.tA\ 70  ,                     w       60      t                                50
BOlIVIA            !20
0000X0000i000i00000    r.-                            L-- 
PARAGUAY
(iIf:   San '       IIvador    0
2 0: ;-j \--,adj-juy                                           B R A  Z  I L
/'   ~ ~ tSalta
<   {,_ b- s   rA R  x   _          s.ts~~* ~mosa                                            i\e  
}~~..   ~     ~      CHACO  ',.I
n TuJum n                               - 
.                  i f S?TUCUANTIAGO    Resistencia   Posadas tn15i
S10 \            L.Sag tao del  r   Corrientes   Vr /
T~ ~~L                      OC ' ii0t-t l m'rtgTERO  i!oz                                          i Sfti      i
LA                              coy.(( ~ .
_ \, La R~Ioo OJA\\- z                 SANTA _- AS1l '20 E    ..  t
SAN \    /                      E
UrJUAN                    C6rdoba   F
|  <\fORDOBA  UENTR
RIOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI  9
Menoza     Sa
*@                        ~~~URUGUAY
\SAN\                         Bonsie
JMENDOZA:
S  Sntoosa   *   BUENOS                                   T1      N      C
*   LA              AIRES
~ NEQ    ,PAMPA
p;Pi        -~Neuqu60        -         
2  RIO
U    ~NEGRO ~s4a                                      RETN
CHUBUT
SANTA
CRUZN
50  GoIIeg                                                 300  400  500  600101.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARI 19



