Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 3460 AR 
(Second Tax Administration Technical Assistance Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 19, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3460 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 1992, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted. 
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"DGI" means Direccion General Impositiva, the Borrower's General Tax 
Directorate;
(c)
"fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 
1 and ending on December 31 of each year;
(d)
"Management Service Contract" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
"National Tax Court" means Tribunal Fiscal, the Borrower's National Tax 
Court;
(f)
"NTD" means Direccion Nacional de Impuestos, the Borrower's National Tax 
Directorate;
(g)
"PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be maintained by the 
Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Project Administrative Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
3.09 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Project Director" means the Director of DGI;
 
(j)
"Project Manager" means a consultant appointed by the Project Director to 
exercise overall supervision of the execution of the Project and referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 
16, 1991 and December 26, 1991 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)
"Office Refurbishing" means modernization, expansion and/or restructuring 
of office infrastructure (including installation of air conditioning, upgrading of 
electrical and communication installations) as required to permit the installation and 
operation of computerized data collection and administrative systems.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty million dollars 
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank or other Bank acceptable to the Bank, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Page  3
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 
and November 15 in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Project Director is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through DGI, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall maintain in DGI a Project implementation unit with functions and 
responsibilities  satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following:
(i)
coordinating the execution of all parts of the Project;
 
(ii)
coordinating the procurement of goods and the selection of, and 
preparation of terms of reference for, the consultants required 
for the execution of the Project;
(iii)
review of all consultants' reports and providing feedback to the 
Project Director and the Bank on their content and on the 
soundness of the consultants' recommendations; and
(iv)
preparing semiannual reports on the progress of the Project.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is at all times headed by a 
full-time Manager (the Project Manager) with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified staff and consultants in 
adequate numbers.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project substantially in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Not later than 40 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower 
shall enter into contractual arrangements (the Management Service Contract), 
satisfactory to the Bank, with an agent or agents acceptable to the Bank, for handling 
the contracting of consultants and procurement of goods, and for arranging training 
activities under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Management Service 
Contract referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
carry out all studies and activities included in the Project and 
the study referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include 
the drafting of proposals for specific programs or plans of action 
to meet the objectives of the Project;
(ii)
promptly after the completion of each study, furnish to the Bank 
copy of its findings and recommendations including such programs 
or plans of action;
(iii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action; and
(iv)
where appropriate, and taking into account the Bank's comments 
Page  5
thereon, prepare programs or plans of action to carry out the 
recommendations of such studies.
(b)
The Borrower undertakes to carry out such programs or plans of action as 
required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and the Program.
Section 3.04. Not later than May 31 and November 30 of each year, starting on 
November 30, 1992, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
Project.  Such report shall contain performance indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, 
adequate to measure the qualitative and quantitative progress achieved in attaining 
the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.05. With respect to the training programs to be carried out under the 
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule for its implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than November 30 of each year exchange views with the Bank on 
the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each of such training programs and the benefits 
to be derived therefrom.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank, before the establishment of bank counters in each of DGI 
agencies nationwide.
Section 3.07. (a) Not later than May 30, 1994, the Borrower shall carry out a 
study on the internal organization of DGI including its personnel policies and 
procedures which shall include a draft plan of action (hereinafter the Reorganization 
Plan) to put into effect its recommendations.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement, 
not later than 3 months after the completion of the study referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall start the execution of the Reorganization Plan, in 
terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
Public servants employed by the Borrower under any kind of administrative 
arrangements (including leave without pay) shall not be eligible during the term of 
employment by the Borrower, for providing consulting services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain in DGI qualified staff in adequate number as 
counterparts of the consultants employed under the Project.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause DGI to carry out the Project in accordance with an 
administrative manual (the Project Administrative Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, 
which will define the administrative and professional responsibilities within the PIU 
for the execution of the Project, including timetables for administrative steps to be 
taken in PIU's and DGI's relationships with other of the Borrower's departments and 
agencies, the Bank and the agents referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 3.10. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, and not later than June 30, 1994, the Borrower shall, through DGI 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the execution of the 
project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and on the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project.
(b)
At least 30 days prior to the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 
Page  6
(a) of this Section, the Borrower, through DGI, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing 
the Borrower's actions with respect to the execution of the Project and the status 
thereof and of its obligations under this Agreement (including specific reference to 
the monitoring indicators and actions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement).
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party shall have failed to 
perform its obligations under the Management Service Contract.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: the event specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that all action shall have been taken by the Borrower in order to permit 
the procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and
(b)
that DGI shall have approved the Project Administrative Manual in terms 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the action referred to in 
paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been taken and no other action on 
behalf of the Borrower is required for the procurement of goods, office refurbishing 
and consultants' services in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date October 17, 1992, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Ministro 
de Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y
   Obras y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121952 AR
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C. 
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  8
By /s/ Daniel Marx
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               3,500,000        100%
    Services
(2) Goods                     11,560,000        100%
(3) Training                   1,590,000        100%
(4) Office                       850,000        100%
    Refurbishing
(5) Project                    1,000,000        100%
    Administration
(6) Refunding                  1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
         TOTAL                20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, "Project Administration" means office 
equipment and supplies, consultants' fees and training of staff required for the 
operation of the PIU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) individual consultant contracts (other than for Project 
Administration) if the aggregate of the amounts withdrawn from the Loan Account to 
finance such contracts shall be equal or greater than $1,200,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the efficiency of the 
Borrower's tax administration system to allow an increase in tax revenues without 
increasing tax rates; (b) to ensure the continuity and sustainability of such tax 
revenue increases; and (c) to promote and facilitate voluntary tax compliance through 
a perception of fairness and equitable distribution of the tax burden among the 
population.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
Page  9
objectives:
Part A:
Legal Framework
 
A program to review and codify existing tax laws and regulations to produce 
simplified and coherent legislative publications and develop a tax legislation 
database including hardware and software, and training of DGI staff in the use and 
application of such database.
Part B:
Improvements in DGI Administration
 
A program to expand automated accounting, personnel, and other administrative 
systems in all DGI agencies nationwide, including the acquisition and utilization of 
microcomputers and related training of DGI staff.
Part C:
Taxpayer Services
 
A program to improve the taxpayer services offered by DGI, including carrying 
out of taxpayer surveys, introduction of a manual and an automated taxpayer 
information system (including the acquisition and utilization of computer equipment 
and software) and related staff training.
Part D:
Improvement of Tax Collection Systems
A program to improve DGI's collection procedures including the establishment of 
new automated collection systems in all DGI offices nationwide, acquisition and 
utilization of equipment, office refurbishing as required for these purposes and 
related staff training.
Part E:
Improvement of Taxpayers Auditing Procedures
 
A program to improve the collection of internal and external information about 
taxpayers, including the development of methodologies and automated tools for fraud 
detection and training of  DGI staff in taxpayer audit methods and procedures.
Part F:
Project Administration
 
Provision of technical assistance services to assist the PIU in the coordination 
and administration of the Project, including auditing services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1997
835,000
through   November 15, 2008
And on May 15, 2009
795,000
 
Page  10
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable:
 
(a)
contracts for information technology equipment and system software shall 
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more;
(b)
contracts for pedagogical equipment, standard software, and office 
furniture shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$25,000 or more; and
(c)
contracts for Office Refurbishing shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or more.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  11
1.
Contracts for Office Refurbishing estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$35,000 per contract and contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of more than 
$25,000 each: (i) for pedagogical equipment up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$100,000; (ii) for standard software packages up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$200,000; and (iii) for office furniture up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for pedagogical equipment, standard software, office furniture and 
books estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, $200,000 and $200,000 respectively, and 
contracts for Office Refurnishing estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or less, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers or contractors eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Subject to prior Bank approval, miscellaneous technical books and publications 
may be procured through direct purchases. 
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to Part A.1 of this 
Section, and the first two contracts to be procured pursuant to Part B.1 and 2 of this 
Section, irrespective of their cost, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4, and 
where applicable of paragraph 2 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and the Executing Entities in carrying out the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Print from Diskette (Pages from Lotus)
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
Page  13
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
