CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 414 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
BETWEEN
THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 2, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 414 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
BETWEEN
THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 2, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1973, between THE UNION OF BURMA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Burma Railways Corporation
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to the Burma Railways Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia , of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditio-ns; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 3 1, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Burma Railways Corporation pursuant to Section


﻿4
3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all Schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   "BRC" means the Burma Railways Corporation, established as the
Union of Burma Railway Board by The Union of Burma Railway Board Act of
1951, as amended, and subsequently called Burma Railways Corporation by
Ministry of Transport and Communications Notification No. I of 1972, dated
March 16, 1972, and shall include any successor or successors thereto; and
(c)   "Investment Plan" means BRC's current four-year investment plan
(1971-72 through 1974-75) as defined by mutual agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($16,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if tl , Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and as
provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the goods and services (other than services
of consultants and specialists) required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such components and
spare parts required for rehabilitation of locomotives, railcars and rolling stock


﻿5
already in service, as are required for the Project, are to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and are estimated to cost in the aggregate not more than
the equivalent of three million one hundred thousand dollars ($3,100,000) may
be procured under procedures other than those referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section after consultation with the Association on the procedures to be
followed and the bid prices offered.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 1
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing
August 1, 1983, and ending February 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on February .1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified fcr the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Con(itions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of BRC, or any other person duly
authorized in writing by him, is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out
the Project through BRC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿6
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall make available to BRC in annual
budgetary allocations all local and foreign funds needed by BRC (i) to complete
the Project and (ii) to enable BRC to operate efficiently.
(c)   The Borrower shall re-lend to BRC the proceeds of the Credit under
a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, such agreement shall provide, inter alia, that BRC
shall pay periodically to the Borrower amounts representing (i) interest on the
amount relent at an annual rate of six per cent (6%) on the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time and (ii) amortization of the principal
amount relent over a term of twenty years including four years of grace, from
the date of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, BRC's properties and equipment and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿7
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall (i) cause to be completed, not later than
December 31, 1974, or such other date as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association, a study of the need to construct a double track
on the main line between Pyinmana and Mandalay to be made by independent
experts satisfactory to the Association in accordance with terms of reference
mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association; (ii) not later than
April 30, 1975, or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower
and  the   Association, review  with  the Association  the conclusions and
recommendations of such study; and (iii) cause BRC to suspend construction of
the double track on the main line between Pyinmana and Mandalay until it shall
be agreed by the Borrower and the Association in the light of their joint review
of such study that such construction is justified.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall (i) appoint not later than October 31, 1973,
or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association, on a full-time basis, a working group, composed of two officers of
BRC and an independent railway expert, who shall be familiar with the operation
of BRC, such working group to be mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association and have terms of reference mutually acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association, to make a study of all operational aspects of BRC and to make
recommendations, not later than March 31, 1974, or such other date as may be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association. for achieving improvements
in BRC's operations; (ii) not later than July 31, 1974, or such other date as may
be agreed upon between the Borrower and th.. Association, review with the
Association the results of such study; and (iii) cause BRC to implement the
recommendations, based on such study and review, agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
Sectior 3.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause BRC to scrap or declare as surplus and withdraw from service
and store in good order, a minimum number of main line steam locomotives in
accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) cause to be completed, not later than
December 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed upon between the


﻿8
Borrower and the Association, a study relating to the retirement of additional steam
locomotives from service and the adequacy of facilities for maintenance and
overhaul of diesel locomotives, such study to be carried out by independent experts
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and in accordance with
terms of reference to be established after prior consultation with the Association;
(ii) review with the Association, not later than June 30, 1975, or such other date
as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the
recommendations of such study; and (iii) cause BRC to implement the
recommendations, based on such study and review, agreed upon between the
Rorrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BRC to maintain rezords adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of BRC.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BRC to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal yea; audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Director General, Central Audit and
Inspection Office, acting on behalf of the Auditor-General of the Borrower; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, copies, in English translation, of
its unaudited financial statements for such year, and not later than six months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies, in English translation, of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report, in English
translation, of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of BRC
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause BRC:
(a)   to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and railway practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management assisted by qualified and competent staff;


﻿9
(b)   to take all action reasonably required to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of BRC's
business; and
(c)   to take out aid maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause BRC, commencing with the fiscal
year 1973/74, to value fixed assets in its balance sheet at historic cost in terms
of the Borrower's currency as adjusted by annual charges for depreciation of fixed
assets on the basis of the normal expected life of the various assets.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that not later than March 1, 1974,
or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association, BRC prepares a preliminary assessment of its future requirements of
machines for accounting and statistical purposes.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall take, and cause BRC to take, all such
action as may be necessary (including but without limitation to, adjusting and
maintaining tariffs) to enable BRC to achieve, (a) commencing with fiscal year
1973/74, an operating ratio of not more than 87 per cent, and (b) commencing
with fiscal year 1976/77, an operating ratio of not more than 85 per cent.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section the term "operating ratio" means
the ratio which total operating expenses, including administration expenses, taxes
(if any) other than income taxes, and maintenance and depreciation but excluding
interest and other charges on debt, shall bear to total operating revenuc, excluding
subsidies paid by the Borrower to BRC.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that BRC will incur debt only if BRC's net revenues for
the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for any later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever net
revenues are the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt incurred for the benefit
of BRC, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term  "debt" means all debt incurred by or on behalf of
BRC, including debt assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower


﻿10
for BRC, except debt incurred in the ordinary course of business
and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year
after its incurrence;
(ii)       the term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (i) under a contract or loan agreement,
on the date it is drawn down pursuant to such contract or loan
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee shall have been
entered into but shall be only counted to the extent that the
underlying debt is outstanding;
(iii)       the term "net revenues" means total revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of BRC's tariffs in effect at the time
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate, less all operating and other expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, other than income
taxes and administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv)        the term  "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by BRC, at the time such valuation
is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that
will be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)   BRC shall carry out its Investment Plan and shall not amplify that
Plan by additional investments; and
(b)   BRC's capital expenditures made between the date of this Agreement
and October 1, 1975 for assets not included in the Investment Plan shall in the
aggregate not exceed an amount equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000).


﻿11
For the purpose of this Section, the term "capital expenditure" shall mean
any expenditure to pay for or in connection with the purchase, delivery, installation
or construction of a fixed asset, or any part of such asset not required for routine
maintenance.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall ensure that BRC shall write off in its
accounts (i) as soon as possible but in any case not later than for its fiscal year
1973/74 all its inventories and fixed assets which are obsolete or non-existent on
the date of this Agreement, and (ii) for any subsequent fiscal year its inventories
and fixed assets which shall have become obsolete or shall have been lost during
that year or the last preceding fiscal year.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of BRC and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of BRC and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the


﻿12
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿13
(a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BRC or for the
suspension of its operations, without the previous mutual agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been amended or abrogated
without the previous mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
any of the events specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.0 1(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BRC, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and BRC, respectively, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and BRC in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date September 27, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01(b)(ii),
4.01 through 4.03, 4.05, 4.06, 4.08 and 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿14
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister for Planning and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry for Planning and Finance
Ministers' Office Post Office
Rangoon, Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s/ U Lwin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ William Diamond
for Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
I.         Machine Tools and Equipment for                 2,110,000
Workshops and Sheds
II.        Track and Signalling Material                   2,570,000
and Related Equipment, Equipment
for Civil Engineering Workshop
and Track and Engineering
Construction Plant
III.       Bogie Freight Car and Passenger                 4,060,000
Car Components
IV.        Diesel Breakdown Cranes                          1,090,000
V.         Material for Rehabilitation of                   1,800,000
Locomotives, Passenger Cars and
Freight Cars and for Backlog of
Maintenance
VI.        Components and Spare parts for                  3,100,000
Rehabilitation of Diesel Locomo-
tives, Passenger Cars and Rail
Cars and for Backlog of
Maintenance
VII.       Specialist Services for Part                      300,000
G(i) and (ii) of the Project
VIII.      Unallocated                                      1,670,000
TOTAL                    16,700,000


﻿17
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents (i) the last two years of the Borrower's current
four-year investment plan for BRC (1971/72 through 1974/75), essentially to
rehabilitate its physical assets, procure locomotives and rolling stock and provide
adequate facilities for repairs and maintenance of rolling stock (Parts A through
F), and (ii) three studies (Part G). The Project consists of the following:
A.    Completion of the construction of a double track from Rangoon to
Pyinmana.
B.    Construction and equipping of the workshops at Ywataung and
Myitnge.
C.    Improvement of repair facilities in existing workshops and sheds.
D.    Renewal of     rails, sleepers, ballast  and  signalling  equipment;
strengthening of bridges and track; and improvement of the civil
engineering workshop for track and construction, minor civil works
and minor signalling works.
E.    Purchase and putting into use of about 110 bogie freight cars and
61 passenger cars, 4 diesel breakdown cranes, 30 diesel locomotives,
and engines for rail cars.
F.    Rehabilitation of railcars, 38 diesel locomotives, about 106 passenger
cars and about 2000 freight cars: and maintenance of existing rolling
stock, railcars and diesel locomotives.
G.    Making with the assistance of experts (i) a study relating to the double
tracking of the main line between Pyinmana and Mandalay, (ii) a study
relating to the retirement of steam locomotives from service and the
adequacy of facilities for maintenance and overhaul of diesel
locomotives, and (iii) a study of all operational aspects of BRC.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1976.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, except components and spare parts required for replacements
on locomotives, rail cars and rolling stock:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


﻿20
2.    With respect to any other contract for equipment and materials estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, except components and spare parts required
for replacements on locomotives, rail cars and rolling stock, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Schedule for Scrapping or Withdrawing
from Service of Steam Locomotives
(excluding 30 locomotives already
assigned for scrapping and excluding
shunting locomotives)
Minimum Number of
Steam Locomotives
to be Scrapped or
to be Declared
Surplus, Withdrawn
from Service and
Year                                 Stored in Good Order
1973-74                                      24
1974-75                                      43
1975-76                                      29
1976-77                                      10
TOTAL                  106


