DoomMof
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqwt No. 12339
PROJECT COMPLEWION REPORT
SUDAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1450-SU)
SEPTEMBER 22, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12339
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operation Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This docmnt ha a restiNcd distibuion and may be used by recipiets only in the perforanae of
tKeir offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bak autorizatioL



Currecy Exchng Rates
Currency Unit = Sudanese Pounds (LS)
1 US$ to ghe LS
1982   1.51
1990   4.45
1991  1 30
1991  15.50
1952  121.00
1993  143.00
Weight and M    res
1 meter (m)              -            3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer              -            0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram                            2.20 pounds (b)
1 metric ton (m.ton)     -           2.205 pound (b)
Acronyms and AbbreviatiMns
CAD         =      Civil Aviation Department
EEC                European Economic Community
ROIS         =     Highway Organization and Investment Study
KPI         -      Khartoum Polytechnic Institute
LWOST       -     Low Water Ordinary Spring Tide
MCPW        =      Ministry of Construction and Public Works
MFEP              Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MfC         =      Ministry of Transport and Communications
NRIU        =     National Reconstruction Implenentation Unit
ODA         =     Overseas Development Administration
PPU               Project Preparation Unit
RBPC              Roads and Bridges Pubrlic Corporation
RTC         =      River Transport Corporation
SPC         =     Seaport Corporation
SRMCIR       =    Former Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport
and Roads
TPU         =     Training Production Unit
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
USAED        =     United States Agency for International Development
VOC          =     vehicle operating costs
VPD         =     vehicles per day
Government of Sudan
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE;WORLGD ANK
Waahlo.D  20433
U.SA
Office of Directo.-Gaeverla
Operattons Evalutlo
September 22, 1993
ENEORANDU4 SO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TEE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Report on Sudan
Third Highway Project
(Credit 1450-SU1)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Sudan - Third Highway
Project (Credit 1450-SU)" prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Lbstern Africa Department, Africa Regional Office, with the Borrower providing
Part II.
The project was successful in meeting its physical investment goals,
albeit with some delay and at slightly higher costs than anticipated at
appraisal. In addition, under the project progress was made in strengthening the
institutional capacity in the highway sector though not to the full extent as
expected, partly because of too ambitious expectations at appraisal and partly
because of unanticipated problems during implementation. An important step
forward was the introduction of appropriate (economic) fuel prices; though no
adequate provision was made for subsequent regular price adjustments to reflect
inflation. The objective of trucking deregulation -- a covenant -- was not
realized under the project. The economic rate of return of the project is 402.
Overall  the  project's  outcome  is  rated  satisfactory.    Its
sustainability is likely given the Government's commitment to continued road
maintenance, the strengthened institutional capacity in the highway sector, and
continuity in the Bank's lending to and involvement in the highway sector in the
Sudan. The project's institution building impact is rated partial.
The PCR is fully satisfactory: it addresses the right questions in
an appropriate fashion, provides adequate detail, and furnishes a balanced
assessment of the project experience and outcome. No audit is being planned.
Attachment
This docuan has a restricted distribution end my be used by recipients only in the perfon ce of
their officiast dties. Its contents my not otherwise be disetsed without Wortd Bsn* authorization.



FOR OMCIAL US 014LY
PROMEC1 CBANSERPCIVE
TAML OF QOMMMI
Pa8be No.
Preface  ......    ..  ..   ..  ..  ..   ..  ..  .  ..................              i
Evaluation Summary .....................                                            ii
PART I- PROJECT REVIIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Idendty  ..1.......................................                         I
Background                                                                          I
Project Objectives and Descrption  ........................               .         2
Pro      jeet Design and Ornarg                              nztton  .................................  2
Project Implementation.                                                             4
Project Results.                                                                    6
Project Sustainability ...............,                                             7
Bank Performance.                                                                   7
Borrower Performance.                                                               8
Consulting Services.                                                                9
Project Documentation and Data.                                                     9
Findings and Lessons Learned.                                                       9
PART 1 - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Evaluation of Bank Performance and Lessons Learned .10
Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned .12
Project Relationship .13
Consulting Services .13
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - Bank Related Credits ............15.........                             is
Table 2 - Project Timetable          ...................                           16
Table 3 - Project Costs .                                                          17
Table 4 - Project Financing          ..18
Table 5 - Allocation of Credit Proceeds      ..19
Table 6 - Schedule of Credit Disbursement       ..20
Table 7 - Mission Data ......................                                      21
Table 8 - Project Implementation  .................                                22
Table 9 - Compliance with Credit Covenants.                                        23
Annex I - Recalculation of EER
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SUDAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Credit 1450-SU)
PRO.IECICOMPLETION RLEPO!t
PREFAC1
TIis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Highway Project in Sudan, for
which Credit 1450-SU in the amount of SDR 15.5 million (US$16.0 million equivalent), was
approved on }March 20, 1984. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1992, three and a half
years behind the original schedule. It was disbursed to the amount of SDR 13.668 million and
SDR 1.832 million was canceled. The last payment was made on January 15, 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Eastern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Roads and Bridges Public
Corporation (RBPC) on behalf of the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in May 1993, and was based inter alia on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; the Grant Agreements (The Netherlands and Norway);
Part II from the Borrower; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- it -
SUDAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Credit 1450-SU)
POJECT. COMLTIMN REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The objectives of the Project (from SAR 4290-SU) were to support specific goals in
Sudan's Three-Year Public Investment Program (FY 1984-86), namely to:
(a) initiate irmproved planning and execution of road maintenance works: and (b) carry out stud!es
of high priority for main and feeder roads. (Credit Agreement, Schedule 2). The Project would
also improve transport planning and coordination and reorganize highway administration.(SAR,
3.01)
Im2lementation Experience
The Project start was delayed for about six months as a result of difficulties in obtaining
the Borrower's legal opinion on the Credit Agreement. The Credit closing date was extended four
times, with a total of three and a half years, from June 30, 1989, to December 31, 1992.
Extens.ons were needed pardy to accommnodate the flood emergency repair works, which were
Included in the Project through an amendment, dated April 4, 1989. T1his resulted in an extension
of 18 months, up to December 31, 1990. Other extensions were due to delay in award and
completion of contracts. Contracts for civil works were completed within their stipulated contract
periods. The two ferries were commissioned within the schedule of the contract with the shipyard.
The original design concept was found to be unsuitable and had to be amended to suit the local
conditions. The procurement process was delayed as a result of necessary changes to the bidding
documents. The political unrest in Sudan during the implementation, culminating in a change of
government in April 1985, also had an adverse effect on the administration of the Project.
Results
The physical targets of the Project were achieved substantially as planned. The consulting
services; technical assistance for the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) and the
highway investment and organization study for the Project Preparation Unit (PPU), were procured
and provided in full. About 300 pieces of equipment were rehabilitated in the workshop at "Kilo
10" through the equipment rehabilitation program initiated through the technical assistance to
RBPC. This represents about 15% of the 2000 pieces that were considered suitable for
rehabilitation. Another 300 pieces of equipment are expected to be rehabilitated by the end of
1993. The technical assistance component further initiated systems to enhance RBPC's capacity
for management of maintenance operations and minor rehabilitation works. The Khor Shambat
bridge was successfully completed. The shoulders on the Khartoum-Wad Medani-Gedaref road
were properly reinstated, arresting further serious deterioration. The two ferries at Ed Dueim
provided access of the economically important area across the river to the road from Jebel Aulia
to Rabak. In the absence of the ferries, traffic would be forced to travel 158 km over sandy tracks
through the desert on the west bank of the Nile rather than using the paved road.



- iii -
S;stainability
Although the technical assistance component overall did not achieve all its objectives it
was partly successful in initiating systems for workshop management, cost accounting and
improved transport planning. Some of the elements of the technical assistance component were
carried forward to be achieved under the ongoing Khartoum - Port Sudan Road Rehabilitation
Project, Credit 2070 -SU. These included; follow up of the government's commitment to
adequately maintain the present road network by allocation of necessary funtis, through enhanced
procedures for maintenance budgeting, planning and monitoring of maintenaice expenditures; and
R.BPC being required to present to the Bank a maintenance plan by September 30, each year,
relating budget to physical works programmed for the subsequent year and relating work to be
accomnlished with maintenance needs of the road network in the long oerm.
The operation of the two ferries at Ed Dueim has proved to be financially and
economically viable as evidenced by the recent traffic figures at the crossing and the confirmed
satisfactory rate of return on the investment. The ferry operator failed to maintain the ferries
adequately after being handed over the ferries in 1989. Arrangements were made through the
project for training of local staff to maintain and operate the ferries, and for provision of a stock
of spares and mobile workshop facilities.
Findings and Lessons
The government eventually carried out a review of transport cost, as called for in the
agreement, and the fuel prices were adjusted. However, no mechanism was instituted by the
Borrower to adjust fuel prices in step with the high rate of domestic inflation that ensued. In
hindsight the lesson is that monitoring of policy issues which carry substantial implications on the
country's economy can be started through specific investnent project covenants, but need to be
reinforced through the Bank's dialogue with the government on macro economic matters.
Another major lesson would be that technical assistance for institution building needs to
be specific and adapted to the absorptive capacity of the recipient insdtution. Also that the Bank
should be careful in including technical assistance as a major coknponent of a project (27%) when
it is not fully appreciated by the Borrower. The evidenced lack of ownership experienced during
implementation, was a reflection of this weakness.
The SAR provided a useful framework for monitoring during project implementation.
However, major changes made to the project during the unusually long preparation period, were
not fully reflected in the SAR. The Bank made appropriate use of the grants extended as co-
financing by the Dutch and the Norwegian governments.



SUDAN
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Credit 1450-SU)
PRO=T COQMPN RUET
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FRQM_ BAIN           IQRSPEIVE
1. Projec Identitv
Name                      :      Third Highway Project
Credit No.                :      1450 - SU
RVP Unit                  :      Eastern Africa Department
Infrastructure Operadons Division
Country                          Sudan
Sector                           Transport
Sub-sector                       Highway
2.    Baground
2.01 Sector Development Objectives: Government's broad development objectives in the
transport sector at the time of project preparation centered around measures designed towards
stimulating agricultural production and reducing transport botdenecks: (a) to attain a higher level
of utilization of existing facilities by promoting operating efficiency; (b) to provide increased
capacity in existing traffic corridors where required, pardy by promoting competition between
modes; and (c) to spread the transport network wider to encourage dispersal of economic activity
to less developed areas, and to achieve a more equitable and balanced pattern of economic and
social growth.
2.02   Policy Context: At appraisal the Sudan's transport netvork was considered inadequate for
the demand due to the declining operational efficiency of the railways and the high costs of
providing an adequate road system. The relative import:nce of transport was recognized in the
Government's Three Year Public Investment Program (FY 1984-86). Of the total L.S. 1650
million, L.S. 343 million (21%) was devoted to transport and communication. The country's
basic highway system consisted in 1982 of about 16,000 km roads, of which 2,245 km was
reported to be paved.
2.03   Highway investment planning was primarily the responsibility of the Roads and Bridges
Public Corporation (RBPC), which provided planning proposals based upon a series of studies
executed by international consultants. Planning was found to be fragmented and carried out by
foreign consultants with only limited participation by the RBPC staff, which had not developed
the required capability to make qualified judgement on economic feasibility of priority road
investments.
2.04  The RBPC was also responsible for maintenance of paved roads and bridges through its
regional managers. The maintenance organization was satisfactory, and was based on
recommendations made by a foreign consultant in 1979 in a study financed under the First



-2-
Highway Project but road maintenance had suffered from lack of adequately trained staff and low
availability of equipment. The RBPC had benefitted from provision of equipment and spares
thuough the same project as well as from a Japanese Credit, British ODA assistance, and
equipment left over fom completed road construction projects. But due to ill trained mechanics,
poor workshop management and insufficleot spare parts, many equipment items had become scrap
and the equipment availability was low.
2.05   The Bank's strategy in the sector was to concentrate on improving the use of existing
facilities, which in the highway sub-sector was identified as maintenance oriented projects.
This Highway rrojec4 was the third IDA funded project in the highway sub-sector in Sudan. The
First Highway Project (Credit 331-SU, US$ 7.0 million), approved in 1971, was satisactorily
completed in 1980. The Second Highway Project (Credit 882-SU, USS 41.0 million), approved in
1979, was completed in 1985 with considerable cost overruns.
3.    Proet Obiectives and Desitgion
3.01    roj Objectives:   The objectives of the Third Highway Project were to support
specific goals in Sudan's Three-Year Public Investment Program (FY 1984-86)n namely to:
(a)   initiate improved planning and execution of road maintenance works; and
(b)   carry out studies of high priority for main and feeder roads.
The project also aimed at improving transport planning and coordination and reorganizing
the highway administration in Sudan.
3.02  Prect De            Tbe TheTird Highway Project provided for;
(a)   assistance to RBPC consisting of: (i) technical assistance to improve workshop
organization and management, spare parts management and equipment rehabilitation,
strengthen planning and road maintenance capability, and implement the road maintenance
programn; (ii) training; (iii) procurement of workshop tools and equipment, road
maintenance equipment and spares and limited provisions for fuel ai d bitumen;
(b)   procurement of two ferries Lor he Nile crossing at Ed Dueim; and
(c)   other consulting services for a high.way organization and investment study
including the establishment and training of an RBPC pavement evaluation unit.
(d)   added through the credit amendment,April 4, 1989; repair of the Ed Dueim ferry
ramp and the Khor Shambat bridge, and the acquisition of road maintenance materials.
4.    Prolect Design and Organization.
4.01   Projc Desien; The Third Highway Project was designed to continue and to consolidate
the institutional efforts initiated under the first and second highway projects with emphasis on
maintenance. Modal coordination was emerging as an important issue in the transport sector, as
newly built or planned roads offered an alternative to the existing railway network.Thus,
coordination of transport planning, investments and operations was assuming importance and
required more careful consideration.
4.02   The technical assistance component of the Project was designed to strengthen the
organization and overall management of RBPC, through introduction of appropriate systems for
planning, budgeting, scheduling, directing and monitoring of road maintenance and minor
rehabilitation. The design was based primarily on the supply of 276 man-months of advisors and
instructors over a period of about three years.



-3.
4.03   The civil works component, including provision of two ferries across the Nile at Ed
Dueim, was designed to improve existing facilities and to provide access of the economically
important area across the river to the road from Jebel Aulia to Rabak.
4.04   Since the Initial Project Brief of June 1976, the project underwent a series of design
changes to reflect shifts in priorities as determined by nacro and sectoral developments; with
increasing emphasis on maintenance operations and institutional development at the expense of
construction works. Financing of construction of the New Hatfa Access road (96 km) was deleted
in the process. Although reallocation of the amount was readily accepted by GOS, this deletion
lessened the enthusiasm for elements of the project on the part of RBPC.
4.05   Although the late timing of the Bank's decision to delete the road construction component
was unfortunate, the new road construction had been a feature throughout the preparadon phase
and a decision was dependent on an analysis of the full data, which became available only during
appraisal. The progressive changes in the project design over an excessively long preparation
period led to reluctance on the part of RBPC to be fully committed to the large technical
assistance and institutional development components in the final project. Also the design of the
technical assistance to RBPC was not tailored to their ability to absorb the training offered, and
was not specific enough to ensure a close monitoring of the results. Especially given the concern
voiced by the Borrower during negotiations of the excessive scope of the component, a review at
that stage should have been considered by t*e Bank.
4.06   Proiect-Organization: The RBPC was responsible for implementation of the technical
assistance, the procurement of road maintenance equipment and spares, procurement of the two
ferries and for the civil works. The Project Preparation Unit (PPU) in the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, was responsible for commissioning and monitoring of the Highway
Organization and Investment S.sdy (HOIS), carried out by a Norwegian consultant in associadon
with a local consultant. The techni;al assistance services were assigned to a joint venture of two
consultants from Germany and France. The two ferries at Ed Dueim were designed and procured
by a German consultant, and were delivered by a shipyard in the Netherlands. The building of the
Khor Shambat bridge and the supply of shoulder materials to the Khartoum-Wad Medani-Gedaref
road were fully local operations. The bridge was designed by RBPC and constructed by a local
contractor.
4.07 Financing of the Project was provided by IDA, the government of the Netherlands, the
govermment of Norway and the Borrower as shown in Part III, Table 4. The Project was
negotiated in March 1983 on the basis of US$ 8.0 million co-financing from USAID, for project
components to be executed in the Southern Region. When the IDA proposal was delayed, USA]D
proceeded with a project in the South covering all requirements. Thus the IDA amount originally
earmarked for the South (USS 5.2 million), became available for reallocation.
4.08 The Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project (EFRP), identif.ad some urgently needed
road repairs. An Agreement was signed December 19, 1988 for IDA to act as Administrator of a
Dutch Grant amounting to USS 1,441,000 equivalent ( DFI 2.882 million) for financing of some
of these repairs, namely; rehabilitation of Khor Shambat bridge and the ferry embankment at Ed
Dueim and provision of shoulder material on the Khartoum-Wad Medani-Gedaref road. In
addition to the Dutch Grant for this purpose the Credit 1450-SU was amended to accommodate
part financing of the new components for civil works and maintenance materials by reallocadon of
funds from the unallocated category, totalling SDR 2,425,000. Amendments to the Credit and the
Dutch Grant Agreement were fiuther made on February 12, 1992, to enable the Borrower to



-4-
complete awarded contacts in an orderly fashion and to provide urgently needed maintenance
equipment and materials, retroactively for foreign expenditures from June 30, 1990. A similar
Agreement was signed on May 10, 1988 for IDA to act as Administrator of a Norwegian Grant
amounting to US$ 0.3 million equivalent (NOK 2.0 million) for financing of consultant services
under the Project. (Engineering of rehabilitation works on Khartoum - Port Sudan road on the
basis of recommendations contained in the Highway Organization and Investment Study (HOTS).)
4.09   The project concept and design and the institutional arrangements for implementation as
envisaged during project preparation were reasonable. In hindsight, and given the Borrower's
obvious lack of sense of ownership of the technical assistance component, the total scope of the
component and more clearly defined procedures for monitoring could have teen reconsidered.
5.    Project Imniementation.
5.01   Loan Effectiveness and lmDlementation: The Credit Agreement was signed on April 12,
1984, but was delayed as difficulties in obtaining the Borrower's legal opinion held up credit
effectiveness for about six months. The Credit closing was extended four times, with a total of
three and a half years, from June 30, 1989, to December 31, 1992. The first extension, dated
April 4, 1989, resulted in an extension of 18 months, up to December 31, 1990; and was needed
to accommodate the flood emergency repair works. A second extension of 12 months was agreed
on September 4, 1990. A third extension up to June 30, 1992 was agreed through a telex from
IDA dated January 28, 1992. Finally a fourth extension was granted in August 1992, bringing the
final closing date to December 31, 1992. Accommodation of the repair works after the flood in
1988 under the Project, was a major cause of the delayed closing date. Other delays were caused
by late preparation of procurement documents and slow award of contracts. Contracts for civil
works were completed within their stipulated contract period when awarded. The two ferries at
Ed Dueim were delivered and commissioned within the stipulated contract schedule of completion
time and cost. The polidcal unrest in Sudan during the implementation, culminadng in the military
coup in April 1985, also had an adverse effect on the administration of the Project. The risks of
the Project were correctly identified at appraisal and related to the problems of achieving all
objectives of the institutional component, because of difficult working conditions and possible lack
of motivation on the part of the Borrower's staff and leadership.
5.02 Equipment. Tools, Spare Parts. Fuel and Bitumen; The procurement of road maintenance
equipment was delayed, but the majority of contracts had been awarded before October 1985.
Due to delays in making awards RBPC was experiencing difficulties in obtaining extensions of the
validity period of some of the bids. All contracts for equipment and materials had been awarded
and goods received by the closing date. The training arrangements with Khartoum Polytechnic
Institute (KPI) were not implemented as envisaged under the project, and the component was
included in the Third Education Project. Training equipment for a total of US$ 200,00 was
procured through ILO in Geneva and taken over by KPI in October 1987. Delivery of survey
equipment was delayed in Port Sudan, because of problems with payment of port fees and general
lack of communication between the various govermnent agencies involved. The survey equipment
was finally located and cleared in Port Sudan in March 1988 and taken over by RBPC.
5.04   Two Ferries at Ed Dueim: The Borrower had received bids from suppliers of the two
ferries as part of the Second Highway Project. As funds were not sufficient under that credit, due
to cost over-run on civil works, these bids were returned, and eventually requested to be



-5 -
resubmitted. The design concept was reviewed and found unsuitable, as the ferries proposed were
too large to be operated at the actual crossings. A contract for redesign and construction
supervision was concluded between RBPC and a marine consultant in December 1985. IDA
approved the bidding documents after a lengthy process of commenting and redrafting.
Documents were issued to the same 10 shipyards that showed interest for tendering in 1984.
lTree bids were received. The first bid evaluation report from the consultant, prepared ;n lanuary
1987, was unacceptable to IDA. The Borrower was requested to ask the consultants for a revised
report. The consultant was not familiar with Bank procedures and the requirements for
documentation and evaluation, which caused long delays. The contract for delivery of two ferries
was awarded to a Dutch shipyard and signed in November 1987. The ferries were pre-assembled
to the extent possible in the Netherlands and the units were ready for shipment in June 1988.
Assembly in the RTC yard in Khartoum started in January 1989, and the launching took place on
March 24, 1989. Successful trials on the Nile were made on April 10, 1989, after which the
ferries were sailed to Ed Dueim for handing over on April 14, 1989. The official opening of the
ferry service was held on May 18, 1989 attended by the Minister for Public Works and Housing.
After expiry of the maintenance period on April 19, 1990, the White Nile Governor in Ed Dueim
was intended to become the official owner of the ferries, using RTC seconded staff for the iritial
period in the actual running and maintenance of the service. The Bank supervision missior. in
May 1989 pointed out faults with the ferries, which had been noted before but not rectified, and
also to some additional faults which had occurred. During the Bank mission in Feb/March 1992,
it was agreed that major repairs were needed on the two ferries, and to the causeway that had
been badly damaged by the river and by the ferries using the lee sideof the causeway that did not
have a concrete ramp. An addendum to the contract with the shipyard was negotiated and
approved by IDA in March 1992, including provision for spares , materials and mobile
workshop- stores facilities, as well as technical assistance to assist GOS staff during repair work.
The work included in the addendum was completed in April, 1993.
5.05   TechnicW  Assistance to RBPC Under the Project, a technical assistance tearn, provided
by a joint venture of two consultants; assisted RBPC to strengthen its management of equipment
use and maintenance operations. A contract between RBPC and the joint venture consultant was
signed in August 1986 and the Team Leader arrived in Khartoum in September 1986, about one
year late compared to the appraisal estimate. The technical assistance covered three areas; (i) road
maintenance, (ii) workshop management, and (iii) transport planning. ne 19-member team
comprised; I Road Maintenance Engineer, 2 Training Specialists, 2 Civil Eng. Instructors, 3 .
Technical Instructors, 1 equipment Instructor, I Cost Accountant, I Workshop Mechanical
Engineer, 6 Spare Parts Specialists/Mechanics and 2 Transport Planners. At the end of the first
half of 1987, fifteen of the team members had been mobilized. Implementation effectiveness was
hampered due to difficulties related to; the consultants inability to provide experts acceptable to
the Client; lack of cohesion within the team itself; problem with language in the lower level on-
the-job training; delay on the client's part to provide offices, houses and other support; delays in
procuring spare parts and equipment which was required for training purposes; lack of head office
support to the technical assistance team; and a general lack of appreciation within the RBPC of
the component itself. To avoid disruption of the ongoing program and arrival of equipment, the
services of the Team Leader, two Road Technicians and the Economist/Planner were extended by
6 months each, bringing the total input to 285 person months.
5.06   Highwa Investment and Organization Study; The Study was prepared over a period of
one and a half year, and was provided by a foreign firm of consultants in association with a local
consultant. The issues addressed in the Study included recommendations for improvement of the
highway administration, review and recommendations on specific improvements to transport



planning, axle load control, tariff and user charge policies and a highway investment program up
to 1998. Invitation for proposals was extended to six shordisted consultants in May 1985, wih
closing date for proposals June 15, 1985. The draft final report was submitted on time in
December 1986. The final report of the study was delayed due to late comments by the PPU and
the time needed by the consultant to take account of the substantial comments given by both the
Bank and the client. As a result of the study, 4 sets of mobile weighbridges were flnanced under
the Credit to initiate enforcement of the new law on vehicle weight restrictions. The pavement
investigations on the Khartoum - Port Sudan road carried out under the study confirned excessive
axle loads on some heavy vehicles. The Bank voiced deep concern about the intolerable situation
of overloading and the consequences on a sustained level of service. The contract with the
consultant was extezided, financed from the Norwegian Grant, to provide for detailed engineeri .g
services for rehabilitation of the Gedaref to Port Sudan section of the Khartoum - Port Sudan
road.
5.07   Civil Works; The civil works component comprised two contracts that were prepared and
implemented fully using local resources. One contract was awarded for; (i) Delivery and placing
of protection stone on the Ed Dueim Ferry causeway, and (ii) Supply of Rip Rap stones and
gravel for road maintenance work on the Khartoum-Wad Medani-Gedaref road; and one was
awarded for rehabilitation of the Khor Shambat Bridge. Detailed engineering for the bridge
rehabilitation was carried out by RBPC's own staff. The contract was awarded to a local
contractor, essentially a small building contractor. The contract period was 6 months. The bridge
contract was satisfactorily completed on July 15, 1991, four weeks ahead of schedule, and was
officially opened to traffic on August 15, 1991.
5.08   Proiect Costs: The estimated cost of the Third Highway Project at appraisal was US$ 17.1
miMon as shown in Table 3 in Part I1I, and to be financed by IDA and the Borrower. ITe total
Project costs, including financing from the Dutch Grant and the Norwegian Grant was US$ 21.59
million equivalent.
5.09  Disburement: The estimated and actual disbursements of Credit 1450-SU are given in
Table 4 and Figure 1 in Part III.The disbursements were slow due to delays in implementation of
the project. The final payment was made January 15, 1993. when the undisbursed balance of SDR
1.832 was canceled. The total disbursement under the Project, including Credit 1450-SU, the
Dutch Grant and the Norwegian Grant was SDR 14,957 million.
6.    Project Results
6.01 rioect gbiectives: The Project successfully achieved the defined roriect objectives; of
initiating improved planning arid execution of road maintenance; and also successfully completed
the identified studies. The technical assistance to RBPC did not achieve all its objectives due to
difficult working conditions, inadequate head office support, inadequate qualifications on the part
of some of the team members and over optimistic expectations in the program design. Training of
the RBPC staff was also not fully effective but provided valuable training to store supervisors in
the field. It is still too early to quantify the full impact of the project, although some effect is
-already apparent on the RBPC as an institution through implementation of organizational changes
recommended in the HOIS . The continuous dialogue with the Borrower on important
management issues, like level of maintenance funding and control of vehicle overloading, was
facilitated through the implementation of the project, and had an impact on the level of service.



-7-
6.02   Physical &esults:1he physical targets of the Project were achieved substantially as
planned. The consulting services; technical assistance for RBPC and the highway Investment and
organization study for PPU, were procured and provided in full. About 300 pieces of equipment
were rehabilitated in the workshop at "Kilo 10" through the equipment rehabilitation program
initiated through the technical assistance to RBPC. This represer.s about 15% of the 2000 pieces
that were considered suitable for rehabilitation. Another 300 pieces of equipment are expected to
be rehabilitated by the end of 1993. The technical assistance component further initiated systems
for improved management of maintenance operations and minor rehabilitation wnrks. 'he Khof
Shambat bridge was successfully completed. The shoulders on the Khartoum-Wad Medani-
Gedaref road were properly reinstated, arresting further serious deterioration. The two ferries at
Ed Dueim provided access of the economically important area across the river to the road from
Jebel Aulia to Rabak.
6.03   Pect Benwe    The economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated by the Bank at
appraisal separately for the Road Maintenance component and the two ferries at Ed Dueim; (i)
The ERR for the maintenance component was calculated at 154%. The calculadon was based on.
an assessment of the total savings in vehicle operating costs (voc) from avoidance of doubling of
surface roughness of paved roads over a period of seven years. The savings were then related to
the estimated current and future traffic volumes, and translated into economic benefit streams -
which in turn were compared with the aggregate cost of maintenance. (ii) The ERR for the ferry
operation at Ed Dueim was estimated at over 100%. It was based on an estimate of the savings in
(voc) because of the ferry, compared to vehicle traffic through the desert over 158 km on the
west bank of the Nile rather than using the Jebel Aulia - Ed Dueim road over the same distance
on the east bank.
6.04 The recalculation of EER, included in Annex 1, was done using the same method as at the
time of appraisal, but with current traffic levels. It was found that both the Road Maintenance
Program and the investment in the two ferries at Ed Dueim would yield satisfactory rates of
return, although lower than estimated at appraisal.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.01 The operation of the two ferries across the Nile at Ed Dueim is expected to have an
acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic life. Lack of maintenance which was
noticed towards the end of the project, may adversely affect the outcome. Steps were taken to
reduce this risk by training of personnel and provision of most needed spares and maintenance
facilities. The achievements made in initiating improved planning within RBPC may be sustained
through follow up in subsequent projects in the highway sub-sector, such as the ongoing
Khartoum-Port Sudan Rehabilitation Project. At the time of preparing the PCR, the disbursement
of IDA Credits in Sudan were suspended. A long disrupdon of Bank involvement in the sub-
sector will reduce the likelihood that these achievement are sustained.
8.    Bank Perfonnance
8.01 Preparation of the Project took unusually long time, from 1976 to 1984, and required nine
missions, including appraisal. The Bank's supervision efforts did not meet with the Bank's
guidelines of two missions per year, as it included fifteen missions fielded over about nine years..
The Bank's supervision during the period from 1988 through 1991 was less than adequate, as only
one mission per year was provided. The missions were appropriately staffed and provided good
staff continuity, with the same Task Manager responsible throughout the implementation period,



- 8 -
apart from nine months in 1992. The main strength of the Bank's performance was the positive
dialogue and relations established with the Borrower during implementation, which enabled
needed amendments to be made and the successful use of RBPC's own and private sector
resources for execution of civil works. The Bank supervision staff contributed to enhance
implementation of the Project through supportive working relations and professional advice. Early
attention to the inadequacy of earlier desigp of the ferries at Ed Dueim, made the required review
and modifications of design possible.
8.02   The relations between the Bank supervision and the Borrower improved gradually over the
implementation period. The Borrower's project management also improved through appointment
of a project coordinator in RBPC. The trust established between the Bank and the Borrower led to
successful implementation of some of the civil works component by use of exclusively local
resources for design and construction.
8.03   Lessons: One major lesson from implementation of this project was that technical
assistance for institutional building needs to be specific and adapted to the absorptive capacity of
the recipient institution. Also, that the Bank should be careful in including technical assistance as
a major component of a project (27%) when it is not fully appreciated by the Borrower. The
evidenced lack of sense of ownership experienced during implementation, was a reflection of this
weakness.
8.04   Negotiations of the Credit were delayed for about one year, to a large extent in order to
reach an agreement on the issue of fuel prices, which reflects both the importance attached to it
by the Bank and the sensitivity of it on the part of the Borrower. The government eventually
carried out a review of transport cost, as called for in the agreement, and the fuel prices were
adjusted. However, no mechanism was instituted by the Borrower to adjust fuel prices in step
with the high rate of domestic inflation that ensued. In hindsight the lesson is that monitoring of
policy issues which carry substantial implications on the country's economy can be started through
specific investment project covenants, but need to be reinforced through the Bank's dialogue with
the government on macro economic matters.
8.05   The SAR provided a useful framework for monitoring during project implementation.
However, major changes made to the project during the unusually long preparation period, were
not fully reflected in the SAR. The Bank made appropriate use of the grants extended as co-
financing by the Dutch and the Norwegian governments.
9.    Borrower Performance.
9.01   The Borrower's performance was consistently given fairly low ratings by the Bank staff
during implementation, indicating 'moderate problems" (2); and "major problems" (3); attributed
to managerial weaknesses. The Borrower's performance improved toward the end of the project.
The procurement of urgently needed equipment, materials and supplies for road maintenance, and
comnpletion of civil works on Ed Dueim ferries ramps and protection of road shoulders were
carried out in a satisfactory manner.
9.02   One exogenous factor that had an effect also on project management and the sustainability
of the institutional building efforts extended, was the continuous worsening situation in respect of
salaries and benefits for the personnel working in the Borrower's institutions. This was caused by
the high rate of inflation during implementation of the project. Many of the most experienced staff
of RBPC left the service and in general there was a high turnover of professional staff.



9-
10.   Consulting Services
10.01 As more than one quarter of the original project was related to technical assistance, the
assignnrents for consulting services played an important part of the project.
10.02 Technical assistance provided to the RBPC met with numerous problems during
implementation and did not fully achieve its objectives. The consultant joint venture was effective
in mobilizing the relatively large number of staff, but failed to provide the .equired type of
personnel in a timely manner and to the full satisfaction of the Borrower.
10.03 The Highway Organization and Investment study for PPU was satisfactorily completed.
Following review and extensive comments both by the Bank and the Borrower, the final version
of the study provided sound and valuable recommendations for improvement of the organization
and management of RBPC, as well as vehicle regulations and axle load control.
10.04 The consultant for the design and procurement services of the two ferries at Ed Dueim
was not sufficiently familiar with Bank procurement procedures and bid evaluat.ons. This caused
considerable delay in commissioning of the ferries.



- 10-
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
Third Highway I.D.A Credit No. 1450-Su
and
Related Dutch Grant (Trust Fund No. 052493-Su-EFRP)
EARTU
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSP-ECTVE
(A) Evaluation of Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
1. Major Strengths and Weaknesses:
Bank staff contributed to the success of the project through supportive working relationships
and professional advice. The Supervision Missions that have visited Sudan to review with
Government Officials the progress made on the various project components, were
professionally qualified in Highway Engineering. Consequently, implementation problems
and, sortmetimes, allowable modifications that were strongly needed to promote progress of the
works, were manifested to be easily solved and speedly approved.
However, some shortcomings were evident:
I-    At the early stage of the project it had been recognized that the length of interval between one
Supervision Mission and the other, was excessive (e.g. August, 1991 Mission was preceeded
by February 1990 Mission). Due to the effectiveness of the visits, RBPC recommended to
the Bank to see frequent Missions during the remaining life-time of the project. As a matter
of fact, the Bank's concurrence and positive reaction in accelerating the number of
consistently interim follow-up visits had its impact In Improving the implementation rate to a
large extent. This could be clearly indicated by comparison between time lapsed in
implementing Category (1) during which theBank fielded unfrequent and less Supervision
Missions - and the higher rate noticed in inplementation of Categories It, m and IV of the
project Components during which more frequent visits were made.



-11 -
II-    Slow disbursements process (either through Direct procedure of issuance of Special
Commitunents) by the time when payments to beneficiaries were effected through tie ank
Regional Office in Nairobi (Kenya). A concrete example proving such delays were the civil
works Contractors and Suppliers (namely: TOMAK Engineering Co. (Khor Shambat-Bridge
Contractor), Fadul Hassan (Gravels supplier) and Seletat Quarry Co. (Dueim Ramp
Protection) who by the time they had executed more than half of the works, they did not
receive any payments from the Bank.
111-   Delay in extending the closing date for the Dutch Grant (IDA was the Administrator of the
Grant).
IV-  Procurement restrictions that accompanied our requests to utilize the remaining uncommitted
balances from the proceeds of the Credit and its related Dutch grant. Only volume increases
up to a certain ceil were approved from the ongoing procurement packages instead of full
utilization. Consequently, about USD 2 million were cancelled by the Bank. It was true that
the remaining balances were attributed to the following factors:
1- Gains from SDR exchange rate
2- Gains from LS devaluation (whenever IMA was financing local costs).
But we believe from the economic viewpoint such gains should be considered as integral part
of the credit value.
2.    Lessons Learned:
a)    Accessibility of the Bank Missions to the respective pertinent Government Authorities (e.g
Directorate of Planning, National Reconstruction Implementation Unit (NRIU)...etc) used to
be forcefuxl in giving higher priority and consideration to the project requirements (such as
allocation of local funds, issuance of financial approvals, customs exemption etc..). This
element helped in speeding up preparation and procurement action.
b)    Unity of command and co-ordinaton during the phase of implementation: at the beginning,
the project components were administered by five different Directorates within RBPC,
namely:-
- Maintenance
- Planning and Research
- Mechanical
- Finance
- Stores
Due to lack of co-ordination between these departnents, the implementadon rate was slow.
The abscence of a body like a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which was not forseen in
the Credit stream, made it inconvenient and even impractical to achieve the project objectives
within the programmed schedule. Upon recognition of this unanticipated hindering factor, the
supervision mission suggested the appointment of a project co-ordinator authorized by
RBPCfD.G. to harmonize the different activities into one package whenever possible. RBPC



^ 12 -
immediately adopted the Bank's proposal and the project co-ordinator was appointed. Merits
of this action were:
- Unity of command was attained,
- Minimization of costs was reached by sorting out and grouping of similar needs of the
various components through package procurement.
- Avoidance of cost over-runs; awareness of the exact funds allocated during the co-
ordination process, for each cost item had prevented over-expenditures.
- Improved and developed the sequence of Reporting.
c)    Team-work concept resulted in self-reliance:
The team work that featured the relationship between the Supervision Missions and the
relevant executing agency's personnel was one of the major elements towards the satisfactory
implementation of the project components. This close contacts between the team members,
created a sort of confidence in Sudanese capability to carry out some of the project works
without the involvement of foreign Contractor and Consultants. Intiation of the Bank to
execute Khor Shambat Bridge by a local building Contractor (TOMAK Engineering Co.)
according to a design drawn by RBPC staff was the outcome of this relationship. This trial
proved to be successful and the Contract was substantially complete on July 1991 four weeks
ahead of contractual completion date.
B) Borrower's Performance and Lessons Learned:
1-    Major Strengths and Weaknesses:
Except for some delays in reporting to the Bank in accorance with the time schedule stipulated
in the Credit Agreement (such as quarterly Reports and Audited Accounts); the Borrowers
performance, in our opinion, was satisfactory. During project preparation and appraisal;
RBPC provided all the necessary support needed. However; some weaknesses had been
conceived in the Borrower's performance. These can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Intially, co-ordination was not efficiently carried out. Later on this task was assigned
to the Director of Maintenance (being the most concerned in the project) who proved
as reported by the Mission to be more effective.
(b)   Implementation of Category IV (New Components - FLOOD) manifested an apparent
delay. TIis component was co-financed from the proceeds of savings in IDA credit
and the Dutch Grant to accomodate the additional works in the road sector under the
Emergency Flood Reconstruction Programme (EFRP). Administration of this part of
the Credit was, therefore, transferred to the National Reconstruction Implementation
Unit (NRIU). Discontinuity of the former administration resulted, in distorting the
sequence of actions and caused delay in the implementation due to lack of project
awareness by the NRIU. This could be clearly evidenced by the abnormal delay in
approving entidements of the civil works contractors.
(c)    Khartoum Polytechnic Institute failed to fulfil its role in practical training; although
the required survey and laboratory equipment were procured and handed over as
scheduled.



- 13 -
2.    Lessons Learned:
(a)    RBPC succeeded to be self reliance in preparing the advance arrangements in
compliance with the Bank guidelines and procedures pertinent to (aC>), sole sourc
procurement and Limited Quotations, whenever applicable, without the assiuance of
any foreign Consultant or procurement agents as used to be the case in prvious
procurements made under the Bank Crdits or other donors.
(b)   RBPC capability was evidenced by the efficient constuction supervision of Khor
Shambat Bridge.
(c)    Although the size of the Bank Credit, in money terms, was small as compated with
other sizable projects, but still we believe its economic returns as well as the valuable
practical experiences gained by RBPC from the high professionalism monitoring the
implementation of the project components were more adequate. Such know-how will
have its impact in upgrading RBPC or onal, Technical and administtive
capabilities to be envisaged in executing road network maintenance programmes.
(d)   Instalation of computers facilitated availability of desired data for proper planning and
programming of maintance activities.
C-    Proiect Relationship:
Bank reladonship with the Execudng Agency and other concerned authorid3s was excellent.
An addidonal contributing factor that had promoted the implementation standard, was the high
level of professionalism of all
parties involved.
D-    Consulting Services:
Role, performance level and implications of Involvement:
The Consultancy services as performed by the two companies; J.V. RRI/BCEOM and
NORCONSULT for Technical Assistant and HOTS respectively, were satisfictory. Their
inputs resulted in the following achievement:
1.    Improvement in planning and execution systems of Road Maintenance Programmes.
2.    Introduction of Cost Accounting System.
3.    Improvement of Transport Planning.
4.    Improvement of Workshop Organization.
5.    Co-ordination and Reorganization of Highway Administration.
6.    Computerization of data processing.
7.    Instalation of Radio Coitamunicadons System.



- 14 -
Apart fom these strengths, comes some weaknesses that were debugged fom the Consultants
performance:
1)    Training component was wOt handled satisfactorily. Unticipated obstacles hindered
its progress. On-job training was distorted due to late arrival of spare parts ordered
for rehabilitation of machinery and equipment (TPU). Delay in preparing the
shopping lists, by the Consultants, shared in this distortion.
2)    Lack of continuity of some expatriates. Many changes and replacements in the
Technical Assistance Team members took place.
However, despite these weaknesses, nobody can deny the Consultancy services input in
strengthing RBPC capabilities.



- 15 -
SUDAN
THfIRD HIGPYPROJCIw
(:KGdit II=- U)
PRQE:CT S:QMZLL RBT
PART III: STAIISllCAL INFOR,ZQO
Table l:           Ban Rela   Credits
Avpp,    1A                  USD
19S6          Ut            39.0        F,r ;Aiwv PrLjcqiimo f dW octtwivsd                      Cmv&w
SU                        rolUag stock. wuionof ftadhy line.  I    tand  a
uxaioa  of Pott Suda. aad itpovwn_tof tver UvpOtL 
1965          t4m 40.       31.0         Second Roiwv Pmoi*Mt Pntauofb_           u Wemk oa Uia  CoImplde4
SU                        stock. inprovetaof siver tpMon pro mttof eq_pset
aNW  db mof  facilte atPat,Sudu.
1972          Cte&3 31-    7.0           F^t HiLMEMt riect: Tocbnkl a - ianec to RBPC, fmsbUq   Compkxt
SU            dWt and detie doedp of prority road ptojC; spe  pm
SYI eqipet for h,wy  muonc and wYlii _DDmw
md st akf     to Mwisy of Tnnw
1974          Crmdit457.    24.0         3nivd R^ih   Poie: Faig of SRC invem_uptOgtwtup    Coalee
i ~~~~Su                              to 1973; eupnt o    adma us_  I for die RTC;
i ~~~~~~~~~~~ptcisv_mt fowr   fut An=aiport developmeutand trann
of ftff at tbAudkor Gmcol.
1976          Credit 614-    4.0         Tcchnic l Assisuiec Poicet: Tecbcll asitace to inceuc   Compbud
SU                        capacif to execute ptWiDVeeJt work iA ag1 semao.
1976          La            20.0         Domestic Aviation Propet. Coaozua of two mcgiong po.wt  Compktcd
1267r-SU                  and tcchniel cekuf to CAD.
Credit 643-    9.0
SUI
1977          Cndit 727-    S.0          Founth Rsihav P_roba: Compbtlon of tsa whool. track     Coptidc
SU                        upgr ding. proviso of locmotives cd equqpmer
tLo 1467,    12.0
T-SU
1973          Cmdt 78t-   20.0           Pon Pr*  Inccm phya   caciy. toPMOR ptiuevity    Cotcd
SU                        and m  .gemnt ctticeacy of Port Sudm
1979          C"ldkM3.    41.0           Second Hijthwtv Proict:1 Coarutctioa of lebd Aulio-Ed Dudsm    Coompkeu
SU                        asd teo        asisace to tbe Rood  tewa    in Sendw
Suan.
1990          Crotk 200     82.2         KPSRP Rdsabiiito of* Mclawto - PorttSudan ra.            uowing
SU



- 16 -
Table 2.     Proiegt llm
Dat                Date                Date
Item                      Planned             Revised            Actual
-     Identification                                                          02/76
-     Preparadon                                                              08/82
-     Appraisal MissIon                                                       10/82
-     Credit Negotiations                                                     03/83
Board Approval                                                          03/84
Credit Signature                                                        04/84
-     Credit Effectiveness                                                    10/84
-      2Credit ClosIng                 06/89                                  12192
12/91
06/92              12/92
Credit Completion                                                       12/92



- 17 -
Table 3.       Proect Costs
(USS million)
ITEM                               Est.    Cost              Actal  Cost
__ __ __ ____  Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Forein   Total
I. 6SSISTANCE TO-RBPC
A. Technical Assistance                    0.28     2.07     2.35     0.20    4.59      4.79
B. Training                                                           0.30    0.20
(i)  Instuors                            0.12    0.88       1.00
(u) Scholaships at KurT                  0.18
(iii) Training aid and eqttipment for KP          0.14     0.14
(iv) Rd. Mait. Equipment and Spares for TPU       0.86     0.86
(v)  Fuel for TPU                                 0.18     0.18
C. Road Maint. Equipment and Spares                 2.62     2.62             3.90      3.90
D. Workshop Equipaent and Tools                     0.22     0.22
E. Spares for Equipment Rehabilitation              2.34     2.34             5.14      5.14
F. Bitumen                                          0.57     0.57
SUBTOTAL I                               0.58    9.88      10.46    0.50    13.32    13.83
II. FEIIRIE
A. Constuction                             0.23    2.00      2.23     0.54    2.62      3.16
B. Rehabilitation                                                             0.42      0.42
SUBTOTAL 11                              0.23     2.00     2.23     0.54    3.04      3.58
II.QTMER CONSULTING SERVICES
A. Highway Ornisation and Investment Study  0.09    0.75     0.84    0.10    1.00       1.10
B. Rehabilitation Design, Port Sudan Road                                     0.30     0.30
SUBTOTAL III                             0.09    0.75      0.84    0.10    1.30       1.40
IV. CIVIL WORKS
A. Ed Dueim Ferry Ramp Protection                   .
B. Khor Shambat Bridge
SUBTOTAL IV                                                         1.17    1.41     2.58
V. ROAD MAJINTENACE MATERIALS                                         0.20             0.20
BASE COST (EST. 1983)                     0.90    12.63     13.53
VI. CONTIMGENCIES
A. Physical (10% I and IM)                 0.05     1.06     1.11
B. Price                                   0.19    2.31      2.50
SUBTOTAL VI                              0.24    3.37      3.61
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       1.14    16.00     17.14   2.52    19.07    21.59
'        1.|_1   -'    __    ...   _                 ,  ,.



- 18 ^
Table 4.                Proiect Finaing
Planned          Including     Including     Fuial
(Credit 1450 SU)  Amendtnents   Amendments
Agreemeat        1 up to       2 up to
(SDR '000)       04/89         02/92         (StR '000)
(SDR '000)   (SDR '000)
lRxvendjtures
Catefowns
1. Equipment. Tools, Spare Pats. Fuel and  6,700           6,700         6,100          6,211
Bitumen
2. Two Fernies                            1,950             1,950        2,500          2.501
3. Consultant Services
(a) for RBPC;                          2,860             2,860         3,370         3,427
(b) for PPU:                           730               730          8S4            854
4/(6). Unallocated                        3 ,60            835           350
(4) Civil Works                                             195          1,900          675
(5) Road Maintenance Materials                             2,230         426            Nil
SUBTOTAL IDA FINANCING                  15,500            15,00       15,500         13,668
(Amount Canceled as of 01/15/93)                                                        (1,832)
THE DUTCH GRANT
(DFI 2.882 mill)
1. Equipmnent, Tools and Spare Parts                                     232           276
(4) Civil Works                                                          623            745
(5) Road Maintenance Materials                                           222
SUBTOTAL DUTCH GRANT                                                   1,067          1,021
(Amount Canceled as of 04J2U/93)                                                        (46)
THE NORWEGIAN GRANT
(NOK 2.0 mill)
3. Consultant's Snrvices                                                 222
GOVERNMEN
844               44           844           1,037
16,344           16,344        17,633        15,948
1/     ReallOCatioS within Credit 1450-SU, included; (i new Categoy (4) CivU WOr*S was added, Khor Shambat
Bridge and rep4:r of Ed Dudim ferry ramp, amount SDR 195,000; (U,l new Category (5) Road MaintanCe
Materials", amoun  2,230,000; and (ii) Caxegory ((4) beame Categos y (6).
2/     Reallocations within Credit 1450-SU and addtion of Dutch Grant and Norwegan GrauL



- 19 -
Table S.             Allocaton of Credit Proceeds
(SDR)
CATE-   DESCRIPTION                   AMOUNT       AMOUNT         AMOUNT
GORY                                DISBURSED   DISBURSED    DISBURSED
IN CREDIT  DUTCH GR.       NORW.GR.
_______SD R SDR,(EST)    SDR. (ES)
I       Equipmexnt, Tools, Spare Patts,    6,210,902.98  275,810
Fuel and Bitumen
2       TWO ermae                   2.500,473.9S
3       Consultant's Services
(A) For RBPC                3,426,939.12
(B) For PPU                  854,151.23                    222,000
4       Civil Works                   675,413.85      745,332
5       Road Maintenance Matenals          None
TOTAL DISBURSED            13,667.845.13   1,021,142       222,000
AMOUNT CANCELLED            1,832,154.87      46.265
TOTAL AMOUNT               1S,500.000.00    1,067,407      222,000
CREDIT/GRANTS
Figure 1.     Disbursement
SUDAN-CR.1450-SU AND GRANTS
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
USS MILUON
15 _    _4_Tt 230; (F :;it ;_  4 5
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994
FY. AND QUARTERS
[-SAR + GRANTS * ACTUAL



- 20 -
Table 6               Schedule of Credit   p                   -
am Tint  D5//  et 11.42.20
vP - AICA
ARICA*  O=a    CIUMII   ti
22U46@  1mVAThJcW    PUTIOS OIV
S"
Di b ali In"Moom
MUS. S MILUM8)
(LOA Cats of 4/30/   HNitS Deta Ss of 05369)
........ ......................_......
Prokett 35U09AC16   * NtcnAvS tti                  Ifa.etIw DOW   10/12/8
provwd  A~ts    16.00                         C.wltatla':          .00
Formity
filt      ActMI AN. Prot#It #M. R#s.            kat. Orlgltt At. Svsad  Aet.
yowu     Ceativl  CwurLtiv. o i.,.tFo,ve.    cuwl.ttv.   Ouatai
....... .... ........ . .   ............ ................ ............ ................ .... .... fi......... .... 
9U4
up., 1983
Jit, 1964
195
-a, 1984                        .20                          .05
0, 1984                       .40                          .10
Mar, 95                        1.00                         1.0
Jun, 1965                      1.e0                         1.97
1986
Sop, 1985S                     3.34                         3.03
Dee, 1915         .02          2.88                         4.09
fur, '98          .03          3.84                         5.S
a,  18            .27          4.80                         6.Z4
1987
Sao. 1966         .60          3.76                         7.33
0.c, 194         1.43          6.72                         8.43
Mar, 198?        1.57          7.68                         9.91
Jun. 1987        1.6           8."                         10.60
S    ip 1987     2.31          9.38                        11.60
oC  198w         2.65          9.92                        12A0
Map, 198         3.08         10.88                        13.20
jun, 1988        5.26         11.84                        14.10
1989
srp  1i9t        7.26         12.48                        15.00
Oa, 1988        11.33          13.12                       16.00
Mr, 19          11.87         13.4                         16.00
Jun, 199        13.55          3.76                        86.00
199
Sp, 1989        14.1          14.40
Dec, 1989       14.19         1s.04
mar, 1990       14.62         IS.36
Jun, 1990      1t4.90         15.68
1991
SP, 199         14.91         15.84
cc, 190         15.20         16.00
Mer, 1991       15.57         16.00
Jun. 1991       15.79         1600
1992
Sop, 1991       16.46         16.00         17.17                        17.17
0cc, 1991       17.16         16.00         17.t7                        17.17
Nar, 1992       17.T9         16.00         17T.                         17.75
Ju, 19t2        17.60         16.00         18.33                        18.3
1993
iWp, 1992       17.73                       20.16                        19.33
D.c. 192        17.90                                                    19.33
He, 1993S      1i8o                                                      19.35
Jun, 1993                                                               19.33
1994
Sap, 993                                                                 |1



e-   W   @ -    -   -         -                 -        =                     q~~~i- ~~~
8 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~imB   Bg8B8,  .,  .
.  a                     .       ,           .,           .
S.          ' :1                                    
t                                                                     _ e
w                               00000O00000"'00O0                      I
g a



- 22 -
Table 8.                Prject ulSmgntaton
PROJECT COMPONENT                                   Planned Completion   A.tu.l  Months
At Appraisal        Completion        of Delay
06188               12/92             54
Procurement of: Equipment. Tools. Spare Parts, Fuel and
Bitumen
Two Ferries; Prcurement and Commissioning                               04/89
Consultant's Services
(A) Technical Assiaance for RBPC                06J88               02/90             20
(B) Highway Organization and 1nvestment Study for    07186          07/87             12
PPU
Civil Works;
Khor Shambat Bridge                            0891       1/      07/91             -1
Faey Ramps at Ed Dueim
Supply of Road Maintenance Materials
1/     Included in Credit Amendment of 04/89



- 23 -
Table 9.
CompTlance with Credit Covenants
The Borrower shall farmish to
Covenant                             IDA, not lter thaa nine months         Section 3.07
after the end of the fiscal year, an
The Borrower shall employ             audit report on tOm project
consultants whose quasiftcations      accounts.
are satisfctory to IDA.
The Borrower shall (a) insure                                               Soetion 4.01
inported goods and (b) ensure that   Rafe
atl proceeds are used exclusively
for the purpose of the Project.
Section 3.02
The Borrower shall furnish IDA
with plans, specifications reports
and contract documents for the
Projet. He shall maintain records    Section 3.03                           Status of Comoliance
and procedures adequate to
monitor the Project. He shatl                                               Complied with
eable the Asweiation
representative t examine the goods
and services out of the proceeds of   Section 3.04
the Credit. The Borrower shail                                              Complied with
furthermore, on a quaterly basis
within 30 days of the calendar
quarter concerned, provide aU
such information as the
Association shall reasonably                                                Complied with
request concerning the Project.
The Borrower shall prepare a
Project Completion Report not
later than six months after the
Closing Date.
The Borrower shalt, not later than
June 30, 1987, implement the
agreed improved organization plan
for RBPC. The Borrower shall         Section 3.04 (d)
also, by July 1, 1986, revise the
formate for the annual estimates of
RBPC expenditures and, by July 1,
1986, establish with RBPC a
Training Production Unit.             Section 3.06
Complied with
The Borrower shall, through the
Khartoum Polytechnic, offer
annually, ten places to RBPC in
the three-year highway technical
course.



- 24 -
Not yet. The covenant caried
forward to Credit 2070-SU,
KPRP.
Program revised
Prepared by Auditor General up to
90/91.
The Borrower shall: (i) undertake
a Trnsporttion Cost Review on
terms and conditions satisfactory to  Scdtion 4.02
the Association and complete this
review not later ftan December                                              Study completd. Now fue prices
31. 1984, or such other datm as the                                        introduced in October, 1987. Rates
Association may agre; and (ii)                                              may need updating due to tapid
based on the findings of this                                              increase in domestic rate of
review and the diseussions with the                                        inlation.
Associaion, maintain appropriate
fuel prices.
The Borrower shaU cause its
highway system to be adequately
maintained, and shaU provide          Secdon 4.03
promptly as needed the funds,
facilities, services and other                                              Not complied with. A three year-
resources required for such                                                 year Railway Investment Program
maintenance. By November 30 of                                              is being coordinated with MlA
each year, the Borrower shall                                               under a separate project
submit to the Association for its
approval, the maintenance budgot
requirement and physical tret of
RBPC for tle following calendar
year and, at the same time,
proposals for the implementation
of its three-year investment plan.
Upon receipt of the Association's
approval, the Borrower shall
release funds to RBPC in
accordance with such approved
requirements and targets and begin
the implementation of such
proposals. By June 30, 1986, the
Borrower shall adopt a coordinated
highway and railway investment
program for the following three-
year period.
The Borrower shall, by January 1,
1987, take measures satisfactory to
the Associalion for the regulation    Secdon 4.04
of vehicle dimensions and axk
loads. He shall also take adequate                                          Not complied with as yet GOS
action to enforce such measurs.                                             has caried out k pilot project for
control of axde loads. The
covenant has bees carried forward
to KPRP. Ctedk 2070-SU.



- 25 -
Annex 1
Page I of 3
Reassessment of Costs and Benefits
1.    Maintenance Program
For ease of reference, the assessment made In the SAR, Annex 13, is appended below:
"The following assumptions were made in calculadng the ERR on the road maintenance
program:
1.    The total freight traffic which was established at 5:24 billion tops km in 1980, will
continue to grow at 5% p.a.
2.    The above traffic translates into 600-650 million freight vehicle km taking account of the
approximate 100:13 ratio of hed3ium of heavy trucks in Sudan.
3.    Approximately 75 million gallons of gasoline were consumed in Sudan in 1981, in the
transport sector and presumably largely by passenger vehicles. Tnis can be translated into a
minimum 2,000 million passenger vehicle km per annum. This is also assumed to grow at 5%
p.a.
4.    The main benefit on paved roads - essentially the network under RBPC control is the
avoidance of an approximate doubling of surface roughness due to potholes, broken pavement
edges etc from 2,000 to 4,000 over about seven years, the project benefit being proportional in
the ratio 4/7.
5.    The average vehicle operating cost (voc) savings from avoidance of paved roads
deterioration is 24% for passenger vehicles, and 47% for freight vehicles.
6.    The voc savings are applied to the voc presented in para 4.04.
7.    The proportion of ultimate deterioration experienced in years 1 through 4 is assumed to be
25, 50, 75 and 100% respectively".
The EER was calculated at 154%.
Reassessment: With reference to assumptions v1i and (2) above it was found from the "Transport
Statistical Bulletin, 1989-90" that total road freight traffic in 1989 was about 6.1 billion tons km.
This would translate into about 800 million freight vehicle kan. With reference to assumption (3)
above, it was found that in year 1989 about 563,000 metric tons of gasoline had been consumed
in the road transport alone. About 110,000 passenger vehicles were registered the same year.
These 'igures would correspond to about 2,000 million passenger vehicle Ikm per annum, or the
same as assumed in Year 1 at appraisal.



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Approximate average RBPC maintenance cost per annum is about USD5.0.
vm                     Cost a=PC                     Benefits
(US million                (USS mOin
1989                       5.0
1990                       5.0                        15.8
1991                       5.0                        31.5
1992                       5.0                        47.0
1993                       5.0                        63.0
The economic rate of return (ERR) is 54% and the net present value (NPV)
(atlS%) about US$ 89 Million.
Conclusion:  The assumptions made at appraisal about volume of road traffic in Sudan were
basically sound, and the rate of return on the Maintenance Progran is fully satisfactory.
2.     Two Ferries at Ed Dueim
At the project appraisal an EER of over 100% was indicated, based on a total cost of thc
two ferries of US$2.3 million and an esdmated savings in vehicle operating costs per year of
about US$8.6 million. The savings in voc was based on a traffic in 1985 of 417 vehicles per day
and a growth rate of 10% per year.
Reassessment:
lThe present traffic on the two ferries was found to be considerably less than estimated at
appraisal. It had been recorded by the ferry operator at about 10 heavy and 50 passenger cars per
day. The ferry traffic is expected to increase when the road between Ed Dueim and Wad Medani
is reconstructed by RBPC in 1995 and the feeder road from Ed Dueim to Es Sufi is constructed in
the near future. A recent engineering study for the Ed Dueim to Es Sufi road estimated a traffic
volume of about 200 vehicles per day on this road in year 2005. A fairly conservative estimate
would be that the present volume of ferry traffic would double by the end of the century, to
become about 20 heavy and 100 passenger cars per day.
In addition to the car traffic, more than 1000 pedestrian passengers are using the ferries
every day, which at present provides about half of the income from the ferries.
Cost of ferries:           US$3.58 million
Income per day:            SL 30,000 - SL 35,000
Cost per day:              Diesel       SL 20,000
Lubricants    SL 1,000
Wages        SL 5,000
Spares       SL 2,000



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Conclusion:
(i)   Using the same assumptions about voc savings as at appraisal (paras 4.06, 4.07),
the investment in the two ferries would still yield an ERR of more than 20%, not
coundng the considerable time savings by pedestrian passengers using the ferries
to reach the administrative center in Ed Dueim.
(ii)   The present income from the ferry traffic Is sufficient to recover the operational
costs.



