Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F e.
Report No. P-3552-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 15.5 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 28, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performa
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization .-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Sudanese Pounds (LS)          =         100 piasters
LS 1.00                   =         US$ 0.662
LS 100                    =         US$ 66.2
LS 1,000,000              =         US$ 662,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =         0.62 miles (m)
1 sq.km (km2)             =         0.3886 sq.mi (mi2)
1 metric ton (mt)        =          2,205 pounds (lb)
I liter (1)               =         0.264 gallons (gal)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAD          =          Civil Aviation Department
EEC          =          European Economic Community
KP           =          Khartoum Polytechnic Institute
LWOST        =          Low Water Ordinary Spring Tide
MCPW         =          Ministry of Construction and Public Works
MFEP         =          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MTC          =          Ministry of Transport and Communications
ODA          =          Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PPU          =          Project Preparation Unit (MFEP)
RBPC                    Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
RTC          =          River Transport Corporation
SPC          =          Sea Ports Corporation
SRC          =          Sudan Railways Corporation
TPU          =          Training Production Unit of RBPC
UNDP         =          United Nations Development Program
USAID        =          United States Agency for International
Development
voc          =          vehicle operating costs
vpd          =          vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF THE SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
JulY 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
S U D A N
THIRD HIGHWALY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:       Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC)
Amount:             SDR 15.5 million
Terms:             Standard
Onlending Terms:   Not applicable
Project
Description:     The proposed Project would support the objective of
reducing the cost of transport of agricultural and
industrial inputs and products by improving road
maintenance. In particular, the Project would support
improvements in: (a) maintaining the existing road
network; (b) transport planning and intermodal
coordination; and (c) management, planning and
operations in the road sector. The Project would, over
a period of four years, strengthen RBPC through: (a)
technical assistance and training in management and
organization, planning and execution of road
maintenance; (b) provision of equipment, spares, limited
supplies of fuel and bitumen; and (c) consultancy
services for a highway organization and investment study
and finance two ferries for the Nile Crossing at Ed
Dueim. The main benefits from improved road maintenance
would be lower vehicle operating costs resulting from a
reduction in the rate of degradation of all roads. The
institutional aspects of the project would result in
improved transport planning and increased efficiency of
RBPC. The two ferries would result in savings in
operating costs of vehicles which would otherwise have
to travel a larger distance over sandy tracks. Risk
affecting achievement of the Project objectives would be
failure to fully achieve institutional objectives, due
to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified
technical assistance staff. Problems encountered in
these aspects under the ongoing Second Highway Project
are being overcome and experience gained should result
in a more expeditious implementation of technical
assistance components under the proposed Project. A
comprehensive implementation schedule, including the
timing of steps to initiate project execution, terms of
reference and composition of technical assistance teams
and their counterparts has been agreed upon.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Summary of Project Cost:
Local Foreign Total
-- US$ million ----
Assistance to RBPC
A.  Technical Assistance                             0.3      2.1      2.4
B.  Training (incl. training equipment,              0.3      2.1     2.4
spares & fuel)
C.  Equipment, Tools, Spares, & Bitumen               -       5.7     5.7
Subtotal                                        0.6     9.9    10.5
Ferries                                              0.2      2.0      2.2
Other Consulting Services
Highway Organization and Investment Study            0.1      0.7      0.8
Base Cost (October 1983, net of duties
and taxes)l/                                        0.9    12.6    13.5
Contingencies
A.  Physical                                         0.1      1.1      1.2
B.  Prices2/                                         0.1      2.3      2.4
Subtotal                                        0.2     3.4      3.6
Total Project Cost                              1.1    16.0    17.1
I/ Insofar as taxes and duties apply to the Project Costs, they are
negligible.
2/   For local price contingencies, it has been assumed that any excess of
domestic inflation over international inflation since December 1982
will be offset by a corresponding depreciation of the Sudanese Pound.
Under this assumption, the price contingency of the local cost
component, expressed in US$, is equal to that for the foreign exchange
component.



- iii -
Financing:
Local Foreign Total
---- US$ million ----
IDA                                               -      16.0    16.0
Government                                       1.1       -       1.1
Total                                       1.1    16.0    17.1
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                 1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
-----------  US$ Million ---------
Annual                          1.97   4.27   4.36   3.50   1.90
Cumulative                      1.97   6.24  10.60  14.10  16.00
Rate of Return
Road Maintenance Component : 154%
Ferries                      : over 100%
Appraisal Report: No. 4290-SU, February 6, 1984
Map: IBRD No. 16809R2
/






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for SDR 15.5
million (US$16.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Third Highways Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
("Pricing Policies and Structural Balances") No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The findings of the
mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social, economic and
financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$460 (1982 Atlas methodology).-/ Much
of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there7is
relatively little population pressure on the land. Although much of the
country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d will be constructed, and export
is expected to commence in 1986. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant
proportion of industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial
enterprises are being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
1/ Based on the official exchange rates for the period 1978-79 - 1980/81.
Based on the exchange rate as of November 15, 1982 of LSD 1.00 =
US$0.769, per capita GNP for 1981/82 would have been about $278.



-2-
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of
payments situation. Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current
account increased from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained
between US$450 and US$550 million until 1979/80, when the combination of a
doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton production pushed
the deficit to over US$900 million. A further reduction in cotton exports
and increased petroleum imports led to a current account deficits of US$809
million in 1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves
have fallen to only a few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external
payments arrears had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic
management policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply
increased cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's
ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse
developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces --
reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems, and
absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1981/82. The
decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of a shift
from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton exports in 1981/82 was less than 15 percent of the 1971/72
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline, as did declining maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly in the
mid-1970s, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $332 million in 1977 and
1978. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. Annual external public debt service
payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more than
$800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to over
100 percent in 1982/83. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to
a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical implications for
future debt service obligations.



- 3 -
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion has slowed in succeeding
years, the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged
nearly 25 percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again
rose to around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, rose again in
1982/83 by around 30 percent. This contributed to an acceleration in
annual price increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent
in the past two years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have
been for social and community services, transfers to local government, and
general administration. The sharp increases in general administration
expenditures were due in large part to rising wages and salaries of
civilians in the central government, cost of living subsidies and
extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax revenues have
increased over the past few years; but since the tax system is relatively
inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with frequent new
tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the relative
contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, the Government has taken several significant
decisions in the last few years to establish financial equilibrium, to
restore export growth through appropriate policies and public investments,
to improve the performance of the public corporations, and to install an
adequate system for management of the nation's external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agriculture sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
11.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, in March 1981, several measures were taken to
strengthen the central government's budget, including increases in
petroleum product prices, import duties and the prices of cigarettes and
liquor. Further measures were taken in November 1981, including (i) a
unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at a new
depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = US$1.11; (ii) removal of budgetary subsidies
for petroleum products, wheat products, and sugar; and (iii) measures
designed to raise revenues and constrain credit expansion. These measures,



- 4 -
together with pledges at a special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that
closed the financing gap in the program, made it possible in the following
month for the IMF to approve a one-year Stand-by Arrangement for the Sudan
of SDR 198 million. However, this program also lapsed in mid-term because
of the Government's inability to comply with all of its conditions.
12.       The 1982 Stand-by Arrangement was subsequently cancelled.
Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a 44 percent
devaluation of the Sudanese Pound to LS 1.00 = US$0.77. The Government
also prepared a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984/85 (see
para. 18); this document formed the basis for discussions at the
Consultative Group Meeting in Paris in January 1983. The outcome of this
Meeting, together with a new debt restructuring package obtained from the
Paris Club in February 1983 (see para. 17), enabled the IMF to approve a
Stand-by Program for 1983 for a total amount of SDR 170 million. The terms
of a new Standby Arrangement for 1984 are under consideration between the
Government and the IMF.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.       An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program is
a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports.  This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had in fact
declined further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 50 percent
increase in production volume. This improving trend was continued in
1982/83 with a further 25 percent increase, and the total seed cotton
production is now close to 85 percent of the original target in the Export
Action Program. Several investments in the irrigated subsector are
supporting this export recovery. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Fund
Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for urgently
needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects will be
carried out in the 1980s. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project, Credit
1022-SU, approved in May 1980, was the first of these, followed by projects
for the Blue and White Nile. A rehabilitation project for the largest
irrigation scheme, the Gezira, is currently underway. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provides much needed foreign
exchange for purchases of agricultural inputs in the sub-sector. In
addition, several policy measures have been taken in the areas of cost
recovery, cotton marketing, and institutional reform.
14.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
more realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic
financial resources. In 1979 the Government prepared the first Three-Year
Public Investment Program covering the period 1978/79-1980/81. This
Program has been updated three times; the latest investment program,
covering the period 1983/84-1985/86, was incorporated into the updated
medium-term recovery program presented to the Consultative Group Meeting
held in December 1983.



-5-
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has taken several actions to help remedy the
problems of the public enterprises. The Government has abolished a
cumbersome and overly centralized corporate structure in agriculture and
replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organizational
reforms have also been implemented in the industrial and commercial sectors
as well. During the past year the Government has substantially increased
the prices for products of public corporations to improve their financial
positions.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier, Sudan's external debt burden has been quite
heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding external debt
at the end of 1983 amounted to around US$8.0 billion. Scheduled debt
service payments for 1984 exceed US$1.0 billion. During the mid-seventies
external debt management was weak, in part because authority to engage in
foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was divided among
many different ministries. This inefficiency was ameliorated through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance was
established in 1979, but this unit has not operated effectively. A new
unit, the Directorate for External Finance, is now being established,
directly linked to the Minister of Finance's office, to remedy this
situation and will be supported by a technical adviser provided by the IMF.
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the
rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of
amounts owed for the period October 1979 to June 1981. A further meeting
held in March 1982 rescheduled maturities falling due between July 1981 and
December 1982. The first payment on this arrangement was made by Sudan,
but because of an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government
was unable to discharge the other payments on time. The magnitude of
Sudan's debt problem and its inability to pay its rescheduled debt payments
led, in October 1982, to the appointment of an "External Finance
Coordinator". The first step towards a viable long-term solution to
Sudan's debt problem was taken by the Paris Club in February 1983 when it
agreed to reschedule all outstanding obligations due up to the end of 1983
over 16 years, with a six-year grace period. Agreements for 1983 payments
were made with the commercial banks and other creditors.
New Recovery Program
18.       In October 1983, the Government issued a new medium-term recovery
program entitled Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic
Development: 1983/84-1985/86.   In addition to a  realistic three-year
public investment program focused on economic recovery, primarily through



rehabilitation of the export sector and economically efficient import
substitution (especially in sugar), this document contained macro
projections through 1990/91 that reflect the long-term nature of the
recovery process and a set of short and medium term policy objectives
covering areas such as foreign trade, production, demand management,
resource allocation and external resource mobilization.
19.       At the Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on December
14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program. In addition to program aid, a substantial amount of debt
relief will also be required to close the balance of payment gap for 1984.
The Paris Club is expected to meet on this issue following conclusion of a
new Standby Arrangement with the Fund. If the Government builds on the
progress which has been made by staying within the terms of the IMF Standby
Arrangement, keeping the exchange rate realistic, continuing to encourage
agricultural output by maintaining adequate price levels for crops, and by
adhering to its announced development strategy for the next several years,
a slow but steady improvement in the balance of payments situation can be
anticipated.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$922.0 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 33 credits for a
total of 36 projects. Nineteen projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; a livestock marketing project; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, and an agricultural credit project. Projects in other sectors
include: three power projects, two education projects, two highway
projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, two port
projects, two technical assistance projects, and two industrial credit
projects. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. Largely as a result of these problems, the
Savannah Development Project (Credit 718-SU of June 24, 1977) has had to be
redesigned into a much smaller pilot project (Credit 1181-SU). Also, the
Domestic Aviation Project (Loan 1287-T; Credit 643-SU of July 7, 1976)
encountered serious delays and cost overruns and has had to be terminated.
There have also been lengthy delays in meeting effectiveness conditions,



-7-
- 7 -
mainly because of problems in establishing new institutions or project
accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary legal documentation, or
concluding required co-financing arrangements. These problems have been
brought to the attention of Government authorities, and steps have been
taken to resolve some of them such as in procurement and obtaining legal
opinions.
22.        The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but in FY82 the
rate improved markedly to 27.7 percent. The FY83 disbursement rate was
25.8 percent, as compared to 24.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4
percent Bank-wide.
Assistance Strategy
23.        The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis
for a Consultative Group meeting in January 1983 and a Standby Agreement
with the IMF (para. 12). This was followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing the updated versions of the recovery program and
in chairing Consultative Group meetings. In broad outline, this program
concentrates Government resources on the rehabilitation of existing capital
investments, particularly those which can contribute to expanding export
earnings, while restraining investment in new projects. At the project
level, IDA has continued to emphasize the rehabilitation of irrigated
agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, plus improvements in
infrastructure needed to service the agricultural sector. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (Credit 1000-SU of April 4, 1980) was effective in
providing badly needed spare parts and replacement machinery for the
irrigated sector, as well as encouraging the Government to take some
important steps toward improving incentives to farmers through better
cotton prices and costing arrangements for the irrigated schemes, and the
Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit 1389-SU) followed up
this earlier effort with the financing of recurrent agricultural inputs.
We will continue to concentrate IDA lending on the agricultural sector and
critical infrastructure during the period ahead, with proposed projects in
sugar rehabilitation, cotton marketing, electric power expansion, highway
maintenance, and petroleum exploration.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
24.        Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in



- 8 -
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
25.       The Government's strategy for the transport sector is to improve
efficiency and rehabilitate existing facilities. In the past, actual
expenditures in the transport sector have fallen short of projections (67
percent of planned expenditures between FY1978 and FY1981), but the
implementation rate is expected to improve under the new investment
program, which is more realistic than previous programs. While the general
orientation of the investment program is appropriate, two longer-term
problems remain to be addressed: (a) the best means of improving
south-north communications, and (b) the means by which the emerging need
for inter-modal coordination can be achieved. The south/north
communications problem is how to achieve efficient transport over a vast
distance at reasonable cost. Although river transport is the lowest cost
form of transport as measured in fuel and equipment costs, it is very slow,
taking several weeks to cover the 1,450 km from Juba to Kosti. Trucks
handle most of the traffic, including such low value commodities as
firewood, even on unpaved roads. The issue of inter-modal coordination,
unimportant until the mid 1970s, when rail was still the prime surface
transport mode and the road between Port Sudan and Khartoum an earth track,
has since come sharply into focus upon completion of a paved road between
these two cities in late 1980.
26.       Responsibility for planning and coordination within the transport
sector rests with the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) which
has no authority over the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) since
it was transferred to the Ministry of Construction and Public Works
(MCPW). Because of its role in determining financial allocations between
sectors, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP), has
established a transport and communications planning unit with assistance
from a planning team under a UNDP-financed project, executed by the Bank.
The MFEP is involved in evaluating all investment proposals by the various
transport agencies. Thus, overall transport planning capacity now exists
only in MFEP.
27.       Sudan is in danger of substituting road for rail transport even
in regions in which rail transport has clear economic advantages. A main
sectoral issue in the near future will therefore be the determination of
the railway's role in transport, and how rapidly and in what directions the
highway network should be expanded. The Government does not have clear
views on this but now recognizes that the solution to the railway problems
is not simply one of more equipment. It considers that this complex issue
should be subject to thorough review. It will be examined in the course of
three studies: the ongoing UNDP-financed "Western Sudan Transport Study"
executed by the Bank, the proposed "Sudan Railways Action Program" to be
formulated with assistance under the Second Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1153-SU), and the "Highway Organization and Investment Study" under
the project proposed in this report.



- 9 -
28.       The Bank Group's sector strategy will be to encourage Government
to concentrate on improving the efficiency with which existing assets are
employed, through the Second Port Project (Credit 1233-SU), the ongoing
preparation of a possible fifth railway project and through maintenance
oriented road projects.
Transport Modes
29.       Although the railway system of about 4,800 km of 1.067 m gauge,
single line track is quite extensive, it fails to meet the demands put upon
it. Freight traffic has declined in recent years from a peak of 2.7
billion ton-km in 1971 to 1.5 billion ton-km in 1981, while passenger
traffic has fluctuated between 1.0 and 1.3 million passenger-km. The
principal role of the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) is to transport
agricultural products including cotton to Port Sudan for export, and to
move imports, increasingly capital goods and construction materials, from
Port Sudan to Khartoum and other parts of the country. The corporation
handles about one-third of total import and export traffic. SRC's role in
internal freight movements has been relatively minor at about 9 percent of
the 1980 total. The Fourth Railway Project (Credit 727-SU and Loan
1467T-SU), approved in 1977, has improved locomotive availability, but the
operational improvements required to utilize available material to its full
advantage have been slower to materialize (para. 44). The completion of a
paved highway between Port Sudan and Khartoum in 1980 has provided strong
competition from the trucking industry which offers more reliable services,
though at higher economic and financial costs. The most pressing problems
are the upgrading of technical and managerial skills, including marketing
and traffic management, in order to make effective use of the considerable
investments sunk in Sudan's railway system.
30.       Port Sudan, the country's deep sea port, is managed by the Sea
Ports Corporation (SPC). The First Port Project (IDA Credit 781-SU) was
recently completed successfully. Implementation of the Second Port Project
(IDA Credit 1233-SU), approved in 1982, will provide adequate capacity to
at least 1987. With comparatively minor additional investments by
1986/1987 Port Sudan's capacity can be further increased to meet Sudan's
port traffic requirements until 1990 or beyond.
31.       Air traffic in Sudan has grown relatively rapidly over the past
four years despite seriously constrained domestic services. The number of
domestic air passengers has more than doubled since 1972 but traffic growth
during the last five years has been small and erratic and showed a decline
in 1981 due mainly to fuel shortage. International passenger traffic has
about tripled in the last five years. Of Sudan's 20 airports, only
Khartoum is genuinely all-weather. Strengthening of the runway and
taxiways and ancillary works to take wide body aircraft and a program for
the upgrading of electronic landing aids and installation of navigational
aids and telecommunications equipment for major regional routes are
currently in progress.
32.       River transport is used on the Kosti-Malakal-Juba (1,450 km) and
the Karima-Dongola (290 km) sections of the Nile system and currently
accounts for only 1-2 percent of total freight traffic. The Kosti-Juba



- 10 -
section is by far the most important, accounting for about 70 percent of
river traffic, and serves as the major surface transport link between
southern and central Sudan. Even so, it falls far short of meeting the
south's freight transport requirements (para. 25). Use of river transport
is constrained by adverse physical conditions, such as shallow water during
the 3-4 low-water months, a huge swamp in the south, water hyacinth
encroachment, inadequate berthing and cargo handling facilities and by the
inefficient services of the River Transport Corporation (RTC) for traffic
other than oil products and food which currently receive priority. RTC's
fleet has been expanded in recent years with assistance from Norway and the
Federal Republic of Germany. Low fleet utilization, attributable to poor
operations and maintenance, is compounded by low load factors which are
largely the result of the directional imbalance of traffic and the
necessity to underload on shallow river sections.
The Highway Subsector
33.       The development of a highway network in Sudan is of recent origin
with 70 percent of the paved roads constructed in the last decade. The
road network is not adequate to cover all parts of the country and its
condition is very unsatisfactory. Except for the paved roads and gravel
roads constructed and improved with financial assistance from bilateral and
multilateral aid agencies, most roads are mere tracks which are impassable
during the rainy season.
Road Transport Characteristics
34.       The vehicle fleet increased by 160 percent from 1969 to 1979 but
is believed to have increased more slowly since. The main factor has been
the construction of a paved road between Port Sudan and Khartoum, completed
in 1980. Despite the rapid growth, the average vehicle density of 7 per
thousand inhabitants is well below the average of about 11 for Africa. The
density is uneven with most vehicles concentrated in the Khartoum, Wad
Medani, and Port Sudan triangle. The density in the Southern Region, for
example, is only about a sixth of that of the remainder of the country.
Trucking operations are largely concentrated in an area bounded by
Khartoum, Kosti, Damazin and Port Sudan. Important operations also occur
between Kosti and Malakal, around El Obeid, and between Juba and the
southern rail terminal of Wau. Other areas are poorly served and in the
west and south, in particular, there are serious capacity shortages. The
industry is competitive, being dominated by owner-drivers, with freight
rates determined by market forces. Road passenger services are provided
almost exclusively by private operators, employing buses of various sizes
and modified trucks.
35.       Vehicle safety and traffic regulations are satisfactory, but
vehicle dimensions and axle load limits appear to be restrictive compared
to the demand for larger trucks which may be particularly economical
because of the long travel distances involved. In 1981, legislation was
drafted to raise the legal axle load limit from 9.2 mt to 10 mt which was
however not ratified. A technical committee was recently formed to draft
regulations to govern dimensions and specifications of vehicles imports in
order to prevent import of vehicles not in accordance with road design.



- 11 -
Efforts to enforce legal axle loads on the roads have failed because of
procedural difficulties. The Highway Organization and Investment Study
under the project proposed in this report would include a review of the
current laws and procedures pertaining to control of vehicle dimensions and
weights and those governing vehicle import specifications and
recommendations for amendments as necessary and enforcement measures.
During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government that it
would, by January 1, 1987, take the necessary measures for the regulation
of vehicle dimensions and axle loads, including regulation of vehicle
import specifications. (Section 4.04, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Administration and Organization
36.       The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) is responsible
for construction of all roads and maintains paved roads and bridges. The
maintenance of earth and gravel roads is the responsibility of the regional
governments with technical assistance provided by the RBPC regional
managers. Although the RBPC was established as a public corporation, it
has no autonomy and functions as a government department. In 1982,
responsibility for the corporation was transferred from the Ministry of
Transport and Communications to the Ministry of Construction and Public
Works. RBPC's organizational structure has too many layers of management
while the maintenance division suffers from inadequate staffing.  The
Highway Organization and Investment Study in the proposed Project would
review the existing role of RBPC, define its future functions and recommend
improvements to its organization.  During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that, not later than June 30, 1987, a plan
would be implemented to improve the organization of RBPC (Section 3.06(a),
Draft Development Credit Agreement).
37.       Many RBPC staff lack adequate qualifications for their
positions. Turnover is high, particularly among experienced engineers and
technicians who move to the private sector or go abroad where salaries are
much more attractive. Nevertheless, staffing is excessive. Newly
recruited graduates are trained by consultants and contractors working on
road projects but few qualified technicians join RBPC because of poor
salaries and low prestige. A training program which would be financed
under the Project has been designed to help overcome these deficiencies,
particularly to strengthen RBPC's road maintenance capability.
38.       Highway investment planning is the responsibility of RBPC.
Planning is, however, fragmented and carried out mainly on the basis of a
series of feasibility studies carried out by various foreign consultants,
while participation by RBPC, which is largely staffed by engineers, is
limited. RBPC has yet to develop a capability to update road feasibility
studies so that priority assessments tend to be based on obsolete
feasibility studies. The proposed project includes provision for an
experienced transport economist in RBPC to strengthen RBPC's Planning
Division.
39.       RBPC has a design section in its projects directorate but only
minor road improvements and bridges are designed in-house. Detailed
engineering of major works is carried out by foreign consulting firms and
the main function of the RBPC design staff is to coordinate their work.



- 12 -
40.       Construction works are carried out either by RBPC or foreign
contractors. Apart from RBPC, which was originally established as a
construction corporation, there are no domestic road contractors. Where
RBPC has constructed the works as in the case of the Sennar-Kosti road
(110 km), it was assisted by a management team provided by consultants.
41.       Maintenance.  RBPC maintains the paved roads and bridges through
regional managers. Each region is divided into two or more districts
supervised by district engineers. The present administrative structure for
maintenance is satisfactory, but road maintenance has suffered through lack
of adequately trained staff and low availability of equipment. Under the
First Highway Project, the Association financed equipment and spares for
road maintenance. The RBPC has also benefitted from a Japanese credit for
purchase of equipment and spares, and British assistance for workshop
improvements. Although the equipment fleet is nominally adequate, many
items have become unserviceable due to lack of proper maintenance.
Equipment availability is low because of ill-trained mechanics, poor
workshop organization and management, and insufficient supply of spare
parts. The proposed Project would provide for technical assistance to
improve workshop operations including training, the procurement of spare
parts and components for equipment rehabilitation and the implementation of
training and road maintenance programs.
42.       Financing.  Highway expenditures, both construction and
maintenance, are financed from three sources: (i) government general
revenues, (ii) foreign aid, and (iii) highway toll revenues. The level of
general revenues generated by road user charges averaged LS 66 million
annually in 1979-81. This amount was well in excess of total expenditures
on highways which averaged about LS 32 million annually during this
period. Since most of the construction expenditures are financed by
bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, the bulk of road user revenues is
used at the present time for general purposes. Tolls were introduced in
late 1980 on the Port Sudan-Khartoum road and toll revenue in 1981 totalled
LS 935,000. The tolls, averaging only about LS 4 per vehicle for the 1190
km road, do not seem to have any noticeable effect on traffic volumes.
Administration expenses are not readily identifiable in RBPC accounts, but
amount to not more than 10 percent of revenue. RBPC expenditures have been
fairly stable in recent years, averaging LS 32 million annually in
FY1978-82. These do not include expenditures on roads serving the major
irrigation schemes. The proportion devoted to maintenance and
administration has increased, largely as a result of the rapid increase in
the paved road network for which RBPC is responsible. Available records of
expenditures on roads in the region show that such expenditures have been
substantially lower, about LS 3.0 million annually in FY1981 and FY1982.
Expenditures will increase rapidly, however, as more of the gravel roads,
currently being rehabilitated by bilateral aid agencies, are handed over to
the regions for maintenance. Funding for RBPC road maintenance has been
satisfactory during the past few years but it is difficult to segregate
road maintenance expenditures from pavement strengthening work and
rehabilitation. There is a clear need to establish a realistic level of
maintenance expenditure. To achieve this, the cost accounting system in
RBPC will have to be improved. The technical assistance financed under the
proposed Project would therefore include cost accountants. Agreement was



- 13 -
reached during negotiations that Government would, not later than July 1,
1986, revise the formats of annual estimates of RBPC expenditures to show
clearly the road maintenance works to be executed and corresponding
allocations of funds (Section 3.06(b), Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Operations in the Sector
43.       The proposed Project would be the third lending operation in
support of road transport in the Sudan. In 1972 a Credit for US$7.0
million was approved (Credit 331-SU) to: (a) improve organization and
operation of the Department of Roads in the Ministry of Transport; (b)
improve transport planning and coordination; (c) identify priority roads
and carry out feasibility and engineering studies; (d) establish
maintenance programs; and (e) procure equipment and spare parts to carry
out these programs. A Project Completion Report on this project, Number
SecM83-30, was distributed on January 10, 1983. Although implementation
took twice as long as estimated at appraisal, provision of equipment, spare
parts and technical assistance led to improvements in the paved road
network. A reevaluation shows that the rate of return on the maintenance
component in the North, estimated at 32 percent during appraisal, was
exceeded by about 6 percent. No data are available to allow a similar
analysis on the impact of the Southern maintenance component. To keep
costs within available funds, detailed engineering for 350 km of roads
identified under the project was deleted. Problems encountered during
implementation were inadequacy of recurrent budget funds, indecision on the
Government's part in pursuing consultants' recommendations, Government's
procurement procedures and slow recruitment of technical assistance staff.
A Second Highway Project (Credit 882-SU) approved in 1979, provided US$41.0
million for: (a) construction of the Jebpl Aulia-Ed Dueim road (158 km) and
provision of two ferries along the White Nile and related consulting
services; (b) detailed engineering of the Jebel Aulia-Rabak road and a
further 500 km of roads to be identified; and (c) 348 man-months technical
assistance plus workshops, offices, housing, equipment, vehicles, spares
and fuel to strengthen the highway administration (Southern Regional
Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, SRMCTR) in the southern
region which was divided on July 1, 1983 in three regions (Bahr-el-Chayal,
Upper Nile and Equatoria). Physical project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily after delays of 5 months in signing contracts for
construction and 15 months in contracting technical assistance staff. In
July 1983, USAID signed an agreement with the Government to provide US$19.7
million to continue efforts to rehabilitate and improve road maintenance in
the south when the Association's ongoing project comes to a close at the
end of 1984.
44.       Experience in project implementation in other transport
subsectors is mixed. The First Port Project (Credit 781-SU) was recently
completed successfully and implementation of the Second Port Project
(Credit 1233-SU) has started expeditiously. The Domestic Aviation Project
(Loan 1287T-SU and Credit 643-SU) approved in 1976 was closed on Sept. 30,
1981. Except for consultancy design services, amounting to $627,000, the
major project components which were to be funded by the Bank were not
executed due to repeated delays in tendering and resulting cost escalations
rendering construction of Wau and Malakal airports economically



- 14 -
unfeasible. Remaining balances in the Loan and Credit accounts were
cancelled. Construction of the airports at Port Sudan and Juba, the
justification of which remained intact, is proceeding with funding from the
Saudi Fund and the European Development Fund, respectively, under
arrangements originally conceived as cofinancing with the Bank. Since
1958, the Bank Group has made three loans and two credits for four railways
projects to a total amount of US$114.0 million. Although provision of
rolling stock and other equipment has helped overcome physical bottlenecks,
general operations of the railway have deteriorated. Over the past ten
years rail transport has declined by 44 percent for freight and 10 percent
for passengers. While in the early seventies rail accounted for 73 percent
of total freight, it is presently 26 percent. Performance against
financial and operational indicators has deteriorated dramatically (para.
27). Although the inevitable advent of road transport has had its effect
upon the railway's share in traffic, the lack of operational efficiency and
the unreliability of its services is a major cause of the railway's
decline. There is an urgent need for provision of spare parts but further
major investments in capital stock are not justified at the present time.
Emphasis must be placed upon: (a) improved operational and financial
efficiency of the railway system; (b) improved intermodal coordination
between rail and road transport to render the two modes complementary
rather than competitive as at present, with consequent economic
inefficiencies (paras. 25, 27). The Government is making efforts to
restore the railways as an asset to Sudan's economy and agreement was
reached early in 1983 between the Government and the Association on the
formulation of a coherent action program to restore SRC's efficiency to an
acceptable level within the near future. To assist in the formulation of
this recovery plan, the Association agreed to provide consultancy services
under the Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1153-SU).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.        The proposed Project would continue and consolidate the
institutional efforts initiated under the first and second highway projects
with emphasis on maintenance. The Project was appraised in October 1982.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4290-SU, dated February 6, 1984) is being
circulated separately. The Credit and Project Summary sheet is at the
beginning of this report and a supplementary data sheet is at Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from March 23 to March 30, 1983; the
Government delegation was headed by Mr. Osman Mustafa, Under Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. Discussions on fuel pricing
issues continued thereafter. Subsequently, the project was partially
reformulated, and, in February 1984, final agreement was reached on the
proposed Development Credit Agreement.
Project Objectives
46.        The proposed Project would support the objective of reducing the
cost of transport of agricultural and industrial inputs and products by
improving road maintenance. In particular, the Project would support



- 15 -
improvements in: (a) maintaining the existing road network; (b) transport
planning and intermodal coordination; and (c) management, planning and
operations of RBPC. These objectives are consistent with the Bank Group
strategy of rehabilitation and conservation of existing capital and
infrastructural support to production and export development.
Project Description
47.       The Project comprises:
(a) assistance to RBPC consisting of:
i) technical assistance to improve workshop organization
and management, spare parts management and equipment
rehabilitation, strengthen planning and road
maintenance capability, and implement the road
maintenance programs of the respective agencies;
ii)  training;
iii)  procurement of workshop tools and equipment, road
maintenance equipment and spares and limited amounts
of fuel and bitumen;
(b) procurement of two ferries for the Nile crossing at Ed
Dueim; and
(c) other consulting services for a highway organization and
investment study including the establishment and training of
an RBPC pavement evaluation unit.
Detailed Features
Improvement of Workshop and Equipment Rehabilitation
48.       The Project would finance 216 man-months of technical assistance
to reorganize RBPC's central workshop at Khartoum, improve its management,
assist in rehabilitation of the equipment stock, train mechanics, and
reorganize existing mechanical stores. Presently, about 30 percent of
equipment is available on average for service at any one moment. By end
1988, availability and utilization is expected to be 80 percent as a result
of the Project. During negotiations agreement was reached concerning
monitoring of equipment availability and utilization rates against agreed
annual targets (Section 4.03(c)(ii), Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Maintenance
49.       The project includes a total of 36 man-months of consultant
services to assist the recently established maintenance directorate of RBPC
through provision of a maintenance engineer and a cost accountant. This
component would assist in implementing an agreed road maintenance program.
The composition of the technical assistance team and an outline of the
terms of reference was agreed upon during negotiations. Agreement was



- 16 -
reached on submission, for IDA's review and approval, of RBPC's
annual maintenance budget, physical targets, and capital investment plans
(Section 4.03(c)(i), Draft Development Credit Agreement).
Planning
50.       Planning in RBPC would be strengthened through the provision of a
transport economist/planner to RBPC for 30 man-months.
Training
51.       The proposed training program would aim at improving (i)
equipment repair and servicing, and (ii) the standard of highway
maintenance through the training, retraining and upgrading of some 360 RBPC
workshop and road maintenance personnel. The program would:
(i) strengthen the RBPC training directorate;
(ii) establish a mobile Training Production Unit (TPU) in RBPC;
(iii) procure laboratory and survey equipment for technician
training at the Khartoum Polytechnic Institute;
(iv) institute a three-year apprenticeship scheme in RBPC
workshop to train master mechanics and master electricians;
(v) conduct seminars for midlevel and professional staff in
RBPC.
52.       Training for workshop personnel would be provided under an
apprenticeship scheme to qualify master mechanics and electricians. During
negotiations agreement was reached on appropriate certification of
graduates from the apprenticeship program (Section 3.05, Draft Development
Credit Agreement).
53.       Training of road maintenance staff would be provided as follows:
Scholarships at the Khartoum Polytechnic to follow the three-year highway
technicians course (Section 3.07, Draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Project would include survey and laboratory equipment for the Khartoum
Polytechnic to an amount of $135,000 equivalent. A Training Production
Unit (TPU) would be established in RBPC for training of staff under actual
working conditions. During negotiations agreement was reached that, not
later than July 1, 1985, Government would ensure establishment of the TPU,
to be staffed and equipped to the satisfaction of the Association (Section
3.06(b)(ii), Draft Development Credit Agreement). Technical assistance for
training to be provided to RBPC (120 man-months), in addition to the
technical assistance described in paras. 48-51, would include a training
specialist to assist in planning, coordination and monitoring of training
activities.
54.       The consultancy study included in the Project comprises a Highway
Organization and Investment Study (69 man-months) which would help develop
a coordinated strategy for the entire transport sector, improve intermodal



- 17 -
coordination, and formulate a comprehensive highway investment program.
Consultants assigned under this study would help establish and train a
pavement evalution unit in RBPC.
Equipment and Supplies
55.       Equipment and tools procured under the project would meet
requirements for the TPU and for expansion of the road maintenance
equipment fleet. Survey and laboratory equipment required for road
maintenance training would be provided to the Khartoum Polytechnic
Institute (para. 53). Spare parts amounting to $3.1 million for RBPC would
be provided for rehabilitation and maintenance of existing equipment.
Adequate supply of fuel has been a persistent problem in implementing
projects in the Sudan, due to the serious foreign exchange constraints.
Therefore fuel requirements for the TPU to an amount of $230,000 would be
met under the Credit. An initial stock of bitumen would be provided from
the Credit proceeds to an amount of $750,000 to support the operations of
the TPU under RBPC.
Two Ferries
56.       The ongoing project (Credit 882-SU) included provision for the
procurement of two feries for motor vehicles, to service the Nile crossing
at Ed Dueim on the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim road. The financing of substantial
cost overruns on the construction of the road, also under the ongoing
project, has resulted in insufficient funds being available for the
purchase of the two ferries. The Government has requested financing to be
included in the proposed project. The ferries are intended to replace two
existing ferries operating between Ed Dueim on the west bank of the White
Nile and the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim-Rabak road on the east bank of the
river. The ferries provide a feeder access to the road. The existing
ferries can be operated satisfactorily for only one more year and an amount
of US$2.3 million has been earmarked in the project for the procurement of
two new ferries.
Project Costs
57.       The total cost of the Project, excluding duties and taxes, is
estimated at US$17.1 million equivalent including contingencies. Base
costs are in October 1983 prices. (A summary cost table is given in the
Credit and Project Summary). Total foreign costs amount to US$16.0 million
or 94 percent. Foreign exchange costs for consulting services (471
man-months in total) are estimated at US$8,900 per man-month on average.
Since Sudan has no local consultancy capacity for services included in the
proposed Project, no estimates for local services are included.
Contingencies for price escalation are included as follows: Local costs -
FY1984, 25%; FY85, 20%; FY86, 17%; FY87 and FY88, 15%. Foreign costs -
FY84, 7.8%; FY85, 7.2%; FY86, 6%; and FY87 onwards, 6%.



- 18 -
Financing
58.        The Project would be financed as follows:
Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ Million ------
Association              -          16.0       16.0
Government               1.1         -          1.1
T o t a 1        1.1        16.0       17.1
59.        Since RBPC does not have financial autonomy, onlending
arrangements are not applicable under the proposed Project.
Implementation
60.        RBPC would be responsible for the execution of the project
components except for the highway organization and investment study (para.
54) which would be executed by the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) of the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. As discussed in Part III above,
RBPC requires improvements in its management structure, operations,
planning and staffing. To strengthen RBPC and to assist in project
implementation, the Project includes provisions for technical assistance
and training as set out in the preceding paragraphs and summarized in Annex
III.   In addition, agreement has been reached during negotiations that by
June 30, 1986, Government would adopt a coordinated highway and rail
investment program, satisfactory to the Association, covering the period
FY1987-1989 (Section 4.03(c)(iii), Draft Development Credit Agreement).
The objective of this provision is to help ensure improved intermodal
coordination (paras. 25 and 26). Furthermore, agreement was reached that
Sudan would complete a Transportation Cost Review by December 31, 1984
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, discuss its
findings with the Association and, thereafter, based on the findings,
maintain appropriate fuel prices (Section 4.02, Draft Development Credit
Agreement). Although revenue from road user charges presently far exceeds
road construction and maintenance costs (para. 42), there is scope for
increasing fuel prices, which would enhance government revenues, slow the
rate of growth of fuel imports, and improve incentives to use rail and
river transport (paras. 25 and 27). An implementation schedule including
steps and timing to initiate project execution, terms of reference for
technical assistance services, composition of technical assistance teams
and their counterparts has been agreed upon. Financial and operational
reporting requirements are set out in the following paragraphs. The
Project completion date would be set for June 30, 1988, a realistic target,
and the Credit closing date for June 30, 1989. The twelve-month interval
is in line with Sudan's current disbursement performance.
61.        Project Accounts will be maintained by RBPC and PPU with separate
accounts for each component. The agencies' accounting systems and staff
are adequate to maintain satisfactory project accounts. Auditing of the



- 19 -
RBPC is the responsibility of the Auditor General. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government that an independent auditor would
be appointed to audit the project accounts and not later than nine months
after each financial year, the Association would be furnished with
certified copies of the project financial statements and an audit report of
sufficient scope and detail (Section 4.01(b), Draft Development Credit
Agreement). Responsibility for project reporting would be shared between
RBPC and consultants as follows: (i) inception, progress and final report
on technical assistance by consultants providing these services in
accordance with their terms of reference; (ii) inception, progress and
final reports on studies by consultants undertaking the studies in
accordance with their terms of reference; and (iii) quarterly progress
reports and a completion report by RBPC. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with the Government regarding submission of quarterly progress
reports to the Association, of sufficient scope and detail, on progress of
project implementation, its costs and benefits (Section 3.04(b), Draft
Development Credit Agreement). A Project Completion Report in a form
satisfactory to the Association would be submitted not later than six
months after the project closing date (Section 3.04(d), Draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Procurement
62.       Items to be financed under the Credit would be procured as
follows: road maintenance equipment and spares for RBPC and its TPU
(US$4.59 million) would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Nine manufacturers
tendered bids for the two ferries (US$2.31 million) under the ongoing
project following ICB. They will be invited to present new bids. RBPC
workshop tools and equipment (US$0.29 mn), aids and equipment for the TPU
(US$0.18 mn), fuel (US$0.23 mn), and bitumen (US$0.75 mn) for the TPU would
be procured through limited international bidding by inviting not less than
three suppliers, from three different countries, to bid. Spares and
components for repair and rehabilitation of existing RBPC equipment to an
estimated value of about US$3.8 million would be procured through limited
international bidding or from the original suppliers. Documentation for
limited international bidding would be the same as for ICB and bids would
be evaluated as under ICB. Qualified domestic manufacturers would receive
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the import tariff, whichever
is the lower. Miscellaneous items in packages of less than US$50,000
within a ceiling of US$0.5 million would be procured under local
procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
Contracts for bidding packages for goods over US$200,000 equivalent would
be subject to prior review and approal of bid documents by the
Association. This would result in a coverage of about 80 percent of the
value of goods. The balance of contracts would be subject to post review
by the Association after contract award. The contracts for technical
assistance services and other consulting services estimated to total about
US$5.53 million would be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants. During negotiations, the above procurement
arrangements were agreed upon (Section 3.02 and Schedule 3, Draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Disbursement
63.       The Credit will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for workshop tools and
equipment, road maintenance equipment, ferries, spare parts
and fuel and bitumen if imported directly, 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory costs) if manufactured
locally, and 60 percent of local costs, if procured locally;
and
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultants'
services.
All disbursement requests would be fully documented. A projected
disbursement schedule is given in the Project Summary.
Environmental Impact
64.       The net environmental impact of the project is favorable.  The
improved maintenance of the gravel roads will reduce the need for
reconstruction of these roads and hence the demand for quarry material
which in many areas of the Sudan is scarce. Improved maintenance of paved
roads will benefit the environment through reduced fuel consumption of the
vehicles using the roads and hence a reduced production of noxious fumes
resulting in improved air quality.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
65.       The main economic objective of the proposed Project is to ensure
that the recently expanded paved road network will be properly maintained.
The paved network expanded from about 300 km in 1970 to over 2200 km in
1982, with the main growth in traffic over the system having occurred over
the past six years. Thus the system is relatively new and, except on some
of the older stretches, the need for maintenance is not yet obvious.
However, it is conservatively estimated that unless a planned and
systematic maintenance program is carried out, the road system will rapidly
deteriorate, with consequent significant increases in vehicle operating
costs.
66.       Calculations of the benefits from avoidance of doubling of
surface roughness of paved roads over a period of seven years result in an
economic rate of return of 154 percent. The beneficiaries will in the
first instance be freight vehicle operators (about 55 percent) and bus and
light vehicle, including car, operators (45 percent). In the competitive
environment existing (para. 34), savings are expected to be passed on to
consumers. A sensitivity analysis, assuming costs increased by 25 percent
and benefits reduced by 50 percent, shows an economic rate of return over
60 percent.
67.       The ferries at Ed Dueim  would provide access to the economically
important area across the Nile. The section Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim was
completed recently under the ongoing project. The section from Ed Dueim to
Rabak is being financed by the Government of the Federal Republic of



- 21 -
Germany. In the absence of the ferry connection traffic would be forced to
travel 158 km over sandy tracks through the desert on the east bank of the
Nile river rather than using the Jebel Aulia-Ed Dueim road over the same
distance on the west bank. The savings in vehicle operating costs per year
due to the ferry connection are estimated at LS 13 million. Investment
costs of the ferries (US$2.3 million at October 1983 prices) would thus be
recouped in a few months only, indicating an economic rate of return of
over 100 percent. The traffic at the Ed Dueim ferry crossing in 1985 is
projected at 417 vehicles per day. As one ferry has a capacity of 290
vehicles per day, a second ferry is required and economically justified.
Given a projected traffic growth rate of 10 percent per year, the two
ferries should be able to cope with the traffic demand till the late 1980s.
68.        The Project is subject to risk in that it may not fully achieve
its institutional objectives due to the difficult living and working
conditions which could reduce the effectiveness of technical assistance
provided under the project. As noted in para. 43, appointment of technical
assistance staff under the Second Highway Project (Credit 882-SU) was
delayed considerably. The situation is improving however and experience
gained under the Second Project should result in a more expeditious
implementation under the proposed Project. During negotiations a
comprehensive implementation schedule, including the timing of steps to
initiate project execution, terms of reference and composition of technical
assistance teams and their counterparts was agreed upon. Progress would be
monitored against the agreed implementation schedule.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
70.        Special features of the Draft Development Credit Agreement are
mentioned in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
71.        I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TA B L E  3A        '                                    PAGS I
SUDAiI                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DArA SHilET
SUDAN                                    RCFCRI:NCL GBUUiS (WEl(;llTIt AVERAGi.S) /I
MOST                        (HOST KLCENT ESMIiAT-;) /b
RECENT               LUd INCOME                HIDOL-: INCOME
1 9 60O~/-b  1970-  ESTIMATE-          AFRICA S. OF SAtiARA      AFRt(:A S. UF SAdAR.;
AlRA (THOUSAND SQ. RN)
TOTAL                                 2505.8       2505.8       2505.8
AGRICULTURAL                           671.8        677.0        684.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      150.0        190.0        380.U               254.6                      1147.9
ENERGY CONSUtlPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGiLVMS OF COAL EFUIVALENT)         58.U        170.0        101.0                79.8                       724.2
POPULATION AgD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MIU-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   11228.0         13849.0      19242.0
URBAN POPULATION (U OF TOTAL)           IU.3         16.4         25.7                19.5                        28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION LS YEAR 2000 (UILL)                                  33.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   111.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER S(q. KM.                          4.5           5.5          7.5               29.5                         56.5
PIR SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                16.7         20.5         27.3               94.1                        131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                            43.7          43.7         44.2               45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                            53.2          53.4         53.0               52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                          3.1          2.9           2.8                2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROWTII iiATE (Z)
TOTAL                                  2.0          2.1          3.0                2.8                          2.8
URBAN                                  6.9          6.7          7.1                 6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTli RATE (PER FHOUS)           46.5         46.7         46.6                47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIIOUS)           24.5         22.1         18.4                19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATL                  3.3          3.3          3.3                 3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)               .
USERS (Z OF IPARRlD WOMEN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA                                                                      -
(1969-71-1O0)                          92.0        100.0         104.U               87.8                         95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0          91.0        101.0               88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAIS PER DAY)             65.0          66.0         69.0               51.2                         56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           24.0          22.0         22.0/c             18.1                         17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             40.1         32.4         20.8               25.7                         23.6
HE.ALTIE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTil (YEARS)          39.6         41.8         46.6               47.4                         51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          168.0        150.4        121.8              126.5                        117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                   ..         19.0         46.0/d             24.7                         25.4
ULBAh                                  ..         61.0          49.u7W             56.8                         70.5
RURAL                                   ..         13.0         45.07W             1d.3                         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         16.0         22.0fe             2d.1
URBAN                                  ..            ..           ..               65.7
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..               21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            33420.0      14060.0        8800.0            27420.6                      12181.6
POP. PEE NURSING PERSON              3030.0/f    1720.0         1410.0             3456.2                       2292.0
POP. PER diOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               980.0/g      920.0/5    1010.0/c             1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                               130.07Lt.    190O7j       450.07Wc            380.6                        402.3
RURAL                              4400.0/f.g  5120.0j    1760.0/c               3177.5                      3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER ISOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
IDUSING
AVERAGE SIZL OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..          5.1
URBAN                                  ..           5.7/h
RURAL                                  ..            ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..          2.5/h
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..          26.4/h
RURAL                                   ..           ..
--------  ------- -------  --------  ------- ----_----__ - _ ,- _ _ _--  -- __-- ----_ --__ -_ _-- _______________________________________--



- 23 -
ANNEX I
T A b L E   3A        -                                    PAGS 2
SUD\N                     - SOCIAt. INOiCATORS DATA SI1F:ET
SUOA'i                                     REFERENLt (G(lUPS (WEIGhr,b AVLJ(AGi.;.) I.
MIOSr                        (OtUSOT REI;.5l_ r LIAA-.) 'b
lb  RECENrt                LOU' ICU":YE              :INJOLL I:NCOML
1 96 C, ~lb  197U-  Lsri!lArl-          AFRICA S. OF SA,dAA        A-RI([A S. UF SADA.rA
EDUCAT ION
AIiJid 1; l.;.ROLI.,-Th.I srAuIs
PR,IAl\EY:   LOrAL                     2S.0         38.0          51.U                 63.9                         97.2
!IALE                      35.G         46.0          00.U                 73.6                        103.1
FE:IAI.E                   14.0         29.0          43.0                51.6                          88.5
S_..:.DAiY: T[TAL                       3.0           7.0         16.U                 12.5                         17.2
;IALE                       5.0         10.0          2U.U                16.7                          23.5
FL:IALE                     1.U          4.0          12.0                 3.1                          14.2
VUCATIUo;;A. (4 UF' S:LCt:U::ARY)         3.4           1.4/L        4.0/i,j              7.3                           5.2
PUiEL-rEACOIR KArlO
eKPIAAR                                41.0         47.0          34.0                46.4                          42.9
SECUNDARY                              20.U          17.0         2O.0                25.1                          23.7
AUULT LITIKACY RAIE (2)                  13.1          14.7/h       32.0                 36.5                         37.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSE:NGER CAKS/THOUSAND POP              1.4           2.0            .                  3.3                        1.8
RADIO KECU.[VEAS/TIIOUSA:ND POP          17.0/k        80.4         71.2                 45.3                         97.8
TV RECEIVERSIIIOUSAND POP                 0.87T         3.2           5.6                 2.2                         18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY iENERAL
INTIEREST) CIRCuLATluN
?ER T,OUSA.i!' POPULATION                4.4            ..          1.0                  4.7                         18.2
CINEMA A.i'AL ArTENDANCE/CAPirA           U.9            *-          0.6                  1.0                          0.6
LABOR FORCE
TUTAL LABOR FORCE (t,iOUS)             3722.0       4544.0        6086.0
FEMALE (PERCEdT)                        9.6         10.2          10.9                34.5                          36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCE:;T)                 86.0         82.0          72.0                 76.9                         56.S
I5NUSTRY (PXRCE:;T)                     6.0          8.0          10.0                 9. 0                         17.5
PARTICIPAIIOh RArE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                                  33.2         32.8          31.6                40.9                          37.0
KALE                                   59.3          58.2         55.6                 53.0                         47.1
F'EMALE                                 6.4           6.8          7.0                28.9                          27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4           1.4          1.5                  1.2                           1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT of PRIVArE INCGOE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5/. OF IlUUSEiOLDS             20.9/1          ..
ilIGREST 20: OF HOUSE:IOLDS           50.1/         49.2/n
LOWEST '20. OF HOUSEHOLDS               5.oT;        5:1/n
LOWEST 401 OF dOUSE;IOLDS              13.97         14.57..*
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSULUDE PUVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..            ..        137.u/o             165.9                         534.2
RURAL                                    ..            ..         B0.0/e              87.4                         255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US3 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..            ..        115.0/o             100.8                         491.5
RURAL                                    ..            ..        loo.07-              64.0                         188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCUtE LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                    ..            ..           ..                39.5
RURAL                                    ..            ..         ti.0/e              69.0
NOT AVAILABLL
HOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic weans.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 19b1;  Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1901.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /c 1975; /f 1962; /g Cov.rnment hospital establishherts; /h 1966; /i Negimning 1970, the duration of
general secondary enacation was reduced from 8 to 6 years; /j Includes program-  of 5 training centers operated by
Department of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by 'tinistry of Youth a.ad Sport; /k 19b3, /1 1964;
/m Omdurran, urban; /n 1967-68; /o 1978.
iiay 1983



ANNEX I
- 24-                                                                                       !'rJl
Dr? INIT.IrISh'IF n-t:A10. 1 gem ATOI
Korea:  Alhough thedata errdr.r-  r...e ....u-  geneall it,  .ds.-d the eua   eheclla-o   elfle    .I                   dcscb   ,tcttatte   a   u   e  ,treln  ly
eneparahl.  ecanse of    I.,fe-  cuf e-.d.rd-d  1lllliou   eudncnyateddd bydtteni-clee   lcnir-in    h  deb.    Tbdba.
de..rIbe. aed-enaaotae.c  -et   ee-.,a-efaanelr    eransso   d                                    rie
Th.raer   eteSaeIltesy   --iryec*n-itO    elc    onecd   2  ic-he r-u.si,e,s-liiilieaeac   Irr,    i,  ineu.-ueVto.i
*abjee telccci Icy 7 eirpi  tnr   iI9h In on-i  I ha teete'' geu.pabee  ''diddleItenbe thuei' Ott;'- ood  elfin,  oot'  the . ......,.c-'
tro    a   ectid   tha  Ind. . .    . 1 R ..  eneeof   Onti-t -sRbth-id -W-etor                 - Orcit-rc  clo- -nocnoyo   i-,lad                  uc,tue   ,uI Ion ..c..nei
APIf tcen   Isq--ks.)                                                                                  PopoIn"196),tt-n1etyl-.       oceitdadi      osr-IceI   e
-97   Tota9l se  eeae    intlltln   raad  nadste;191,lylFocTfTTnn   ibototnicuii   i fc,vtn  iel
toe cERps    sina    aeca,dsuht aAPIdAne en toP lie  fallen; I... h. ,                                   nern        ie
190ad   90tlc                                                                               PvoltetpiTl-ot,  hd     -i-t-rh-, icOcoe                         co  ilh,       Oe
960, 1970.  Id 1981, d-.                                                       I~~~~~~oh-t    n  rope,.  -1dfilui.i   -icW ecc.  ~-i
CPPti:PTL         20T-CN   yrkcitlteotleaeeenoelninrkl  ylne                                                anfla         h-lpchlleaoil   L, decloc-ct  -i......-
cacootd  y  ar  0-.1-cenic  enhod4, or O,df gait pI   1190.19-RI .. ha            981                    teallalnt-ntclRn l .dn-it-t  -ir-nuri clc
l9hO   191, an  191 daa.                                                                          bcat nIf      one dfhy,db   b I-en    b-n  fctno                    toctc ..c-
1960,  1910. and   1990 dle 197hdo beeyd-tIfciio.tiiipIebl
P      PPCiTt1  1thh Ic :toibAQ hpte htlrd ieptl  on-1i: on   itci,dt1
Total PooIst ico   r2Mcf00 -t Iosne      oo    ep1    6,17.ad 1991O                              ndaittien    I'ee iio'loI"  Ac   - ncil nonte- ofy ado n-mt -'or          cet
data.                                                                                         lens hoapitala ~~~~~~dd  "ydiIe tyncnrhtohde
arongc'conef--   IlbO,1911., an  I'llfdle                                                           derab    Ir  o  lc-inol  Ipetoo.n.iioc..td  -i7ol  -ehr,                           -d o
tea  d-plto    yai  n  inadirrnraIiyadlfet-iity                           l                     lltno-1.EceodfoIi-laloyIroe
year.. ib_the gataneeer El fft-pIrtt   at  eo  iei-olcoocoie    ar.
plannIng  yrnfornance.  Pnotyoontry  in then a,rictcd-crc  I-i  iro  nineI Cc              -et      -naa  illot   lit, tin  Ir-nlo   nhr0Oete  oI   erefo
teth tln   I  ni_ c   n  fin-  t-lte trendy  thepoolonpnee.nOttl   ren   e   ed  dcllg,                                                        eoriei
Stoitenar~~~ponr,llii~~n-lrertat tenaro yopolattcn ihere io no pronto~~~~                                   ~L
btnerthn  hirto  mb   it eooei  cc Inn death rote, end olto tue~~~~~~~"d. agebt                           df         df- PgCCoTIoc
ttetillf yfaic  tneeLa                                                                            -p let  cetiet,i. olanle2      n
popolatlo  ati-l  trenci.teondrc   heel .ll   - - tti,nI   n  te.-onr:e
6oglai...-cn  OenoI-iki.gedocat- lenrqlccehiet  nrren  ea'Ico1re
Peero,  s  - 9,1 ceor  cpolat~n yet  roapr  r  -oene    10fecae)o                               ecde    eea-oacet,o   ece  lro:ciig on-net len  fo
94 ..e  ,sdrnee    h   er   n .c......eenttedI- gf aI-year                         d                    entten   t  eatenne  ionan  ctcoI
Peroei,,, CRoe.   et    ne )-ain-ocolggetrtee   ra                                                     etitrc,rt    I -ecc  -  Ltrat-e   ioto leel  no teed end  clr
pepolecleoa  lot 1 9-l-hC , i 90-00. an   911-01.  ar pi-nrotapd  cf tona  aolt  e-p-o bc Ionagd 15 yaI   adver
Cedn D-f   at    c   hooo    Moo    cefire  p-e thn-ad   fl ed-.ear                                   pae.e-gn  Cart (cnn th,e-nad nplcc                pteeecr
poplctco   Idle.  -00  en!te              _t.                                                           naoatht   eethn-gh   eot ; tnheno- to -                       ten hneieon
InhlOyett9oehyIIo-etcncocedn   o1960, 1973, ood                                                        Iec ta'b to  rnne phobLtn pet tontone                  y offo-oloco              ,dncodt  n
1991.                                           -                   Ittetssdeeceinrricneoooteiesaegco  hence chin  cigittra  ien of radio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h .... ?--
Fasil  Plentoc-Cer. Iretnen ef  arrie  egoel -  eeeene0g n  tarred                    geeral   etl-nper               Ifvied rontet tnt et  -dinor.l-crnadheeceniyi
oPrI   bbI  -1-0                                                                                                                                         eo,e-rtt;    --c-r0dl  I-
bi    feo    cdt1n0Crn_te~tlt        Oc ff pet ceylte                                                                                                   'eT c    n- .,dct-nnodee
anroalpeedoccteoo(~~allcoeagans      eeete    eleeteedTVhndtynR-rrnagai-otf
le    ad  r  ocaenaefartaig    Ccndrtt  eseprsay   gdrfag.Cnea  ene  Otten 2ne  nte  ace    een2tdnb                                                              oteg
based nn tat  nnel aeresgepeodogee onc   Ca tets;    d61-5y190, ant190
data.                                                                                        LtRl~--1   I%bI.dbl    d   dd__  I.t  .F-OlIOd-
Pa   ,d aa cIdo,adlnIyren   fedtrnnni-Ccee   rn.,?~o    ac   tioae)-tncfclnetn    aein    oldn    rn
anryqovlnie   etfo   aeieaaalal   n  erryprccpt  pefrtsad   nnlte   onec1010onnaer,todnr,  t.  cvrn
da.   ealal  app hr  opentnortl "nndoeio   eot   etrgltn    falae.--.I
setete.andotagetretolc. tntcoplic   ercndrnia  I  ard  sees,                  aspr.ta;, 960  P91  n    I  data.I -f~                                 b-
qeattteseedto  oconrnctooe  ad Icer  to dctrbntnt                            Feal  Irein)-rnatiheIrracpeetg    Itotllaei                                    fre
= dnt                                                                                                             itI                           dde ae    eFaOteie tollrttonO    n   ontegeo  oeietet1-lbr   ecI   an t,tneto   otn    n
sdt-   y n;      elt   oe dr  gettoefolrer aoe  bI ngha.IcnIaatr  ootg    tr-a-aertre   II,.l-dr 90   a,
st  ed   r  dy jsetnlto  p -aee Ind-lali1-pecn   Iecst                                                    eetr    errn   -lbrtec tRIig FORroiIo,nntatrt
at teeaeigld  laell 19b-ht, I ld and  ld, dat,                                  and elelrlclir   eater  nd pac c  ye ecetepe 01toIel.laor Inecl 196-.
Pa  ata  opec1pern Idnc    c   aineetcoetyrprcpt                                                       90ad19    aa
net soypy oc tco   err dan    precytro on   a  elndanaoo                                     Pstnpto    ar     eer      rtt  ac   o  te                    cp__rtintpaln
peln   coel.  fittet 10 c-kaaa  ,hod h   nnlpvee                he                                OO   9U  arc19              d do 19trne d     ree ,erancIaIOnee
ThIrd Ovid Food  orceet   96t-tt,  970 and1980 est.                                tocenie inrnoennr talo  - latn ef pnotatlvn   nter 19and h__ad v.eFt
Pa   aIt Zefenrrlh   fr--van feannil reIeet-n   o-pet efIg-1roetcba laor ftn
dale.                                                                                  tf.nRetR dOlt i oteT~-I1.7910RII I f,  toto
1cn -iotaadele   teen                                                                            Idetale.16    I9-  nd19  dIta,I . I bhelda
at tteiht  10n3. tel-I ae9d ~ en. data.  ado-  bni inee1-tnte    sibencdset.natlr
ancea nt-tetr si                -P ro Y fre   roec -d  trccic If .- - a enseci                     ear   _ I aco    eirn  -nae    ce   cin-Ocd
f    srcr6 tsoervtih Ideeipeiins  niaioa  'aAsre   fintirettc'oty                                                            r inrcndr,-dcmie rl
erhaseeapehl.  tontaoertaod,sc   cc-etrOeu  a<r   eci  cci  ele.          lerI al,,edicescr  fi  hior reittofftofti. I
ft   a   -ivr  anf   l-onaIe   s  brng9n ntesnei  coisots                                     eIaer197 irtto19 trod          tolf   oneli-cs  edineet
raid   - hon'iec ot inonle  (tie 97, nrbee  eo.i :.I                                                                                                                     I
ftEyCftetnd -tel-11 crl -n Io-o i1icl    u    i   lhottnt-t o                                                                                   nenl   n   eia    rn           nae
9,-a       --ri  m    atesItOnae-tir  yetn__tP_srf  pt                                                                               sanef   nuityis  it  Pel       5tlr.tpsrs
't..Id          ~fstl stLI,e                                                                                                                            Say 191111    d  97  -   f



ANNEX I
2 25 -                               Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS DOHESTIC P_ODUCT IN 1981/82 1/                           (X, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.     X          1977/78-1981/82    1977/78-1981/82
CDP at Market Prices           8,894.4   100.0                 8.0                  0.1
Gross Domestic Investment      1,051.7    11.8                11.4                  4.4
Gross National Saving           -248.6    -2.8               - 2.6                -24.8
Current Account Balance       -1,300.2   -14.6               -30.6                -23.9
Exports of Goods, NFS             787.8      8.9             - 2.7                   1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          2,246.3    25.3                 9.8                 11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981/82
Value Added 2/      Labor Force 3/           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    X        Mln.                   US$   % (of average)
Agriculture       2,989    36.5        3.93      70.3         760         52.0
Industry          1,139    13.9        0.40       7.2       2,840       194.5
Services          4,052    49.5        1.26      22.5       3,210       220.0
Total        8,180   100.0        5.59    100.0        1,460       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1981/82
(LSd. Mln.)       % of GD
Current Receipts                    890               12.3
Current Expenditure                 975               13.5
Current Surplus                    - 84             - 1.2
Capital Expenditures 5/             512                7.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                77/78   78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                            669.1   877.0   1,047.5  1,488.9  2,028.1
Bank Credit to Central Government       593.5   913.7   1,131.6  1,400.0  1,590.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                          490.8   652.9       814.3  1,118.6  1,560.9
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)           17.0    25.6       25.9      28.1      24.9
Bank Credit to Central Government        27.4    54.0        23.8      23.7      13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and Para'statals                      13.5    33.0        24.7      37.4      39.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the annual average effective
nominal exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Bank staff estimates.
2/ The last year of officially published national accounts is 1977/78; the data
presented here are the Government's own estimates presented in Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development; 1982/83-1984/85.
3/ Total labor force (est.); unemployed are ailocatqd to sector of their normal
occupation.  "Unallocated' consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their
first job.
4/ At market prices.
5/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other
public entities).
EA2DB
November 10, 1983



SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE ANI) CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82         MERCIHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1981/82)
(Millions US$)
US$ Mln.           Z
Exports Goods, NFS                 699        798        801         788
Imports Goods, NFS               1,321      1,564      1,827      2,246       Cotton                     179.1           35.9
Resource Gap                     - 622      - 765    -1,026    -1,458         Sorghum                     70.2           14.0
Interest, MLT Debt (net)          - 72       - 60       - 79      - 184       Groundauts                  47.1            9.4
Other Factor Payments (net)    - 69          - 59       - 88      - 1-92      Gum Arabic                  41.5            8.3
Private Transfers                  240        209        305        350       Sesame                      40.7            8.1
Current Balance                  - 451      - 615        809    -1,300        Other  -                    91.0           18.2
Public Grants                       17         84        122        174              Total               477.0          100.0
Direct Investment                  --          10         20         70
Public MLT Loans, disb.            618        615        540        420       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Public MLT Loans, amort.            30         42         52         97
Total Public Net                   588        573        488        322                                              US$ Mln.
Net Credit, IMF                     58        115        165        _ 
Capital Flows (incl. errors                                                   Public Debt, DOD, MLT                  5.096.0 1/
and omissions)               - 160      - 113          52        499
CTnange in Net Reserves                                                       DEBT SERVTCE RATIO FOR 1981/82
(- indicates increase)        - 50       - 54          66        235                                                _
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             18.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Annual Averages             End Period
1980/81       1981/82      Nov. 81   Dec. 82.        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1982) (Million US$)
Official:                                                                                                           IBRD      IDA
LSd 1 - US$        2.000/1.250  1.250/1.111    1.111         0.769
Effective:                                                                    Outstanding and Disbursed             46.8    339.6
LSd 1 = US$             1.580         1.230       1.111      0.769         Ui,disbursed                           2.6    259.0
Free Market:                                                                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         49.4    598.6
LSd I = US$              ---           ---        0.769      0.556
.t Not available.
1/ Total DOD (including IMF, outstanding arrears, and millitary debt) is, however,
estimated to USM7.3 billion as of December 31, 1982.
November 10, 1983



ANNEX II
- 27 -             Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of September 30, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                     Undis-
Credit No.      Year   Borrower  Purpose                 Bank    IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and twelve Credits fully disbursed:           127.2   144.9
Credit 364-1   1975   Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                 20.0    0.5
Credit 547      1975   Sudan      Education II                     10.0    0.8
Credit 614      1976   Sudan      Technical Assistance              4.0    0.1
Credit 727      1977   Sudan)                                       8.0    0.0
Loan 1467T      1977   Sudan)    Railway IV                12.0             0.3
Credit 781      1978   Sudan      Port                             22.0    0.1
Credit 782      1978   Sudan      Livestock Marketing              25.0   12.2
Credit 804      1978   Sudan      Mechanized Farming III           16.0    7.7
Credit 834      1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research            15.0    7.8
Credit 882      1979   Sudan      Highway II                       41.0    2.7
Credit 904      1979   Sudan      So. Region Agriculture           15.0    7.6
Credit 1000    1980   Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program            65.0    3.4
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan       Third Power                      65.0   32.9
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan       New Halfa Rehabilitation         40.0   33.9
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan       Blue Nile Pump Rehab.            32.0   25.4
Credit 1119 71 1981   Sudan       White Nile Pump Rehab.           35.0   27.3
Credit 1153 A1 1981   Sudan       Second Tech. Assistance           6.0    4.5
Credit 1181 /1 1981   Sudan       Western Savannah                 13.0    6.7
Credit 1201 /1 1982   Sudan       Agricultural Services            18.0   15.9
Credit 1233 /1 1982   Sudan       Second Port                      25.0   14.7
Credit 1388 /1 1983   Sudan   **Gezira Rehabilitation              80.0   78.4
Credit 1389 /1 1983   Sudan       Agric. Rehab. Program II         50.0   49.0
Total                                          139.2   749.9  331.9
of which repaid                              93.4    11.5
Total now outstanding                           45.8   738.4
Amount sold                     5.8
of which repaid               5.8              -       -
Total held by Bank & IDA                        45.8   738.4
Total undisbursed                                0.3   331.9  332.2
/1  IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 6 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million, SDR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million and SDR 46.4 million respectively.)
** Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                 (Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                                   Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and        Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972            Textiles                                 1.9    0.3      2.2
1976            Cotton Textile Mills                       8.7    1.3    10.0
1978            Seleit Food Production Ltd.               11.0    1.2    12.2
1978            Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.            6.7    1.4      8.1
1980            Sudan Cement Company                        -      0.2     0.2
1982            White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.               -      0.3     0.3
Total gross commitments                   28.3    4.7    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                    6.7    0.5       7.2
Total commitments now held by IFC         21.6    4.2    25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                   1.1    0.4      1.5



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
S U D A N
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:    Ten months
(b)  Preparation by:                       RBPC/Consultants
(c)  Initial Discussions with
Association:                          October, 1981
(d)  First Bank Mission:                   October, 1981
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:          September, 1982
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:           February 24, 1984
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    June 30, 1984
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank staff would assist in the Transportation Cost Review (para.
60)
III.  Special Conditions
(a)  Enforcement, not later than January 1, 1987, of vehicle
dimensions and axle-load regulations and vehicle import
specifications(para. 35);
(b)  Reorganization of RBPC not later than June 30, 1987 (para. 36);
(c)  Revised formats of annual estimates of RBPC expenditures to
clearly distinguish maintenance expenditures (para. 42);
(d)  Monitoring and annual assessment of equipment availability
against agreed targets (para. 48);
(e)  Annual review and approval by the Association of RBPC road
maintenance budgets and physical targets and implementation
programs; implementation of highway capital investments programs
as agreed by IDA (para. 49);
(f)  Certification of apprentices (para. 52);
(g)  Establishment of Training Production Unit within RBPC by July 1,
1985 (para. 53);



- 30 -                    ANNEX III
Page 2
(h) Adoption, by June 30, 1986, of a coordinated highway and railway
investment program covering the three-year period FY 1987-1989
(para. 60);
(i) Completion of a Transportation Cost Review under agreed terms of
reference by December 31, 1984. Based on the findings of this
review and upon discussion with the Association, Government to
maintain appropriate fuel prices (para. 60).



20 22eN                                 260                  2r                                      32     'C.          3A        Too3l    t 
SUDAN                                                                                                                           .
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT 
TrnportNetwork                          AA               EULC<
B  E.P U B   c    OF    E GY PT                                                                22-
Woi Half.
L I B YA 
20,
DONGOLAi
It.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K,-H
K0o~~~~~~~    -           ------ID-EDN
Dan.ira               .EL PAS~HER            -
2      oIin, H..,                                                                                                         ED                / 
K                                                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~.  DA~~~~~~~~MAZN " <
A    M2~~AKA1           I DA    0i
KAD
-12 R~~~~  A'                                             -ol
O ~  THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                   '.          /BOBR
Fe-res (2 at Ed D.e-m)                                                       *A,
PREVIOUS BANK PROJECTS           T.&,,
Second Highway Praiet (Credit882-SU)b"\JJ.UBi                                                                                 
Construtio  to  iumnu P-ed Standard                       .~~ C             \,oe~
Workshop Construt-o                                     -5 ~ 4~f.                         *            ..
.  *.   ****.  ~           KENYA           O
-.   E.istir,g Roads                                                                \    .A,t~~ia                             *
--- Main Roads Under Construtio-~A<~"                                                                                                                              $EP
Grovel .    Roads,, Includig Roads Under ConstructionNml
Secondary Roads, Urs.rf aced                                                               U    0    A',,N    D   A                                  
-- Other Roads, Im,proved                                                               L                   -
Tracks                                                                               )            oGl
* RBPC Workshops0                                         0       20         0         c                 iiOO,5                  ) HA        I Karsn
2   A   Other WMorkshops Plataed                                    KILOMETERS                             i50o'.oa                                                
Ropids or Waterfalls                                                                                                                          s u  D
oJ--Major Dams                             0    Town  and Villages                                                                                           I,i
Airports, Airfields                    *    Regional and Provicial Capials                         iawse.,                         .r       -JBHO                      "v0
Roilrood,,                      *O           Notionl Capital1 
P,pelines                        R~~~~~~Inernaioal Boundaries                          .,o.rn,.noo0
L  Swampy  ,24       OP                                          23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O



