OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1450 SU
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1450 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1984, between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SU AN (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower or Sudan) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (here-
inafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, daced June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "RBPC" means Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
established under the Borrower's Roads and Bridges Public
Corporation Establishing Regulations 1973, or any successor
thereto.
(b) "PPU"   means  the   project  preparation  unit  of  the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,500,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out nf the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989, or
such  later  date  as   the  Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall   reasonably  request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Bkrrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1994, and ending October 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of
the Project through RBPC and Part C through PPU, with due dili-
gence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist RBPC and PPU to carry out
Part A (a) and (b) and Part C of the Project, respectively, the
Borrower shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
employ,   or    cause   to   be   employed,   consultants    whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected   in   accordance   with   principles   and   procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association, on a
quarterly basis and within 30 days of the lapse of the calendar
quarter concerned, all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all appropriate steps
to ensure that the master mechanics and electricians, who shall
have successfully completed the training under Part A (a) of the
Project, be duly certified.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower Shall, no later than June 30,
1987 (or such other date as the Association may agree), implement
a plan satisfactory to the Association to improve the organiza-
tion of RBPC.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going: (i) the Borrower shall, by July 1, 1986 (or such other
date as the Association may agrec), revise the formats for the
annual estimates of RBPC expenditures in order to enable RBPC to
distinguish clearly its road maintenance expenditures from other
expenditures; and (ii) the Borrower shall, by July 1, 1985 (or
such other date as the Association may agree), establish within
RBPC a Training Production Unit, such Training Production Unit to
be adequately staffed and equipped to the satisfaction of the
Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A
(b) of the Project, cause the Khartoum Polytechnic to offer annu-
ally ten places to RBPC personnel in its three-year highway tech-
nician courses.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Pro-
ject, of RBPC and PPU.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such


﻿-6-
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) undertake a Transport-
ation Cost Review on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association and complete this review not later than December 31,
1984, or such other date as the Association may agree; (ii) dis-
cuss the findings of this review with the Association; and (iii)
based on the findings of this review and the discussion with the
Association, maintain appropriate fuel prices.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause RBPC to take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provi-
sion satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
(b) (i) The Borrower shall cause the roads included in its
highway system to be adequately maintained and shall cause all
necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accordance
with sound engineering practices and shall provide promptly, as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired  for   such  maintenance  and  repairs;   and  (ii)  until
completion of the Project, the Borrower shall -annually exchange
views with the Association on the maintenance and repairs
required for such roads.
(c) Without any limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going paragraph (b), the Borrower shall:
(i)  (1) (A) by November 30 of each year, prepare and
submit to the Association a plan for the mainte-
nance budget requirements and physical targets of
RBPC for the following calendar year, such plan to
be acceptable to the Association; and (B) by
November 30 of each year (starting in 1984), pre-
pare and submit to the Association proposals for
the implementation of its highway capital invest-
ment over the following three-year period, such
proposals to be acceptable to the Association; and
(2) promptly upon receipt of confirmation of the
Association's acceptance, take all appropriate
steps (A) to release funds to RBPC in accordance
with such requirements and targets; and (B) to
begin the implementation of such proposals;


﻿-7-
(ii) monitor the availability to, and utilization by,
RBPC of equipment and vehicles against annual
targets found acceptable by the Association; and
(iii) by June 30, 1986 (or such other date as the
Association  may   agree),  adopt   a  coordinated
highway and railway investment program satisfac-
tory to the Association covering the following
three-year period.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1987 (or
such other date as the Association may agree), take measures
(including, where necessary, the issuance of administrative
measures) satisfactory to the Association for the regulation of
vehicle dimensions and axle loads (including the regulation of
vehicle import specifications), and shall, thereafter, take
adequate action to enforce said measures consistently.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                             is hereby
specified for the purposes of      ection  12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the; earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Represeritatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                       Telex:
EIMAR                               324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By     I-IDv                 LAA4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                6,700,000         ( 100% of foreign
tools, spare                               ( expenditures,
parts, fuel                                ( 100% of local
and bitumen                                ( expenditures
( (ex-factory
(2) Two ferries               1,950,000         ( cost) and 60%
( of local e*
( penditures. for
( other items
( procured
( locally
(3) Consultants'
Services:
(a) for RBPC:            2,860,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) for PPU:               730,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated               3,260,000
TOTAL     15,500,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement p2rcentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated, after
consulting with the Borrower, that the amount of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient tc finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Asso-
ciation may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Cate-
gory and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expehditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 11 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are: (i) to initiate
ir,proved planning and execution of road maintenance works; and
(ii) to carry out studies of high priority for main and feeder
roads; to that end, the Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   RBPC
(a) Improvement of workshop organization and management,
spare parts management and equipment rehabilitation, training of
workshop personnel and strengthening of planning and road
maintenance capability.
(b) Training of road maintenance personnel (including the
establishment and operation of a Training Production Unit).
(c) Acquisition of workshop tools and equipment, road
maintenance equipment and spare parts, fuel, bitumen and training
aids and equipment for the Khartoum Polytechnic.
Part B:   Ferries
Acquisition of two ferries for the Nile crossing at Ed
Dueim.
Part C:   PPU
A highway organization and investment study outside the
three regions in Southern Sudan (including the establishment of a
pavement evaluation unit).
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition (July 1980 Edition)
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), o1 the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and for-
ward to the Association as soon as possi--p. and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the pub-
lic of the first tender, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifi-
cation to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain .to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.f.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Sudan


﻿- 14 -
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Sudan
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking int- account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, te lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿-15-
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the low-
est evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Contracts for spare parts and components for rehabilit-
ation and repair activities included in Part A (a) of the Project
may be awarded after obtaining quotations from at least three re-
putable suppliers from three different countries or, where such
goods are proprietary in character, they may be purchased direct-
ly from the original suppliers.
(b) Contracts for workshop tools and equipment, fuel and
bitumen,   training  aids   and  equipment   for   the  Khartoum
Polytechnic, included in Part A of the Project may be awarded
after obtaining quotations from at least three reputable
suppliers from three different countries.
(c) Contracts for goods, whose estimated individual cost is
$50,000 or less, may be procured on the basis of local competi-
tive procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association, pro-
vided that the total cost of the contracts so awarded shall not
exceed $500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued, to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 16 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsisten with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such    contract, together with   the analysis of the
respective  bids, recommendations    for  award  and  such   other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the al of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


