CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 522 IN
Madhya Pradesh
Agreement
(Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 18, 1974


﻿MADHYA PRADESH AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1974, between THE STATE OF
MADHYA PRADESH acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Madlhya Pradesh)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies  equivalent  to  sixteen  million  four hundred  thousand  dollars
($16,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that Madhya Pradesh agrees to
undertake the obligations toward the Association hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Agricultural Refinance Corporation has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS Madhya Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (a so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Madhya Pradesh shall cause MPDDC to carry out Parts A, B,
C, D, and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿4
with sound agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Madhya Pradesh shall, and shall cause MPDDC to: (i) maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request, concerning the Project, the services and
the operations and financial condition with respect to the Project of the agency
or agencies responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. Madhya Pradesh and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Madhya
Pradesh and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance of
their respective obligations under this Agreement, the Project, and other matters
relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 2.04. Madhya Pradesh shall take all action which shall be necessary
on its part to enable ARC to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement
and shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC or of
Participating Banks associated therewith.
Section 2.05. Madhya Pradesh and the Association shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either
of them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall cause MPDDC to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit relent to MPDDC by ARC against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by MPDDC to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Madhya Pradesh shall
cause MPDDC to ensure that all goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿5
of the Credit relent or made available to MPDDC to be used exclusively for the
Proje ct.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, MPDDC shall
be appointed as sole procurement agent for all items financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.09. Madhya Pradesh shall take all steps necessary to ensure that
consultants acceptable to the Association, recruited upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, will be employed by MPDDC to assist the Unions
in dairy plant engineering, dairy marketing, dairy processing engineering, mass-media
communications and tropical pasture/animal production.
Section 2.10. Madhya Pradesh shall make available, quarterly in advance,
based on estimates prepared by the Unions: (i) to the Unions through MPDDC
*         funds required to carry out Part Cl of the Project, and (ii) to MPDDC funds
required to carry out Part C2 of the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall, or shall cause MPDDC and the
Unions to, take all steps necessary to promote the establishment of approximately
1200 DCS in the Project Area not later than July 1, 1980, or such other date
as the Association shall agree. The DCS shall be established under by-laws in
conformity with a model acceptable to the Association and shall have been
empowered, inter alia, to act as centers for milk collection and for supply of all
technical inputs necessary for accelerating milk production.
(b)   Madhya Pradesh shall make available to each DCS, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, as and when such DCS is established: (i)
equipment for milk testing, first-aid and artificial insemination; and (ii) the
operating deficit, if any, of each such DCS during the initial period of its operation.
Section 2.12. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall take all steps necessary to promote
the establishment of three Unions of DCS not later than April 1, 1976, or such
other date as the Association shall agree. The said Unions shall be established under
by-laws acceptable to the Association and shall be empowered to, inter alia, (i)
assist the DCS in organization and management; (ii) establish and supervise milk
and cattle feed transportation; (iii) process and market the milk collected from


﻿6
its members; (iv) operate feed mills; (v) provide animal health and breeding services
to DCS members of such Union; and (vi) organize training and extension programs.
(b)   Madhya Pradesh shall at the recommendation of MPDDC, make
available to each Union, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the start-up
costs and initial operating deficits of the Unions, such financing to be in the form
of share capital, redeemable at par value.
Section 2.13. Madhya Pradesh shall make available to MPDDC, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, its start-up costs and initial operating deficits,
in the form of redeemable share capital.
Section 2.14. Milk producers' unions and cooperative societies in the Project
Area in existence at the time of the execution of this Agreement shall not be
eligible to participate in the Project.
Section 2.15. Madhya Pradesh shall establish and operate a calf-rearing
subsidy program in the Project Area.
Section 2.16. Madhya Pradesh shall cause MPDDC to make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association to: (i) train consultants and executive staff of
MPDDC and the Unions, and Union spearhead teams for DCS implementation;
(ii) provide first year field supervision; (iii) furnish consulting services to effect
a dairy marketing study; and (iv) assist in the preparation of specifications for,
and evaluation and award of, tenders for construction of the dairy plants and feed
mills.
Section 2.17. Madhya Pradesh shall phase out operations at its dairy plants
in the cities where Union milk is marketed upon commencement of production
at the Union dairy plants.
Section 2.18. Madhya Pradesh shall ensure that not later than January 1,
1982, the future role and status of MPDDC is reviewed with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MPDDC
Section 3.01. Madhya Pradesh shall cause MPDDC to: (i) at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, and carry on its operation, all in
accordance with sound business, financial and agricultural practices and under the


﻿7
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and
competent staff in adequate number; and (ii) take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. Madhya Pradesh shall cause MPDDC to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Madhya Pradesh shall cause MPDDC to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. Madhya Pradesh shall cause MPDDC to: (i) have an annual
audit satisfactory to the Association made of its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent and qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of MPDDC and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Madhya Pradesh shall cause all DCS and the Unions, as
and when they are established, to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by its Registrar of Cooperative Societies; (ii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial
statements of the said Unions for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit of the financial statements of the said Unions by said Registrar, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such othei information concerning the accounts


﻿8
and financial statements of all DCS and the Unions and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b)   In order to ensure the continuous monitoring of the accounts of the
DCS, Madhya Pradesh shall cause the accounts of all DCS to be inspected at least
twice a year by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, in addition to the audit
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c)   Madhya Pradesh shall appoint such additional staff as shall be necessary
to enable Madhya Pradesh to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this Section.
Section 4.04. It is the mutual intention of the parties to this Agreement
that after the Unions and the DCS are established and operational: (i) the DCS
own at least 75% of the shares of the Unions of which they are members; and
(ii) that the Unions own at least 75% of the shares of MPDDC. To this end, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   Madhya Pradesh shall offer to sell not less than 75% of its shares of
MPDDC, at par value, to the Unions, not later than January 1, 1980.
(b)   Madhya Pradesh shall offer to sell not less than 75% of its shares of
the capital of each Union, at par value, to the DCS members of such Unions,
not later than January 1, 1980.
(c)   these offers shall be made each year until the objectives stated in
Section 4.04(i) and (ii) have been attained.
Section 4.05. Madhya Pradesh shall make available equity financing required
to ensure that MPDDC and the Unions qualify for loans from Participating Banks.
Section 4.06. Madhya Pradesh shall take measures to assure that Participating
Banks make funds available to MPDDC and the Unions for investments and working
capital as required by the Project.
Section 4.07. Madhya Pradesh shall ensure that MPDDC and the Unions are
served by the optimum number of Banks selected in consultation with ARC.
Section 4.08. Madhya Pradesh shall not take any action to restrict the power
of the Unions to set, in accordance with sound economic and financial practices,
the price for their products, the price paid for milk collected from their members
and the charges to be paid by their members for services rendered to them by
N,


﻿9
the Unions, provided, however, that Madhya Pradesh may, in such cases as it shall
determine, consult with the Unions in respect of their selling price policies.
Section 4.09. Madhya Pradesh shall ensure the requisite availability of loans
under existing or new lending arrangements, to eligible members of the DCS for
minor irrigation for forage production.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. If the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify Madhya Pradesh of this
event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of Madhya
Pradesh and the Association hereunder shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such re(quest. The addresses so specified are:


﻿10
For Madhya Pradesh:
The Chief Secretary
Government of Madhya Pradesh
Vallabh Bhawan
Bhopal - 462-006
Madhya Pradesh
India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Bhopal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Madhya Pradesh may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary, Government
of Madhya Pradesh, or such other person or persons as Madhya Pradesh shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. Madhya Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Madhya Pradesh, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by Madhya Pradesh
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting  through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreemncnt to be signed
in their respective narnes and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s: Mervyn L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Pro cedures
1.    Contracts for the major pieces of equipment and materials for Parts A, B2
and B3 of the Project shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth
in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    With respect to breeding stock, semen and related equipment included in
Category 4 of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement, Madhya Pradesh
shall cause MPDDC to purchase such goods by inviting quotations from at least
three countries free from foot-and-mouth disease, to be selected in agreement with
the Association. All purchases under the said Category 4 shall be subject to the
approval of the Association as regards age, price, quality, source and suitability
of livestock and semen.
3.    (a)   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Contracts for goods other than those mentioned or referred to in
paragraphs Al and A2 above, shall be let on the basis of prudent shopping.
4.    Identical or similar goods shall be grouped together, whenever practicable,
for the purpose of procurement.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded, and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿13
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A': bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
India equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts with
respect to equipment and materials referred to in Part Al of this Schedule:
With respect to all contracts for such equipment and materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:


﻿14
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


