RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                     Report No. P-716
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT LOAN
June 5, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AID DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO01ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $17.0 million to
the Republic of Colombia, the proceeds of which are to be made available
to the Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed loan would be the Bank's fifth loan for agriculture
in Colombia, and the second for the benefit of INCORA. Two loans (18 CO
and 108 CO) for $5 million each to finance the importation of agricul-
tural equipment have been fully repaid. The third loan (448 CO) of
$16.7 million was made in October, 1966 for a livestock development pro-
ject; and the fourth loan (502 CO) of $9 million was made in June, 1967
to INCCRA for the first phase of the Atlantico No. 3 Irrigation Project.
3.        The agricultural credit project was identified as being of high
priority by a Bank mission which reviewed INCORA's program and operations
in 1967, and was subsequently prepared by INCORA with assistance from the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
4.       A Bank mission to Colombia appraised the proposed loan during
July - December, 1968, and negotiations were held in Washington during
May 6 - 8, 1969.  The Government was represented by Dr. )Aisael Pastrana
Borrero and Dr. G6itanf'rttln (Ambassador and Counsellor respectively of
the Colombian Embassy in Washington), INCORA by Dr. Hernando Durana and
Dr. German Arias, and the Caja de Credito Agraria, Industrial y 1Minero
by Dr. Eduardo Lopez.
5.        The proposed loan, which would be the thirty-eighth made to
Colombia, would increase the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to
$600 million (net of cancellations and including the $25 million loan to
the Banco de la Republica for the third Development Finance Companies
project which is submitted to the E :,cutive Directors together with this
loan).  IDA has made one credit of $19.5 million for highways to Colombia.



-2-
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to
Colombia as at April 30, 1969:
Amount (US$ million)
Loan                                                                  Undis-
No.   Year  Borrower                        Purpose      Bank  IDA   bursed
Fully disbursed                                    19.5
Total (less cancellations)                  313.8
345   1963  Acerias Paz del Rio, S.A.        Steel       30.0            2.8
369   1964  Empresas Publicas de Medellin    Power       42.0           17.5
448   1966  Government                       Agriculture 16.7            8.h
451   1966  Banco de la Republica            Industry    25.0            L.7
499   1967  Empresa Nacional de              Communica-
Telecomunicaciones               tions      16.0          12.2
502   1967  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria                 Irriga-      9.0           8.8
tion
534   1968  Banco de la Republica            Industry    1265          12.1
536   1968  Empresa de Acueducto y           lWater
Alcantarillado de Bogota         Supply    1.0           11¢4
537   1968  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                       Power       18.0          11.7
550   1969  Government                       Roads       17.2          15.3
551.  1969  Ferrocarriles Nacionales         Railways    18.3          18.2
552   1969  Government                       Education    7.6           7.6
575   1969  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.    Power       18.0          18.0
Total (less cancellations)                  558.1  1965   148.7
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                        i14.4
Total now outstanding                       4T3.7
Amount sold:                 1765
of which has been repaid    lL.2             3.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA              440.4  1965
Total undisbursed                           148.7          148.7
6.        Twenty-three loans have been completely disbursed.    Cn the
remainder, disbursements are proceeding normally.   See paragraph 6 of the
Report and Recommendation of the President on the loan for the third
Development Finance Companies Project (P-711).



7.        In the next few months, I expect to present to the Executive
Directors for approval a loan of about $18 million to the Government for
a second livestock project.
8.        IFE has made twenty-seven investments and underwriting commit-
ments in fourteen enterprises in Colombia totalling $14.9 million.
PART II - DESCRIPTION (CF THE PROPOSED LOAN
9.        The main features of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:             Republic of Colombia
Beneficiary:          The Colombian Institute for Agrarian
Reform (INCORA)
Purpose:              To assist in financing a four-year
supervised agricultural credit project
to improve productivity on about
2,5CO medium-sized crop farms (10 - 50 ha.)
situated in the Colombian Departments of
Tolima and Valle.
Amount:               The equivalent in various currencies of
US$17.0 million.
Amortization:         15 years, including 5 years of grace;
semi-annual payments beginning on
December 15, 1974 and ending December 15,1984.
Interest Rate:         Six and one-half percent
Commitment Charge:    Three-quarters of one percent
Relending Terms:      The Republic of Colombia will relend
the proceeds to INCORA on the same
terms as received from the Bank except
that the Republic of Colombia will
assume the exchange risk.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report on the project entitled "Colombia: Agricul-
tural Credit Project" is attached.



11.       Although agricultural production other than coffee has been
increasing at a rate of more than 4 percent annually, this has been
primarily as a result of the extension of the cultivated aiea.   Lack of
credit to finance modern inputs has been a major obstacle to improving
technology and increasing yields in Colombian agriculture. The need
for credit is estimated to be at least three times the present supply.
Credit from institutional sources (as opposed to rural money lenders)
reaches less than 3G percent of farmers and is rarely adequate for their
needs.
12.       The proposed project will help bridge the gap.   Of the total
project cost of $42.5 million, the private participants (farmers and
contractors providing services to farmers) would provide 41 percent. The
Government would contribute 19 percent, and the Bank 40 percent.    The
project's foreign costs are estimated at 29 percent, so that the proposed
Bank loan would include $4.6 million of local cost financing.    This seems
fully justified, especially since the Bank's share in the total cost of
the project would remain low. As set forth in some detail in the Bank's
latest Economic Report on Colombia (TNH 188-a of December 30, 1968), Colombia
has a well-conceived development program, is making every reasonable effort
to mobilize local resources in its support, but requires external assis-
tance in excess of the foreign exchange component of development projects
suitable for international financing.
13.       Of project costs, $39 million represents the cost of substantially
increasing the productivity of crops, principally medium-long staple cotton,
rice, maize, soya and beans, on 2,500 medium-sized farms in newly developing
areas within the Departments of Tolima and Valle. This total includes the
$17.3 million equivalent contribution of the private participants, and the
$21.7 million credit to be financed by the Bank and the Government, which
is to be additional to credit presently employed on project farms from
existing channels.
1.       Long-term credit for on-farm improvements, and medium-term credit
for machinery (tractors, combine harvesters, crop spraying aircraft) and
its ancillary equipment would amount to $10.3 million, almost half of the
total contribution of the Bank and the Government. (See Article IV of the
draft Project Administration Agreement.)    The remaining credit of $11.h
million to be provided by the Bank and the Government would finance about
one-half of the inputs of fertilizer, pesticides and machinery services from
contractors which are needed to attain the productivity goals of the project
and are additional to the amounts currently being used. The farmers are
to contribute the remaining half of these incremental working capital
requirements. (See Sections 4.05 and 4.09 of the draft Project Administration
Agreement.) This will strain their resources to the maximum since it will
not be possible for them to obtain financing for this purpose from normal
credit institutions.   To provide assurances that the Bank's contribution
will be only for the incremental portion of working capital credits, the
Bank has placed a limit on the total amount of funds which it will make
available for such credits in any one calendar year (Section 2.03 (a) of
the draft Loan Agreement).



15.       The project would also include $0.9 million for technical
assistance to strengthen INCORA's management resources for administering
the project. Finally, it includes $2.6 million to finance the preparation
by consultants working with INCORA of a feasibility study for the Cesar
River irrigation project, which had been identified as promising by the
Bank mission which reviewed the INCORA program.
16.       The agency with primary responsibility for implementing the proj-
ect would be INCORA.    INCORA was established as a public entity in 1961,
has a substantial degree of administrative autonomy and has become one of
the four principal agricultural agencies of the Government. It is
responsible for carrying out the land redistribution provisions of the
agrarian reform law, and has complementary objectives such as developing
unused and underutilized land and increasing agricultural production and
productivity. INCORA is presently implementing in satisfactory fashion
a broad program of supervised credits to small landholders.    Because
of the technical complexity of the Bank project, however, a new section,
headed by a Bank-approved credit specialist, would be established within
INCORA's agricultural credit division to handle the project. INCOIRA would
assume the commercial risk on supervised credits advanced under the project,
but the exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan would be assumed by the
Governwent.   The Government would also lend to INCORA, for 32 years,
including a 7-year grace period, at one percent interest, whatever reso rces
in addition to the Bank loan would be needed to carry out the project.,
INCORA would relend the funds received from the Bank and the Government
at 13 percent interest with terms of up to 10 years.    The Caja de Credito
Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja), the Government's primary agricultural
lending agency, would be responsible for the bulk purchasing and distri-
bution to farmers of fertilizer and pesticides. It would also establish
and administer, as INCORA's agent and for a management fee, the "Project
Account" through which the contributions of the Bank and the Government
would be channeled to the project farmers, would assist INCORA in evaluat-
ing the creditworthiness of loan applicants and wiould be responsible for
collecting repayments due from farmers.
17.       Farm machinery, ancillary equipment, and supplies needed for on-
farm improveme;nts would be procured by farmers through normal commercial
channels from importers or local manufacturers.    The remaining items,
i.e.,fertilizer, pesticides, and the vehicles for farm planners to be
procured by INCORA under the technical assistance portion of the project,
1/ The Appraisal Report for the project shows the Government contribution
as a grant since the change from grant to loan was negotiated after
finalization of the Appraisal Report.    The terms of the loan, however,
would not materially affect the Report's financial projections.



- 6 -
would be obtained through international competitive bidding. At the request
of the Colombian Governmaent, local suppliers would be granted protection
in such bidding up to a margin of 15 percent oi the actual customs duty,
whichever is the lower.
18.       The benefits from the higher levels of productivity generated
by the project should be such that, even with the approximately 12 percent
decline in the world market prices of medium-long staple cotton over the
next six years which is projected in the IBRD Report entitled "Cotton:
Past Trends and Outlook" dated May 9, 1969, the economic rate of return
of the project would be 25 percent. Moreover, the project would make a
substantial contribution to the Government's policy objective of alleviating
structural balance-of-payments defects by increasing agricultural exports
other than coffee.   The project would also benefit the farmers in the proj-
ect area in a major way. Without the project, and largely due to declining
cotton prices, annual farm incomes would decline by an average of about
35 percent below current levels after five years.  With the project, annual
incomes would increase over current levels by about 20 percent on irrigated
farms, and about 60 percent on rainfed farms, in the fifth year of the
project.
PARI? IV - LEGAL IhNSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
19.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank, the draft Project Administration Agreement between the Republic of
Colombia, INCORA and Caja, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of the Resolution of the Executive Directors approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
20.       The draft Agreements contain covenants normally included in
agreements for agricultural credit projects.  In addition thereto the Loan
Agreement contains specific provisions concerning the operation of working
capital credits (see paragraph 14 above) and contains procurement provi-
sions in Schedule 4. Additional conditions for the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement include the execution of the Project Administration Agreement
(Section 7.01 (a) draft Loan Agreement). The draft Project Administration
Agreement governs the relationship between the Government, INCORA and Caja,
A modification of such Agreement without the formal approval of the Bank
would constitute a default under Section 6.02 of the Loan Agreement.



PART V:  THE ECONOMY
21.       See paragraphs 20 - 22 of the Report and Recommendation of the
President on the loan for the third Development Finance Companies Project
(P - 711).
PART VI: COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII:  RECOMIENDATION
23.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
WVashington, D.C.
June 5, 1969



