CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 624 CO
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 27, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 624 CO
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 27, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1969, between REPUBLIC
OF COLOMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement ac-
cept all the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Ap-
plicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Loan Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms de-
fined in the General Conditions have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "INCORA" means Instituto Colombiano de la Re-
forma Agraria, established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower;
(b) " CAJA" means Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial
y Minero, established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(c) "Project Administration Agreement" means the
agreement between the Borrower, INCORA and CAJA for
the purpose of carrying out the Project;
(d) "Seasonal Credit Fund" means the revolving ac-
count to be established and maintained pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement; and


﻿4
(e) "pesos" and "Col. $" mean pesos in currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
SECTIoN 2.02. (a) The Bank shall open a Loan Account
on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan.
(b) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Loan
Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation shall be modified from time to
time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Loan Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Loan Agreement:
(a) the equivalent of fifty-four per cent (54o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made) for
seasonal loans included in Category 1 of the allocation of
the proceeds of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, provided, however, that, except as the Bank
may otherwise agree, the aggregate of all withdrawals from
the Loan Account under Category I of said allocation of the
proceeds of the Loan made before the dates hereinafter
specified shall not exceed the following amounts:


﻿5
(i) six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) before
July 1, 1970,
(ii) one million six hundred thousand dollars ($1,600,000)
before July 1, 1971,
(iii) three million  four hundred  thousand  dollars
($3,400,000) before July 1, 1972, and
(iv) five  million  five  hundred  thousand  dollars
($5,500,000) before July 1, 1973,
and that the aggregate of all such withdrawals made during
any twelve-month period ending after July 1, 1970 shall
not exceed fifty-four per cent (54%) of such amounts paid
for seasonal loans to farmers during such period as shall
exceed the amounts paid by such farmers during the twelve
months preceding such period for fertilizers, pesticides or
mechanized farming services;
(b) the equivalent of eighty-six per cent (86%o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made) for
loans included in Categories 2 and 3 and goods or services
included in Categories 4 and 5 of said allocation of the
proceeds of the Loan; and
(c) the equivalent of thirty-six per cent (36%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made) for
goods or services included in Category 6 of the allocation
of said proceeds of the Loan;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for items included in any of the
Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, the Bank may by notice to the
Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such
Category as required in order that withdrawals of the
amount of the Loan then allocated to such Category and not
withdrawn may continue pro rata with the payments re-
maining to be made for items included in such Category.


﻿6
SECTION 2.04., It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section
5.01 of the General Conditions, that withdrawals from the
Loan Account may be made on account of payments in the
currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (%. of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of six and one-half per cent (612 %) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Loan
Agreement to expenditures on the Project, described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
(i) the vehicles for farm planners, fertilizers and pesticides
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank


﻿7
in February 1968, and in accordance with such other pro-
cedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, and (ii) contracts for the procure-
ment of such goods shall be subject to the prior approval
of the Bank.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively in
carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to
time request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds
representing the principal amount of the Loan as provided
in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
SECTION 4.02. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit
of the Borrower and such other person or persons as he
shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause INCORA
and CAJA to carry out the Project in accordance with,
and subject to the provisions of, the Project Administration
Agreement and with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, financial and agricul-
tural credit practices, and shall make available, promptly
as needed, all funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿8
(b) The Borrower shall enter into a Project Administra-
tion Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with INCORA
and CAJA, providing inter alia for the lending to INCORA
of the proceeds of the Loan, the establishment and main-
tenance of a revolving Seasonal Credit Fund for seasonal
loans to farmers for fertilizers, pesticides and mechanized
farming services, the administration and accounting of all
funds received or expended for the Project, including the
Seasonal Credit Fund, the procurement and sale of goods
and services under, and the preparation and administration
of, loans to farmers and the financial administration of
consultants' services.
SECTION 5.02. (a) Part A of the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the Project Ad-
ministration Agreement under the supervision of a credit
expert, acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, and em-
ployed by INCORA upon terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) To the Seasonal Credit Fund there shall be credited
the equivalent of such amounts as shall be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for seasonal loans to farmers, the
amounts paid as principal of, or interest or other charges
on, such loans and all other funds made available by the
Borrower for the purpose of maintaining the Seasonal
Credit Fund. The Borrower undertakes that the net value
of the Seasonal Credit Fund (including the outstanding
principal on loans to farmers), after adequate provision
for operating and administrative expenses and for losses
on loans to farmers, shall at no time after 1973 be less than
the equivalent of one hundred seventy-one million pesos
(Col. $171,000,000), unless the Borrower and the Bank
otherwise agree.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower specifically
undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the seasonal credit available to farmers included in


﻿9
Part A of the Project will be inadequate to meet the
estimated requirements of such farmers for seasonal credit
for fertilizers, pesticides and mechanized farming services,
promptly to provide such farmers or cause such farmers
to be provided with such seasonal credit as is needed to
meet such requirements.
SECTION 5.03. (a) For the purpose of the training at
farm level of farm planners included in Part B of the
Project, the Borrower, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, shall cause INCORA to employ four agronomists
acceptable to, and upon terms and condiions sa'-isfac1ory
to, the Bank.
(b) For the pmn pose of carrying out Part C of tbe Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall cause INCORA to -mploy con-
sultants acceptable to, and to an oxdent and 1'0on fi n- and
conditions satisfactory to, the Bank.
SECTION 5.04. The Borrower (i) shall maintain or cause
to be maintained such records as shall be adequate to
identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof in the Project,
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the administration and opera-
tion of the Seasonal Credit Fund and the operations and
financial condition of INCORA and of CAJA and, in re-
spect of the Project, of the other agencies or departments
of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof, (ii) shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the Project, the operation there-
of, the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents, and
(iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Project, the goods and services financed out of the pro-


﻿10
ceeds of the Loan, the administration and operation of the
Seasonal Credit Fund, the administration, operations and
financial condition of INCORA and of CAJA and, in
respect of the Project, of the other agencies or departments
of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 5.05. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall co-
operate fully to ensure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the Bank
shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof, and each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Loan.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic condi-
tions in the territories of the Borrower and the external
debt of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
of the obligations under the Loan Agreement by the Bor-
rower or the departments or agencies of the Borrower re-
sponsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof, including INCORA and CAJA, or the performance
of the obligations under the Project Administration Agree-
ment by INCORA or CAJA.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any
part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related
to the Loan.
SECTION 5.06. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all


﻿11
restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories; provided, however, that
the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under
any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such
Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or corporate
resident of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.07. The Loan Agreement and the Bonds shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, issue, delivery or registration thereof imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
and the Borrower shall pay all such taxes, if any, imposed
under the laws of the country or countries in whose cur-
rency the Loan and the Bonds are payable or laws in effect
in the territories of such country or countries.
SECTION 5.08. It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Borrower undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, (a) the term "assets of the Bor-
rower" includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its
political subdivisions or of any Agency or of Banco de la
Republica or any other institution acting as the central
bank of the Borrower, and (b) the term "Agency" means


﻿12
any agency or instrumentality of the Borrower or of any
political subdivision of the Borrower and shall include any
institution or organization which is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the Borrower or by any political
subdivison of the Borrower or the operations of which
are conducted primarily in the interest of or for account
of the Borrower or any political subdivision of the Bor-
rower.
SECTION 5.09. The Project Account and related state-
ments shall be audited anially by an accountant or ac-
counting firm, independent from INCORA and CAJA and
acceptable to the Bank, and the Borrower shall cause CAJA
to transmit, promptly after their preparation and not later
than five months after the close of the fiscal year to which
they apply, to the Bank and INCORA certified copies of
such statements and a signed copy of the accountant's or
accounting firm's report.
SECTION 5.10. The Borrower shall promptly permit the
importation of spare parts to such extent as shall be re-
quired for the continuous and proper functioning of all
imported agricultural machinery and equipment and crop-
spraying aircraft.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTIox 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may by notice to the
Borrower declare the principal of the Loan and of all the
Bonds then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the interest and other charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, interest and


﻿13
charges shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing to the contrary in this Loan Agreement or in the
Bonds notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) The Project Administration Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof shall have been terminated, abrogated,
waived or amended without the prior approval of the
Bank or any covenant or agreement under the Project
Administration Agreement shall not have been performed;
(b) INCORA or CAJA shall have been unable to pay
its debts as they mature or any action or proceeding shall
have been taken by INCORA or by CAJA or by others
whereby any of the property of INCORA or CAJA shall
or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of INCORA or CAJA or for the sus-
pension of the operations of INCORA or CAJA.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Loan Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 11.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The Project Administration Agreement has been
duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower,
INCORA and CAJA, has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action, and
has been found satisfactory by the Bank;


﻿14
(b) INCORA has appointed a credit expert pursuant to
Section 5.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c) INCORA has appointed four agronomists pursuant
to Section 5.03 (b) of this Agreement.
SECTION 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 11.02 (c) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project
Administration Agreement has been duly executed and de-
livered on behalf of, and has been duly authorized and
ratified by, the Borrower, INCORA and CAJA and that the
Project Adminstration Agreement constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower, INCORA and CAJA in
accordance with its terms.
SECTION 7.03. The date of September 19, 1969 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 8.02. (a) The Minister of Agriculture of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
(b) INCORA is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sections 2.03
and 2.04 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿15
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Agricultura
Bogota
Colombia
Alternative address for cables:
Minagricultura
Bogota, Colombia
For the Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respec-
tive names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ MISAEL PASTRANA BORRERO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
Part A of the Project
1. Seasonal loans for fertilizers, pesti-
cides and mechanized farming
services                                 5,500,000
2. Medium-term loans for agricultural
machinery and equipment and crop-
spraying aircraft                        5,310,000
3. Long-term  loans for on-farm   im-
provements                               3,100,000
Part B of the Project
4. Technical assistance (services of one
credit expert and four agronomists)        450,000
5. 75 vehicles for farm planners              200,000
Part C of the Project
6. Cesar River Valley study (con.sul-
tants' services, equipment, materials
and construction)                          900,000
7. Unallocated                              1,540,000
TOTAL                               17,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories 1 to 6 shall decrease, the amount of
the Loan then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Bank to Cate-
gory 7.


﻿17
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories 1 to 6 shall increase, the Loan (i.e., in
the case of Category 1 an amount equal to 54% of such
increase, in the case of Categories 2, 3, 4 and 5 an
amount equal to 86% of such increase and in the case
of Category 6 an amount equal to 36% of such increase)
will be allocated by the Bank, at the request of the
Borrower, to such Category from Category 7, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as de-
termined by the Bank, in respect of the cost of the items
in the other Categories.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                (expressed in dollars) *
December 15, 1974                   575,000
June 15, 1975                       595,000
December 15, 1975                   615,000
June 15, 1976                       635,000
December 15, 1976                   655,000
June 15, 1977                       675,000
December 15, 1977                   700,000
June 15, 1978                       720,000
December 15, 1978                   745,000
June 15, 1979                       770,000
December 15, 1979                   795,000
June 15, 1980                       820,000
December 15, 1980                   845,000
June 15, 1981                       875,000
December 15, 1981                   905,000
June 15, 1982                       930,000
December 15, 1982                   965,000
June 15, 1983                       995,000
December 15, 1983                  1,025,000
June 15, 1984                      1,060,000
December 15, 1984                  1,100,000
* To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any por-
tion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to
Section 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions or on the re-
demption of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Sec-
tion 8.15 of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption       Premium
Not more than three years before maturity 1%
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity ............ 21/4%
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity .......... 3%%
More than eleven years but not more than
fourteen years before maturity ......... 5%%
More than fourteen years before maturity 61/2%


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A. The implementation over four years, starting July
1, 1969, of a supervised credit program, including
the establishment of a revolving seasonal credit
fund, providing to farmers of medium-sized crop
farms (10-50 ha) situated in the areas Tolima 2-4
and 5, and Valle 1:
1. additional seasonal credit for fertilizers,
pesticides and mechanized farming services, as
required to improve th present level of pro-
ductivity,
2. medium-term  credit for agricultural ma-
chinery and equipment, and
3. long-term credit for on-farm improvements.
The program also provides medium-term credit
for agricultural machinery and equipment and
crop-spraying aircraft to contractors who sup-
ply contract services to farmers in said areas.
Part B. The execution of an all-round training program
for farm planners until 1974 in the above-men-
tioned areas and the acquisition of appropriate
vehicles for such farm planners.
Part C. A feasibility study, suitable as a basis for ap-
praisal for future financing, of irrigated devel-
opment of about 60,000 ha in the Cesar River
Valley, the establishment of a 100 ha experi-
mental demonstration farm, the initiation of a
pilot project on about 3,000 ha and the prepara-
tion of an outline of a draft master plan for the
ultimate development of the entire irrigable area
of said valley, all to be completed by June 1971.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
The Borrower shall procure the vehicles for farm plan-
ners, fertilizers and pesticides to be financed from the
proceeds of the Loan through CAJA.
Prior to inviting bids, copies of the tender documents
shall be sent to the Bank for comment.
Before awards are made, the bid-analyses and recom-
mendatic is for awards shall be sent to the Bank; no award
shall be made before approval by the Bank. The timing be-
tween calling of bids and bid-opening shall be not less than
20 days and not less than 45 days between the award of
contracts and delivery.
In comparing bids by Colombian suppliers with bids by
foreign suppliers, the following rules shall be observed:
(a) Bid prices offered in respect of goods produced out-
side the territories of the Borrower shall consist exclu-
sively of the following components:
(i) the c.i.f. landed price of such goods,
(ii) the total amount of all customs duties and similar
levies in respect of such goods but only insofar as
the total of such duties and levies does not exceed
the equivalent of 15%   of the c.i.f. landed price
of such goods,
(iii) the cost of transportation of such goods from the
point of entry into the territories of the Borrower
to the depj, or storage room nearest to the place
where such goods are to be used, and
(iv) the handling and dealer's commission in respect of
such goods; and
(b) Bid prices offered in respect of goods produced or
assembled within the territories of the Borrower shall con-
sist exclusively of the following components:


﻿22
(1) the ex-factory price of such goods after deduction
of taxes and duties, if any, levied on the importa-
tion into the territories of the Borrower of com-
ponent parts of such goods,
(ii) the cost of transportation of such goods from the
factory to the depot or storage room nearest to the
place where such goods are to be used, and
(iii) the handling and dealer's commission in respect
of such goods.
Promptly after the execution of any contract and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, a copy of such contract shall be sent to
the Bank.


