RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                     Report No. P-89
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
January 13, 1971



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMNT ASSOCIATIOiN
REPORT AND RECOIN1NDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REFUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A WJATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $ 3.0 million
to the Government of the Republic of Botswana.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In September 1969 the Association was approached by the Govern-
ment of Botswana for assistance in financing a pipeline from the reservoir
supplying Gaborone, the capital, to Lobatse, the second largest town,
where water was running short following a succession of droughlts- In the
absence of a reliable supply at Lobatse, the abattoir, which provides 90
percent of the present exports of Botswana, might have to close down.
Subsequent consultants' studies, on which the present project is based,
also revealed a need to expand water treatment and distribution networks
for both Gaborone and Lobatse. A pre-appraisal mission went to Botswana
in April 1970 and an appraisal mission in June 1970.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington
at the end of November 1970. The delegation of Botswana consisted of:
Messrs. L. K. Lekalake, Permanent Secretary, MvIinistry of Commerce, In-
dustry and Water Affairs; P. M. Landell-Nlills, Director of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning; S. T. Ketlogetswe,
Under-Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning; C. J. Lang,
MBE, Director, Department of Water Affairs; and M. E. Beresford, Planning
Officer, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
4.        The Association has made two credits for projects in Botswana.
The first, No. 63-BEC of $ 3.6 million in 1964, was for a road project in
the then Bechuanaland Protectorate. The project was completed satis-
factorily and the credit has been fully disbursed. On January 15, 1970
the Association made a credit of $ 2.5 million to the Government of Botswana
for the Shashe Infrastructure Engineering and Preliminary Works Project,
INo. 172-BT. As of November 30, 1970 $ 1.5 million had been disbursed.
5.        Apart from livestock, Botswana's only important potential is
mining. Financing the infrastructure for mining is likely to be the larg-
est single intervention by the Bank Group in Botswana in the next few
years. Botswana's need for new sources of revenue is so acute that the
Government is anxious that new mining developments should come into opera-
tion without delay. The purpose of the engineering credit, No. 172-BT,
was accordingly to enaLle the necessary design work to proceed as fast as
possible while the complex financing and other arrangements for the con-
struction of the infrastructure for the Shashe mining project and for the



mine itself were being worked out. Botswiana has asked the Bank to help
in working out these arrangements and to consider a Bank loan to complete
the financing required for the infrastructure. The Canadian International
Development Agency has already negotiated a credit to the Botswana Govern-
ment of Can.$ 20.0 million for the power facilities, and USAID is currently
negotiating a loan of $ 6.5 million towards the cost of the pipe required
for the water supply. Other components of the infrastructure requirements,
including water treatment, storage and distribution facilities, road and
rail extensions and a new township are under consideration for possible
Bank financing, subject to the completion of satisfactory security arrange-
ments for a Bank loan and the conclusion of arrangements by the mining
company, Bmangwato Concessions Limited (BCL), to cover its oawn financing
requirements. It is expected that a proposal for a Bank loan can be pre-
sented to the Executive Directors before the end of the present fiscal
year. However, should the mining project be unduly delayed or not carried
out, BCL would be obligated to repay to the Association one-half of the
amount disbursed under the engineering credit, No. 172-BT.
6.        Concurrently with work on the Shashe project, the Association
has been helping to prepare a project to develop Botswana's other miajor
potential, livestock. A mission will visit Botswana shortly to appraise
the project with a view to preparing credit proposals for consideration
by the Executive Directors towards the end of 1971.   It is also planned
to appraise within the next few months a project to improve the road be-
tween Gaborone and Lobatse.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CRZEDIT
7.        BORR0IM:                Republic of BotstMana
MIEFICIARY:             Water Utilities Corporation
AHIOUNT:                Various currencies equivalent to
US $ 3.0 million
RJRPOSE:                To provide the towns of Gaborone
and Lobatse with safe and depend-
able water supplies, through the
construction of a pipeline, treat-
ment plant, storage reservoirs,
pumping stations, distribution
extensions and the provision of
ancillary equipment
AIMORTIZATION:          In 50 years including a ten-year
period of grace, through semi-
annual instalments of one-half of
one percent from June 1, 1981
through December 1, 1990, and of
one and one-half percent from
June 1, 1991 through December 1,
2020



-3-
SERVICE CHARGE:         3/4 of I$ per annum
RELE14MDfG TERMS:       Government loan to the Water
Utilities Corporation to be
repaid over 30 years, including
a five-year period of grace, at
7% interest
ESTM1ATED FDIAiTCIAL
RATE OF RETURIN:        12% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Gaborone-Lobatse
Water :upply Project - Botswana" (PU-54a) is at-tached.
9.        Botswana is largely arid.  The Kalahari Desert covers the center
and southwest, and the only potential water supply of major iraportance is
the Okavango Delta in the northwest, the water from which evaporates in
large swamps and salt pans. The population is concentrated in the south-
west, which has the best land.  Gaborone, the capital, and lobatse, the
second largest town, are situated in this region, where rainfall occurs
only from November through April, and is very irregular.
10.       The Nuane Dam, which normally supplies the town of Lobatse, has
not been refilled during the recent three years of drought, and since 1970
the toinm has been entirely dependent on emergency boreholes wihich at their
present rate of use will be exhausted early in 1972. Thus, if the Nuane
Dam is not refilled, Lobatse faces a possible total failure of its water
supply which would force the Botswana Heat Comriission (BIC) abattoir at
Lobatse to restrict operations severely or even close down. The economic
consequences for Botswana in general and the livestock industry in partic-
ular would be most serious, for the abattoir, with annual sales of the
order of $ 14 million equivalent, produces the whole of Botswana's exports
of meat.
11.       The dam on the Notwiani River just outside Gaborone has a large
catchment area which yields water much in excess of Gaboronets present
requirements. After considering various schemes, the consultants have
recommended the proposed project as the least-cost solution to the urgent
problem at Lobatse and the longer-term improvement of the water supply
system in both towms. A raw water pumping station and treatment plant
would be built at Gaborone to serve both Gaborone and Lobatse. A 32-mile
pipeline would be built from Gaborone to Nuane, where the water will be
pumped into the existing transmission line to the Lobatse distribution
system. Mlain extensions and reservoirs would be constructed in Ga')orone
and Lobatse. The project would include office and laboratory equipment
and equipment for pipe laying, metering and testing, vehicles and labor-
ers' housing. Technical assistance would be provided under the project
to establish an appropriate accounting and budgeting system.



12.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies and en-
gineerina services, is estimated at $ 3.3 million equivalent, of which the
estimated foreign exchange cost is $ 2.9 million, that is, 87.5 percent.
Except for that of minor distribution works which are not suitable for
IDA financing, the proposed credit would finance 90 percent of the esti-
mated cost, that is, the whole of the foreign exchange cost and a small
part of the local costs. The remaining $ 0.3 million would be provided
by the Government.
13.       The Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed credit
to the Water Utilities Corporation (ICC) for 30 years, including 5 years
of grace at a rate of interest of 7 percent a year.   The 1ITC was estab-
lished as a public semi-autonomous corporation in iiay 1970, to take over
responsibility for water supplies in Botswana.   On January 1, 1971, the
Government transferred to the Gaborone/Lobatse Division of the I4UC,
which will be responsible for carrying out the project, the existing fixed
assets for water supply in the Gaborone/Lobatse area at a valuation of
US $ 3.65 million equivalent. The WUC will pay this amount over 30 years.
The first payment of principal will be on July 1, 1976 and the last
on January 1, 2001; interest on the outstanding balance will be 7 percent.
However, the Government has agreed that these payments would, if
necessary, be rescheduled in consultation with the Association should
the financial position of WtC so require. It is expected that two other
Divisions wrill be created within the !WUC, one to operate the water supply
for the proposed Shashe mining project, and one for i;orupule, the site of
a coal mine to be opened up to supply the Shashe complex. Each Division
will keep separate accounts but will be under common management. To allow
time for the Gaborone/Lobatse Division to build up its own staff and orga-
nization, it will be operated under an agency agreement by the Department
of WIater Affairs for an interim period, ending not later than 1973, when
the proposed project would comae into operation.
14.       The Government has agreed to raise the average tariff for the
Gaborone/Lobatse Division as from April 1, 1971, and thereafter to review
the adequacy of the tariff every six months, to assure a rate of return
on net fixed assets of not less than 4-1/2 percent for the financial years
1972 through 1975, not less than 7 percent from 1916 and 1977 and not less
than 8 percent thereafter.  These rates of return should assure cash
generation sufficient to provide for a substantial contribution to the
cost of future expansion after covering all operating expenses and debt
service.  The internal financial rate of return of the proposed project
is estimated at 12 percent.
15.       The proposed project would not only ensure a safe and dependable
water supply for Gaborone and Lobatse, adequate for the next five to ten
years, depending on the growth in demand, but would lead to improved water
conservation practices. The increase in the tariffs required for the
future financial viability of the VIUC will discourage wastage, and the
Government has agreed to eliminate the large free water allowances now
accorded to Government staff and certain other classes of consumers.



16.       The BNiC plant at Lobatse has already established excellent water
conservation practices, but the abattoir effluents continue to contaminate
boreholes in the immediate vicinity of the abattoir and the river that
flows through the town.  At the instigation of the Association, the Govern-
ment has undertaken to ensure that BNC will study the pollution problem
and take the necessary control measures within thirty months.
17.       Procurement would be by international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA procedures. Disbursement would be against the actual
foreign exchange costs of imported goods and a percentage of expenditures
on civil works. It is estimated that disbursements will be completed by
the first quarter of 1973, but the construction schedule is very tight
and delays of six months or more are possible.
PART IV - LEGA,L 3ISTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Develoimient Credit Agreement betwieen the Association
and the Republic of Botswana, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Wlater Utilities Corporation, the Reco.mmendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed Development
Credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The
Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement generally follow the
pattern established for Association wiater supply projects.
PART V - THE ECQNOtIY
19.       An economic report dated October 10, 1969, on "iThe Economy of
Botswana" was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 31, 1969.
A basic data sheet is annexed.
20.       Botswana is one of the poorest countries in Africa.   The popula-
tion is largely dependent on livestock raising, wihich represents nearly
50 percent of GNP and provides more than 90 percent of all exports. Per
capita income is less than $ 100 per year and the population is thought to
be growing at about 3 percent annually. Although the cattle herd has been
increasing in the last few years, the traditional land tenure system,
which prohibits fencing on tribal land, and the general low standard of
range management are serious impediments to an improvement in the industry.
The country also suffers from frequent droughts.   The Government is con-
sidering proposals for modifying the land tenure system and also for im-
proving extension services. It has been estimated that by these methods
the national herd could be raised from about 1.5 million to 2 million.
21.       Botswana is a net importer of agricultural products.   Cultivated
agriculture suffers from droughts even more than cattle rearing. Sorghum,
maize, millet, and pulses are produced mainly for subsistence. The Govern-
ment's objective is to increase production by bringing newf land under cul-
tivation and by increasing }s.ields per acre. The short-term target is to



- 6 -
achieve self-su,ficiency in the main staple foods by 1975 through better
use of the existing extension services. In the medium- and long-term,
Botswana could become a net exporter of agricultural crops by developing
irrigated farming in the Okavango Delta in the northwiestern part of the
country.
22.       The most importarnt economic developments in the imnediate future
are concerned with the exploitation of newly discovered mineral deposits.
A new diamond mine at Orapa, 150 miles west of Francistowvn, will start
production in mid-1971 at a rate of 2 million carats a year, making it
one of the largest individual producers in southern Africa, although the
diamonds will be predominantly of industrial rather than gem quality.   By-
1974, if a decision is ta!:en to expand operations, output could reach 4
million carats a year. The Goveriment is to receive a 15 percent part-
icipation in the equity of the mining company as payment for the mining
rights.
23.       A second important mining project is the development of copper/
nickel resources in the Shashe area, in connection with which, as noted in
paragraph 5 above, the Bank is considering possible lending. The project
will require an investment of about $ 120 million by the mining company and
about $ 56 million by the Government for infrastructure. It is planned to
produce about 400,00 metric tons of copper/nickel matte and about 106,000
tons of sulphur per year. At that level of operation, annwul gross sales
would be of the order of $ 50 million. The present objective is to begin
production by August 1973. As in the Orapa project, the Government will
receive a 15 percent participation as payment for the mining rights. In
addition to these two projects, prospecting has revealed a number of other
promising mineral deposits which might lead to further production after a
few years.
24.       The development aind operation of these mining projects will pro-
vide some additional employment in Botswana, but its major effect will be
on the Government budget through the receipt of taxes, royalties and div-
idends. For several years Government expenditure has exceeded revenue and
the budget has received an annual grant-in-aid from the United Kingdom.
The Government's ability to increase revenue is severely lirmited, since
a large part of its revenue consists of a fixed share of the total customs
revenue of the southern Africa monetary and customs area of which it is a
member.  Hoiiever, the agreement which governs this arrangement has recent-
ly been changed, with the result that the Botswana Government will receive
substantially more revenue than it did in the past.   This, together with
the prospects of revenue from the new mining ventures, has brought the
prospect of financial independence for the Government much nearer. It
hopes to balance its recurrent budget by 1972/73. However, the financial
outcome of the mining ventures is subject to somle inevitable uncertainty
so that it will be some time before the Government's financial position
is strong. For this reason, as well as because of its great poverty,
Botswana should receive as much aid as possible on concessionary terms.
BorrowJing on conventional terms would be justified only in cases such as
the proposed Shashe M5ining Project, where the debt service can be covered
out of foreign exchange revenue derived fram the project itself.



- 7 -
PART VI - COIAPLNACE ' IITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit Agreement
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO1T1ENDATICN
26.       I recommend that the Executive Director approve the proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Botswiana in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to US $ 3.0 million.
Robert S. i4cNamara
President
Attachments
January 13, 1971



ANNEX
Page 1
LOT SWA.NA
BASIC DATA
Area aud Population
Area                                    232,000 sq. miles
Population (1970)                      643,000
Annual rate of population increase      3 percent
Population density                     1.1 per sq. km.
(2.8 per sq. mile)
Political Status
Independent Republic since September 1966.
M:e.ber of British Coimonwealth.
Regional Economic Association
eIember of the Sterling Area and the Southern Africa Customs
Union.
GDP at market prices (19`7/63)
Total                                  R 42.2 million
Per capita                            Ia 7v    ($ 98)
GDP at factor cost (1967/68)                ' 39.7 million
Ori in of GDP (1967/68.)                     (percent)
Agriculture                               46
Miining                                     3
Ilanufacturing                              i
Construction                               5
Trade                                       6
Transport and comi-,unications             6
Government                                 20
Other                                      11
10b
Commercial bank Statistics                   E-ad of MIarch
1968    196,    1970
Deposits (Rand million)            12.6     13.0    20.1
Advances (Rand million)              7.0     G.6    11).I
)Xatio of advances to deposits     56.W%   50.6%   50.3,%'



ANNEX
Page 2
Central Governmrent finances                 19C7/63     1968/69   1969/7'v
(Rand rillion)
Recurrent revenues (internal
sources)              5.7        7.0      10.2/1
Recurrent expenditures                   15.7        15.0      14.2/1
Recurrent deficit                        10.0         8.0       4.0/1
Development ex.penditures                 3.8         2.7/1     7.4/2
Total foreign aid disbursements          12.2         9.7/2     n.a
of which U.K.                         10.0         8.1       n.a
1967      1968
(Rand million)
L.erchandi_e ex-,orts                         9.2/2      7.5/2
of which livestock and livestock
products           8.5/2     7.2/2
.ierchandise imports                         22.4       23.2
External Public Debt                                ec. 31, 1969
(US $ million)
Total debt outstanding                            10.2
U.K.                                           (5.4)
IDA                                            (3.6)
Privately held bonds                           (1.2)
Total debt service (1969)                         0.6
IMF Position
Quota                                              3.0
Drawings                                         None
Exchange Rate                                 1 Rand    $0.714
January 13, 1971
/1 Revised estimates
/2 Estimates



