(i. 23t
FILE COPY                           R E ESTRICTED
Report No.   PIU-54a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BOTSWANA
January 6, 1971
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURREM=C EQUIVALENTS
Currency  Jnit               -         South African Rand
US$1                                   Rand 0.71
US$l million                          Rand 714.,286
1 Rand                                 US$1.4
Rand 1 million                         u US$1,4oo,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ig                           -        1 Imperial gallon (1 Ig -
1.2 US ,g 4 U.55 litersl
fl4g                                  million 2[mperial gallons
1.2 million US g)
IMd                                   million Imperial gallonB per day
(1 IDWd -1.2 million US g
per day)
Government                   -         Goverment of Botswana
BMC                          =        Botswana Meat Commission
DWA                          -         Department of Water Affairs
G14EU                                  Gaborone Water & Electricity Unit
Gibb                                   Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners
BPC                          -         Botswana Power Corporation
UNDP                                   United Nations Development Program
WtJc                         -         Water Utilities Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government       April 1 - March 31
W'UiC            April I - March 31



BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF TIfl, GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTMETS
Page No.
SIKIRY a7D CNCLUSIONS  .. .. .. . . . . . . . .. .
I.  INTRODUCTION   ...    . . . . . . ...  ......                1
II. THEWATERSUPPLYSECTOR  . ...............                       1
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . *. ..   . . ,         1
Legislative and Institutional Framework  . . . . . .     2
Village and Rural Supplies.  . . . . .   . . . . . .     3
Urban Supplies ... .a    . .  . .  . . . .  . . . . . . .  3
Private Systems  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
Government Development Program . . . . . . . . . . .     5
Sewerage   .. .. . . .a . . . =   a    .. . .   .. . . . . .  5
III. THE PROJECT  . . . .  . .    o .  o....  . . . . . . . . . . .  6
General Description  .      . ... . .. ... .. .          6
Engineering and Construction Schedule .     .            6
Optimum TiLxing of Pipeline Construction  . . .  .       7
Land Acquisition and Wlater Rights  . . . .       .      7
CostEstimates ...........  7
Procurement - Disbursement . . . . ..    . .. . . .      8
Ecology  .    . ..   * * .* *.    * * . .     . . . *    8
IV.  JUSTIFICATION  .9. . o .  o .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
V.  THE BEEFICAPRY  .............. . . .                        10
Recent History and Financial Performance . . . . . .    10
Wiater Utilities Corporation (,WJUC) .  . . . . . .  . o    11
Auditing . .  . . . . . . . . . * . . a . . . . . . a    13
VI. FUTURE FINANCES.. . . . . . . . . . ..    13
Capital Structure of tUC . . . . . a.. . . . . .  . .   13
Debt and Capital Expenditure Limitations . . . . . .    14
Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . .   14
Tariffs    .  .  o .    .  . .    .  . .    . .    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . .  . . . .. ..   15
VII.  AGR.EDDENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONIS . . . . . . . . .    16
This report was prepared by Messrs. R. C. Prevost, E. Greenwood and
N. S. Segal.



LIST OF A^.EXES
1        Description of .iajor Items in Existing Facilities
2        Past and Projected Demand
3        later Conservation and Tsaste rater Treati,!ent and Re-Use
at BiC Abattoir
4        Description of the Project
5        Construction Program
6        Estimated Costs and Savings through a Postponment of
the Gaborone-Lobatse Pipeline
7        Detailed Cost Estimates
8        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
9        Internal Financial Return
10        Income Statement Projections
11        Cash Flow Projections
12        Balance Sheet Projections
13        Assumptions for Financial Projections
1AP       Map of Gaborone-Lobatse area, showing location of
major supply facilities and route of proposed pipeline



BOTSIN,ANA
APPRAISAL OF THE GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUI.vIARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.          This report covers the appraisal of a project to provide
more water for the towns of Gaborone and Lobatse, for which an IDA
credit of US$ 3.0 million is proposed. Gaborone, established in 1965 as
Botswana's capital, is growing rapidly and the distribution system must
be expanded to meet future needs.  A critical water shortage is develop-
ing in Lobatse that would have serious implications for the economy
because the national abattoir, which provides nearly 90% by value of
the country's exports, is located there. Not only is a new source of
supply needed in Lobatse, but its distribution system needs to be
reinforced and expanded to meet the expected growth in demand.
ii.         The project consists of (a)  a raw water pumping plant,
treatment plant, storage reservoir, pumping stations and main extensions
in Gaborone; (b) a transmission line with pumping station and ancillary
ejiipment to link the Lobatze distribution system with the dam at
Gaborone; and (c)  ma-in ext-,tsions and a storage reservoir in Lobatse.
The proposed credit will inc,ude a small provision for technical assist-
ance in devising finaiwial procedures ar.d for the purchase of workshop,
office, laboratory, pipe-laying and testing equipment.
iii.        The IDA credit of US$ 3 million represents about 90% of
the project cost and will finance all foreign costs, except for certain
distribution works, and a portion of local costs; a Government loan
will finance the remainder. Except for limited distribution system
works being financed entirely from Qovernment funds, all supply and
construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
bidding in accordance with IDA procedures.
iv.         The Government will be the Borrower and the Water Utilities
Corporation (wmUC), a recently created semi-autonomous entity, will be
the Beneficiary.  On January 1, 1971, the Corporation assumed full
responsibility for the Gaborone-Lobatse water operations, and in due
course will also be responsible for water supplies for the planned Shashe
mining complex and perhaps other systems as well. Until now, water
operations in the two towns have been carried out by the Gaborone Water
and Electricity Unit (GWEU), a overnment agency. In January 1971, the
GWEU staff will be taken over by ths Department of Water Affairs (DWA)
and the newly created Botswana Power Corporation (BPC). Until the
Water Utilities Corporation becomes fully staffed in 1972/73, it wyill
execute its functions through contractual arrangements with NhA and BPC.
v.          For the Water Utilities Corporation to achieve a sound level
of financial viability, an 8'/ rate of return on net fixed assets should
be reached within five years of the project completion in 1972. Water
rates are being increased substantially to achieve this objective.



- ii -
Revision of the tariff structure to an increasing block tariff will
permit minimum nTater requirements to be met at a price within the means
of lower income groups and should discourage the currently excessive
non-essential consumption of water. Revision of the level and structure
of the tariff is one of several measures being introduced to encourage
water conservation.
vi.         The project's internal financial rate of return is estimated
at 121. The internal economic return is undoubtedly higher, because
the pipeline would preclude potentially large production losses at the
abattoir and because of health and other benefits that are not easily
quantifiable.
vii.        On the basis of the agreements reached during negotiations,
the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 3.0 million equivalent,
to be relent to the Water Utilities Corporation for a term of 30 years,
with a five-year grace period, at 7%0 annual interest,



BO7S, ITAM
APPRAISAL OF THE GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODJCTION
1.01        The Government of Botswana has applied for an IDA credit to help
finance a project, estimated to cost US$3.3 million equivalent, to expand
the water supply facilities serving Gaborone, the national capital, and
Lobatse, site of the principal export industry. The credi-t will be relent
to the Water Utilities Corporation (WUC).
1.02        Since the end of 1968, a series of Government-commissioned
studies on the water supply situation in Gaborone and Lobatse has been
under way. The Government and the U.K. Yinistry of Overseas Development
drafted the terms of reference for the consultants and supervised their
work. The consultants -- Merz and McLellan (South Africa) and later,
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Gibb) -- planned the future development
of the water facilities and proposed schemes to relieve Lobatse's imminent
water shortage. The project, for which IDA financing was requested in
October 1969, is based on the final report by Gibb.
1.03        The Bank Group has not provided any previous financing for water
supply in Botswana. Currently under Bank appraisal is the Shashe infra-
structure project, which would include water, power and transport facilities
along with a township and hospital to serve a planned US$180 million copper-
nickel mining complex at Selebi-Pikwe. The Bank loan proposed for that
project would cover  about 50% of the total infrastructure costs of around
US$59 million. The Beneficiary of the credit proposed for the Gaborone-
Lobatse project, the 'Water Utilities Corporation, will also be given
responsibility for managing and operating the Shashe water system upon
completion, if the infrastructure project is constructed.
1.04        This appraisal is based on the consultants' report and the
findings of the preappraisal and appraisal missions of April and June
1970.  The appraisal team included Messrs. Prevost, Greenwood and Segal.
Mr. Spangler collaborated with the mission for the appraisal of the water
and effluent problems of the abattoir at Lobatse that is operated by the
Botswana Meat Coimnission (BiC).
II. THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Introduction
2.01        Botswana (see Map), situated on a large plateau at an altitude
of about 3,000 feet, has an area of 235,000 square miles (about the size
of France).  The population of some 650,ooo is growing at a rate of 3% per
year. The largest part of the Kalahari Desert covers the center and the
soft1tett of the 'country.  The southeast, where the project area is located,



- 2 -
has the country's highest population density (20 inhabitants per square
mile) and the best agricultural land. Gaborone and Lobatse are on the
railway line that crosses the eastern part of Botswana and links Southern
Rhodesia to South Africa.  The main road follows nearly the same route
as the railway. Industry is virtually non-existent except for the abattoir
in Lobatse. The gross national product per capita is less than US$100.
Mineral exploitation shows bright prospects, however, particularly in the
north and east; in that area, besides the large diamond mine being opened
at Orapa, west of Francistown, the proposed Shashe infrastructure project
will be located and other ventures are contemplated.
2.02        Botswana's wqater resources are very limited.  Rainfall is low
and erratic, river flows even more unreliable, and evaporation extremely
high. The geology of the country is not conducive to good aquifers, and
in most areas where there is ground water the recharge is slow. An
exception to the general conditions prevails in the north, where the large
Okavango River spreads out into a wide area of lakes and marshes, whose
irregular outflow evaporates further south in several lakes and pans.
Economic use of these resources is presently feasible only within a limited
area.
2.03        Exploitation of Botswana's water resources under the above-
described conditions calls for comprehensive hydrological and hydrogeolo-
gical data, but only limited records are available. The situation should
be improved when the results of a  fi2DP survey now in progress become
available, which is expected in 1971-1972.  In the meantime, existing
information (including the yields of present sources) must be considered
unreliable.
2.04        Although the need for water conservation is apparent, up to
now Botswana has not had a conservation policy.  Domestic water is generally
free except in towns with conventional supply facilities, but even there
the water is sold below cost. Civil servan,xts have a free water allowance
of 20,000 Ig per month, a very high one,- and this practice of allowing
free water has spread to private companies. The Government has become
aware of the importance of water conservation and has enacted appropriate
legislation, which now requires enforcement.  Additional measures are
being put into effect (see paragraphs 6.01 to 6.09).
Legislative and Insuitutional Framework
2.05        The Waterworks Law of 1961 and the W-Tater Act of 1967 give the
sector a strong legislative framework.  Administered through the Water
1/   Specifically, up to 20,000 Ig per month are completely free for high-
ranking civil servants and the lower ranks pay only RO.50 per month
(US$0.70). But the Government pays the wiater authorities for the full
amount consumed. The generosity of the allowance may be gauged by the
fact that in many countries a monthly water consumption of about
6,000 Ig is above the average for most families.



- 3 -
Apportionment Board (whose members are appointed by the Minister of
Commerce, Industry and Water Affairs), the Water Act regulates the use
of public water and the issuance of water rights; it also provides for
pollution control and enforcement of emergency measures when necessary.
The Waterworks Law establishes the constitution, rights and duties of the
local water authorities. The two laws together cover the general
requirements of the sector and provide enough authority for policies to
be made effective. In addition, in May 1970 the Parliament approved the
Water Utilities Corporation Act, which provides for creation of a semi-
autonomous and commercially-oriented agency to run the larger, more
developed water supply systems (see paragraphs 5.06 et seq.).
2.06        Technical and administrative responsibility for the sector
is held by the Department of Water Affairs (DWA) within the Ministry of
Commerce, Industry and Water Affairs. In Gaborone and Lobatse, DWA's role
tends to be limited to engineering design, with the operating and manage-
ment responsibility being held by the local authorities. In the rural
villages, where its assistance is most needed, DWA carries out all the
necessary operating, maintenance and other technical activities. DWA is
also responsible for the equipping and maintenance of boreholes for
livestock watering throughout the country, after the Geological Survey
has sited and drilled the wells.
Village and Rural Supplies
2.07        In running the rural water systems, which are simple and have
few, if any, house connections, DWA is handicapped by the lack of skilled
personnel, the scarcity of water and the difficult terrain. The limited
amount of water generally consumed by the rural people (about 2 to 5
gallons per person daily) is often transported over long distances from
wells, boreholes or scarce village taps. Some wealthy villagers have
their own systems, and more would readily pay for improvements if given
the opportunity.  In an effort to overcome its manpower problem, DWA
has begun a training program directed at the basic technical education of
junior staff. The program is adequately organized.
Urban Supplies
2.08        Botswana has three urban water systems, located at Gaborone,
Lobatse and Francistown. A fourth system is proposed for Oelebi-Pikwe,
site of the Shashe project (see paragraph 5.08). The Gaborone and Lobatse
systems are discussed in detail in Annex 1.  A summary of the data on those
two systems is given below, along with a brief description of the
Francistown system.
2.09        Gaborone, with 15,000 to 20,000 inhabitants, has well planned
waterworks befitting a national capital. The main source of supply is
a dam whose large catchment area (1,500 sq mi) allows an annual yield
averaging 5 to 7 IMgd, which greatly exceeds the average demand of 0.9 IMgd.
Limited by the raw water pumping station, the presentC raaxinum supply capacity
of the system is 1.5 IMgd; the seasonal peak consumption that rises to



- 4 -
1.8 IMgd has been met by full use of the available storage. All connections
are metered. Consumption is mainly for domestic purposes. The relatively
low cost of water and the free allowance given civil servants, who comprise
most of the capital's residents, have encouraged excessive consumption for
gardening and similar uses. Demand has increased at the high rate of
about 30% per year compounded (see Annex 2).
2.10        Lobatse, with 10,000 to 13,000 inhabitants, became the national
meat-packing center after establishment of the abattoir in 1954. The town's
demand averages 0.4 IMgd. Roughly 50% of that amount is taken by the
Botswana Meat Commission (BMC), which manages the abattoir and whose
employees (by employment contract) enjoy free water, metered in bulk. While
water is used efficiently in the meat-processing plant and BaC has under
way a program to conserve water (see Annex 3), there is evidence of excessive
consumption by the employees despite restrictions. The three components
of B14C consumption -- processing wqater, cooling water (for the power plant,
general refrigeration and ice-making) and staff use -- are roughly equal.
Non-B4C consumption has remained unchanged in recent years, having been
suppressed by drought restrictions and the transfer of some Government
offices to Gaborone.
2.11        Lobatse is experiencing a serious water shortage, caused
mainly by three drought years that exhausted the town's supply of water
from the Nuane dam. It has a small catchment (85 sq rni) and therefore
the annual inflow is subject to much more uncertainty than the Gaboronebasin.
The yield was originally estimated at 0.5 EIgd, but it appears that the
figure of 0.35 IMgd is more realistic (see Annex 1).  Boreholes have been
urgently recommissioned and since June 1970 the town has been entirely
dependent on that source. These boreholes are capable of an estimated
sustained yield of 0.2 IMgd, amounting to only half of the town's present
demand.  The yield could be increased to 0.4 LIgd for a period of about
18 months. Consequently, if no recharge of the water sources were to
occur, there would be a total failure of supply by early 1972. Although
other ground water sources could be tapped to the north of Lobatse, they
would not change the outlook significantly. An additional factor to be
considered is that for many years waste from the abattoir has contaninated
the boreholes in its Lanediate vicinity and also the small river that
flows through the toim; the river's pollution has affected other boreholes
dowmstream. Corrective action contemplated by E1IC has not yet been under-
taken nor has any attempt been made to reclain the effluent from the plant.
Because of this pollution problem and R,IC's key role in coping with the
water situation in Lobatse, a detailed investigation of BM4C water manage-
ment practices was made during the appraisal. In Annex 3 (page 6) are
set out the recommendations made to B4C to further improve its water
management and waste disposal practices (see also paragraph 3.12).
2.12        Francistown, a trading town of some 10,000 inhabitants and
situated on the railway line to Southern Rhodesia, will be the center of
the prospective mining developments. The town council owns and operates
the water system, an arrangement that will continue for the near future.



-5-
The water sources are boreholes on the banks of the nearby Tati River, and
they are expected to be sufficient for several years.  Relatively dependable
additional sources are available in the area.
Private Systems
2.13        There are a number of privately owned water supplies in
Botswana. The Rbodesian Railways, operating the line crossing the country,
have a series of watering points (for the linets steam locomotives) that
include a small dam along with some boreholes in Lobatse. The Railways do
not envisage conversion to diesel traction for the near future. BMC like-
wise has its oiwn boreholes in Lobatse, located within its property.
Except for the diamond mine being opened 130 miles west of Francistown,
most of the otber privately owned supplies are small and mainly comprised
of dams built for irrigation. The diamond mine is expected to require up
to 5 IMgd, to be drawn from the river flowing out of the Okavango delta.
Water rights legislation is being applied to all of these private systems.
Government Development Program
2.14        The Government has a five year sector program for 1970-75
that includes, in addition to the present Project and the facilities to
serve the Shashe complex, development of the Francistown water supply
(R20,000 yearly), of rural and small towns distributions (R100,000 to 370,000
yearly) and of borehole equipment. It also includes the creation of a
hydrological service which would continue the UIDP sur-vey of water resources
(see paragraph 2.03). Apart from the proposed IDA credit, funds are being
provided mainly by U.K. grants and loans and Government bonds. The Depart-
ment of WIater Affairs recurrent budget for 1970/71 amounts to R400,000
(compared with R250,000 in 1969/70), about half of which is for maintenance
while most of the remainder is for salaries.
Sewerage
2.15        Construction and operation of sewerage works is the responsi-
bility of the Department of Public WVorks. Only a few areas in Botswana have
community sewer systems. In Gaborone, the sewer system (waterborne) was
built when the town was established; it is satisfactorily operated and being
extended as the town expands. After treatment in stabilization ponds, some
of the effluent is used for irrigating the prison garden and the rest is
discharged into the Notwani River at a point some distance from Gaborone.
In Lobatse private and public septic tanks appear to be functioning satis-
factorily; introduction of waterborne sewerage, which might take place when
adequate water supplies are available, should not present any special dis-
posal problems. In Francistown, which likewise has public and private
septic tanks, a towfn planning exercise is under way that includes examining
the possibility of waterborne sewer facilities.  For the Shashe mining deve-
lopment at Selebi-Pikwe, a waterborne system is planned.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
3.01        The proposed project is technically sound, having been
selected from among a number of different schemes, and is the least-cost
solution for supplying the towns of Gaborone and Lobatse with safe and
dependable water supplies to meet their needs until about 1975.
General Description
3.02        A detailed description of the project is given in Annex 4,
and the existing facilities of the two towns are described in Annex 1.  WTater
is to be drawn from the Gaborone dam and treated at the Gaborone waterworks,
then part of the water will be pumped into the Gaborone distribution system
while the remainder is to be pumped along a 32-mile transmission main
into the Lobatse distribution system at NTuane dam (see lMap). The project
facilities in Gaborone that will be used to supply both the Gaborone and
Lobatse systems include a raw water pumping station and a treatment plant.
The facilities to be bui-lt under the project to serve Gaborone consist of
a storage reservoir and main extensions; those for Lobatse are a transmission
line with pumping station and ancillary equipment, main extensions and a
storage reservoir.
3.03        Minor improvements and extensions to the distribution systems
in both Gaborone and Lobatse on which construction has started are included
in the project, but will be financed entirely with Government funds.
3.04        The project also makes provision for technical assistance,
laborers' quarters on the -watenrjorks site, vehicles, and miscellaneous
equiprnent for office, laboratory, metering, pipelaying and testing.
Engineering and Construction Schedule
3.05        The Government has designated Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
(Gibb)1/ as engineering consultants for the project. Gibb will also be
responsible for final design and supervision of construction.  The project
cost includes engineering fran August 1970, and an amount not exceeding
US$100,000 is proposed for retroactive payment.
3.06        Because of the probable exhaustion of Lobatse's ground water
supply by early 1972, the Gaborone dam raw water facilities and the
Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline with associated equipment should be made
operational by that time, if possible. Wlith about 12 months allowed for
construction, the main contracts for these works would have to be awarded
in early 1971 at the latest if the schedule is to be met. Annex 5 gives
the details of the construction schedule.
1/   Gibb has also been appointed as consultants for the engineering of the
Shashe Infrastructure Project and supervision of the preliminary works,
and will be retained for supervision of construction in that project.



Optimum Timing of Pipeline Construction
3.07       The only way to forestall the serious problems that would confront
the country if Lobatse and the abattoir were to have no water in 1972 is
to move ahead immediately with the Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline (see paragraph
4.04).  However, if there were heavy rains with enough runoff to fill the
Lobatse reservoir before the current rainy season ends, this would raise
the possibility of the postponement of construction. More than a two-year
postponement would appear unlikely, however, because of the growth of demand
in Lobatse. An evaluation of the cost savings through postponement, using
conservative figures, is given in Annex 6. In view of the limited savings,
if any, to be realized, it is concluded that postponement of the pipeline
should not be further considered. If heavy rains occur, however, it would
be possible to extend the construction period. This would be desirable if
a reduction in contract costs could be achieved.
Land Acquisition and Wiater Rights
3.o8       There is no problem of land acquisition, either along the pipe-
line route that follows the Gaborone-Lobatse road or in the two towns.
Although the Gaborone dam catchment lies partly in South Africa and the
Notwani River forms part of the Botswana-South Africa border, Botswana has
rights to the use of water flowing into the Gaborone dam. Thus, no problems
are anticipated.
Cost Estimates
3.09       The project cost estimates are summarized below.  The detailed
estimates are in Annex 7.
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
----- Rand x 1,000  --US$ x 1,000-
Description
A.  Works to which IDA. funds
will be applied
Raw Water Facilities        12       78        90    16.5    108.5    125
10 in. Pipeline to Lobatse 92       763      855   137.5  1,068.5  1,206
Gaborone Waterworks         69      426      495    96       598       694
Lobatse 'JIaterworks        21      109       130    29      151       180
Miscellaneous                8       22        30   11        29        40
Sub-Total               202    1,398    1,600   290    1,955    2,245
Contingencies
Technical (15%)          30      220      250    40       310      350
Price Increases (8%)    18       132      150    40       185       225
Engineering (10%)           25      175       200    35      245       280
Total               275    1,925    2,200   ho5    2,695    3,100
B.  Works to be financed exclusively
from Goverrnent Fbnds
Gaborone and Lobatse
distribution & extensions 18       122       1L40    25     175       200
Total Project Cost         293    2,047    2,380   430    2,870    3,300



- 8 -
These estimates are based on consultants' studies, reviewed by DIJA, and
are considered reasonable in comparison with the costs of similar works
recently carried out in southern Africa (Shashe temporary water supply
facilities and recent Botswana and South Africa contracts).
Procurement - Disbursement
3.10      Procurement would be by international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA procedures. There is no local capability for supply-
ing equipment or most materials. It is likely that the civil works
contracts wculd be awarded to foreign firms registered in Botswana.
Annex 8 gives the estimated disbursement schedule, which is based on the
assumption that the schedule for construction discussed in paragraph 3.06
will be achieved. Disbursement for eligible expenses will be against
the actual foreign exchange cost of imported goods, the cost of consult-
ants' services and 90% of civil works costs.
3.11      Any unutilized balance of the IDA credit will be cancelled.
Ecology
3.12      Investigation of the abattoir effluent problem (see paragraph 2.11
and Annex 3) indicates that within one year satisfactory treatment could be
simply and inexpensively effected, thereby eliminating the water pollution
and bad odors. The best use of the treated waste water would be to
recharge the groundwater reserves; as this could lead to an excessive
concentration of dissolved solids, the situation will have to be closely
controlled. Agreement has been reached during negotiations that the
Government will ensure that BMC will build adequate treatment facilities
and that the wells for the study of recharge characteristics will be
closely observed and recharge in the near vicinity discontinued if there
are adverse effects. Thirty months has been agreed for the completion of
the effluent treatment plant, construction and settlement of operational
difficulties. The project itself is expected to have many beneficial
ecological effects. In addition to the river and groundwater pollution
abatement steps agreed upon, the availability of reliable and safe water
not only would ensure satisfaction of minimum human needs, but also would
provide enough water for esthetic purposes and a waterborne sewerage
system in Lobatse.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
4.0l      The purpose of the proposed project is to meet the growing
water needs of both Gaborone and Lobatse and to ensure the uninterrupted
operation of the BMC abattoir if the presen-t drought continues. The
Government places a high priority on the project and was responsible for
commissioning the feasibility studies.



4.02        As Gaborone's treatment and distribut4ion facilities are being
utilized to the fullest, it is likely that in the interim before project
completion the water supplies in that towTn will have to be rationed during
peak demand. Depending on how rapidly demand grows, the project would
provide sufficient capacity to meet requirements up to the period between
1975 and 1980.
4.03        In Lobatse, the waterworks are likewise near full utilization
of capacity. The distribution works must be expanded, taking into account
the effect of the present drought in having suppressed past demand, the
enforced delay in distribution extensions and the possible introduction of
a waterborne sewage system. For a full discussion of past and projected
demand in both Lobatse and Gaborone, see Annex 2.
4.04        Location of the national abattoir at Lobatse makes uninterrupted
and adequate water supplies in that town of vital importance to Botswana's
economy. The abattoir's annual sales are of the order of R10 million
(US$14 million). Nith a large part of the population dependent on agriculture,
particularly cattle-raising, any disruption of the abattoir operation
would have far-reaching effects. If the ground water reserves should
become exhausted by the end of 1971 and no alternative supplies were
available, the abattoir would have to restrict or even stop operations.
Resulting economic losses t? the country would depend on the duration of
the restriction or closure.-/ For instance, a short closure of, say,
one month would probably involve only a financial loss to RIC of R100,000,
equal to i-ts fixed costs.  But a longer closure, say one year, could
entail the loss of the entire year's off-take, depending on whether drought
conditions prevailed throughout the country and thus on the ability of the
livestock that would otherwise be slaughtered to survive in the veld. The
loss of major export markets possibly resulting from such a closure could
prove disastrous. Data is not sufficient to estimate accurately the
incremental costs of a protracted closure of the abattoir, but rough
calculations suggest that they might be at least R5 million (US$7 million)
in one year. These possible losses are to be compared with the estimated
capital cost of the Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline of R1.2 million (US$1.7
million). In the long run, the pipeline would preclude recurrence of an
emergency situation as well as provide the capacity to meet the growing
demand in Lobatse under average rainfall conditions.
4.05        .wo alternative schemes were considered for the extension of
water supplies to Lobatse: construction of a dam at the Tsiklane site
(see Nlap), or of a pipeline from Gaborone dam to Lobatse.  The estimated
present worth costs of these two schemes are about the same. However,
the urgent need to provide relief for Lobatse precludes the first alternative.
1/   There are only limited possibilities of exporting cattle other than
through the BMC abattoir. South Africa forbids the import of cattle
on the hoof from Botswana. Zambia, to which cattle could perhaps be
trekked, could not at present take more than 25% of the total off-take.
Exports to the United Kingdom, the o-ther major consumer, have to be
processed at the abattoir.



- 10 -
Even if the da-m coul-1. be completed in time, there is no assurance that it
could provide the reciLired supplies within a few months. Moreover, as
the Tsiklane site is in the Gaborone dam catchment, there would be relatively
little added to the available supplies from that area. A final factor is
that to supply Lobatse from the dam at Gaborone would lessen the latterts
water supplies by a mere six weeks. A prolonged drought would be serious
for both towns, of course, but the probability of inflow into Gaborone dam
is high because of its large catchnent area. For these reasons, selection
of the pipeline alternative is a sound decision.
4.o6        The internal financial return on the project as a whole
(including the future capital expenditures needed for its continued utili-
zation) is estimated at 12% (see Annex 9).
V. THE BENEFICIARY
Recent History and Financial Perfonnance
5.01        Past performance of the Gaborone and Lobatse water operations
has generally been good, though the tariffs have been too low to achieve
a reasonable return on invested capital. Tne proposed arrangements for
establishing a new water authority to begin operations on January 1, 1971
are satisfactory (see paragraphs 5.06 et seq.).
5.02        The supply of water and electricity to C-aborone and Lobatse
has been the responsibility of the Gaborone Water and Electricity Unit
(Gw EC ). Its status has been that of a Government agency, functioning
within the Ministry of Wlorks and Communications, under the direction of a
Government-appointed Board.  GWEU's Mqanager has been the senior power
station engineer, who has delegated to a Water Superintendent in each town
the responsibility for the Gaborone and Lobatse water operations. Since
GWEU's water undertacing has lacked technical expertise, design of the
water facilities has been done by the Department of Water Affairs. From
a technical point of view, the water operations have been well executed.
5.03        The GWrEU organization has been infornal but efficient.  The
secretarial/accounting division has served both water and electricity
operations.  Meter reading, billing and collections have been done monthlv
(bills sent out w-rithin about 10 days after reading), with paynent generally
prcmpt.  It is estimated that uncollected bills have been less than 1% of
annual revenues. Routine bookkeeping on receivables and payables has been
well done, but there has been no systematic procedure for preparing
financial statements and accounts.  This is being progressively remedied
since the appointment of a capable secretary/accountant at the end of 1969.
A public accounting firm recently prepared financial statements for the
past few years, but the data iwas not adequate for the income statements to
include depreciation and the balance sheets to reflect all of GWEU's assets
and liabilities.  An audit of the GWEU accounts has never been made.
5.04        The fixed assets were financed out of U.K. development grants,
Botswana Government bond issues, and various loans raised by the Government



-11-
from conmercial banks and local savings associations. A number of the loans
were shared between water and power, but there is no record of the alloca-
tions. In most cases it is not possible to identify a particular loan
with specific assets. The commercial bank loans are repayable on short
term; the total Government debt service for water and power in Gaborone and
Lobatse will be at a peak of about R330,000 (US$465,ooo) per year until
1975, declining sharply thereafter.
5-05        The water tariff, at a flat rate of RO.50 per 1,000 Ig (about
US$0.58/,0ooo USg) in both towns, is above the average for other countries,
but is low relative to costs. Besides the tariff, consumers are also charged
an initial connection fee based on the cost of materials and labor. Although
the data are incomplete, the rate of return on the current value of the net
fixed assets was probably no more than 2% in recent years.
Water Utilities Corporation (WUC)
5.o6        Primarily because of the need to set up and operate water and
power systems for the proposed Shashe Infrastructure Project, in May 1970
the Parliament enacted Legislation providing for a Water Utilities Corpo-
ration (WUC) and a Botswana Power Corporation (BPC), to be run as commer-
cially sound public utilities. GWEU needed to be replaced by semi-
autonomous and commercially-oriented organizations, hence it was decided
that each Corporation should have a separate division responsible for the
Gaborone-Lobatse operations. The WUC and BPC Acts were drafted following
guidelines agreed with the Bank during talks on the Shashe project. The
WUC Act was amended in November 1970 to relieve the Corporation from income
taxes and to clarify, inter alia, matters relating to the assets transfer
(see also paragraph 6.02).
5.07        The setting up of WUC is proceeding satisfactorily.  Appointed
in June 1970, the Board consists of three members representing the public
sector and six members representing the private sector. The Chairman is
the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Water Affairs.
Transfer of the water assets from the Government to WUC became effective
January 1, 1971, the date when WIUC took over the water operations from
GWEU (see paragraph 6.02).
5.08        It is anticipated that TNUC will have three divisions:  Gaborone-
Lobatse, Shasbe, and Morupule. The Shashe Division would supply the proposed
township and mine at Selebi-Pikwe, and the Morupule Division the colliery
associated with the Shashe project. The relative size of the three divisions
may be assessed according to the value of their present or proposed fixed
assets: R5 million (US$7 million), including the project in Gaborone-
Lobatse; Rll million (US$15 million) in Shashe; and RO.25 million (US$0.35
million) in Morupule. -
5.09        Construction of the proposed Shashe water facilities will be
under the control of a Management Unit within the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning, which will have overall responsibility for cons-
truction of the Shashe project. It is not expected that the water facilities
would come into operation before mid-1973.  By that time, WIUC's Shashe
Division will have to be staffed. It is anticipated that management,



- 12 -
engineering and administrative departments will be common to all three of
WUC's divisions, although as yet the location of the head office has not
been fixed.
5.10        In the meantime, the Gaborone-Lobatse Division will operate
with its present limited staff, but be supported by a stronger organiza-
tional structure. DIA will be given full responsibility for water operations
in Gaborone and Lobatse under an agency contract with the Corporation; the
Board has appointed DWA's Director as the fcting Chief Executive Officer of
the Corporation until such time as a permanent appointment is made.  He will
be responsible for administration of the proposed project.  To facilitate
DWA's role as techrnical agent for VCUC, the technical employees of GWEU
(water undertaking) are being transferred to DWA, on employment terms at
least as favorable as they now have. When tJUC begins recruitment, they
will be given the opportunity of joining the Corporation.  The system will
be operated by WUC staff by no later than December 31, 1973. A draft of
this agreement has been reviewed and found satisfactory.  Its signat-ure
will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
5.11        The Botswrana Power Corporation will take over the GWEU
secretarial/accounting staff and under a contract with IUUC will handle its
accounting, and continue combined power and water meter-reading, billing
and collections. A draft of this agreement has been reviewed during ne-
gotiations and found acceptable. Its signature will be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit.
5.12        Because of the serious shortage of skilled manpower in Botswana,
senior technical and managerial personnel are generally expatriates who
have short-term contracts.  Mioreover, with the high demand for skilled man-
power in the neighboring countries and the Botswana Government's difficulty-in
paying competitive salaries, it is not easy to hire and retain qualified
personnel.  Therefore, to recruit and retain competent staff, WUC will
probably have to offer more attractive employment conditions than those in
equivalent Government service.  All these factors make it advantageous that
the two Corporations have as much common staffing as possible within their
Slhshe and Gaborone-Lobatse Divisions.  The Govenument being well aware
of these problems, has accordingly devised the technical and accounting
arrangements described above. Before appointraent of the General I4anager,
of IWUC IDA will be given opportunity to comment.
5.13        On-the-job training of junior and middle-level technical and
financial personnel has been reasonably well handled. The Corporation
will benefit from the better trainirng facilities of DWA and the continually
improving situation in the BPC accounting office.
5.14        Even though the technical and accounting agency arrangements
should prove satisfactory, outside assistance will be essential in the
transition from a local, combined water/power undertaking operated as a
Government agency to a semi-autonomous and commercially-oriented Corporation'
with responsibilities in several different areas. The work will include
development of a financial reporting system involving preparation of regular



-13-
financial statements; a budgetary and cost control system for capital
and recurrent expenditures; a mathod of fixed asset and dapreciation
accounting; and a review of the present system of revenue collections.
This technical assistance is available locally from a public accounting
firm and will be provided to BPC (see paragraph 5.11) at WAC expense.
The general financial statements will be prepared under the supervision of
the advisory personnel. An amount of FR10,000 is included in the proposed
credit for this purpose.
5.15        The technical assistance outlined above will suffice for the
Gaborone-Lobatse Division of WUC. If a Bank loan is approved for the
Shashe project, however, the integration of Shashe operations into the
existing activities of WUC and BPC would require technical assistance of
much greater scope.
Auditing
5.16        It has been agreed that an annual audit of the accounts of the
W§ter Utilities Corporation will be made by a firm acceptable to IDA. The
first audit will cover the Corporation's initial financial period ending
March 31, 1971.
VI. FUTURE FINANCES
6.01        The revision of the level and structure of the water tariffs
along the lines described below should provide sufficient funds to cover
operating expenses and debt service requirements. By fiscal year 1974-75
funds generated from operations are expected to cover most, if not all,
capital needs. A satisfactory rate of return on net fixed assets should
be achieved within about five years of completion of the project.
Capital Structure of WUC
6.02        Government and WUC have agreed that the existing fixed assets
of the water system will be valued at R2.55 million (US$3.57 miUion) when
the assets are turned over to WUC on January 1, 1971. This amount is based
on a valuation by DWA at replacement cost less depreciation, subsequently
reduced by 20% to reflect assets transferred which are inoperative, such as
NItwani dam. The Government has a strong preference for WUC to have a
100% debt capital structure. Accordingly both the payments for the assets
originally transferred and the subsequent relending of the DA credit are
to be in the form of 30 year 7% debt to the Government. As WUC's internal
cash generation in its early years of operation may not be sufficient for
it to assume full debt service obligations, Government has agreed that
interest only will be paid on its debt untiL FY 1976-77.  Fixed annual
payments, including amortization will begin in FY 1976-77 and continue over
the remaining 25 years of the debt period. In the case of the portion of



- 14 -
WTJC's debt relaf-i.g Wo the IMA credit, the grace period will extend to
I-ay 1, 1976, about four year-s after the project comes into operation.
Government agrees tlhat if UXC should at any time run into financial diffi-
culties, itu would reschedule that part of its debt relating to the assets
transferred.
Debt and Capital F.xpenditure Timitation
6.03        Because of the possible adverse impact on WUG's financial
position of further large debts, WUC has agreed that it will not in any
financial year incur total debt in excess of US$75,000 equivalent; or
undertake any expansion program or acquire capital assets in excess of
US$100,000 equivalent, without IDA's prior agreement.
Project Financing
6.o4        The estimated project cost of R2.34 million (US$3.3 million) is
to be disbursed over the years 1971 through 1973. The proposed IDA credit
of R2.1 million (US$3 million) is for approximately 90% of proJect costs
and covers mainly the foreign exchange component estinated at 87.5% of
total project costs. The remaining funds of RO.2 million (US$0.3 million),
required to complete the project, iAll be provided by Government.
6.05        The proportion of proposed IDA financing of the total cost
is high because of the need to import all supplies, equipment and tech-
nical services for the project and also because of the difficulty faced
by the Government in allocating substantial furnds towards the project with-
out reducing other development expenditures. The Government is dependent
upon UK grants and soft loans to balance its recurrent budget and provide
development capital.
6.o6        Summnarized below is the financing plan for the fiscal years
of project implementation, 1971-1974.
Rands       US$          %
---- thousands ----
Apulication of Funds
Capital Expenditures
Project                          2,340       3,300         99
Other                               10           13           .5
Increase in net current assets          13           17           .5
___   3,330              100
Solarces of Funds
From Operations                        877       1,227          37
Less: Debt service requirements        864       1,210          36.5
llet cash generation                    13           17-
Government Loans
ID?i relending                   2,145       3,000         91
Other                              205         313          8.5
33330                    100



- 15 -
Tariffs
6.07        The present tariff of RO.50/1,000 Ig:.(Us$0.58/1,000 USg) is
insufficient to cover present operating costs and debt sernice requirements
and a fortiori will be inadequate for the future. Therefore, WIJC and
Government have indicated their intention to raise the average tariff for
the Gaborone-Lobatse division to R0.80/1,000 Ig  (US$0.93/1 ,ooo USg) from
April 1, 1971. For V3UCts cash generation to be sufficient to meet ope-
rating expenses and debt service requirements and provide towards future
expansion, it has been agreed that its rate of return on net fixed assets
should not be less than L1J3 for the financial years 1972 through 1975, nct
less than 7% for its financial years 1976 and 1977 and thereafter not less
than 8%. The cost of water in Lobatse is much higher than Gaborone and
there is to be a separate tariff for each town.
6.08       There is also a need to replace the present flat rate tariff
structure with one providing for increasing charges for higher levels of
water consumption. This is necessary because the required average tariff
of RO.80/1000 g9 - (US$0.93/1000 Ug) is more than the lower income groups
can afford, in addition to which it is necessary to discourage high con-
sumption (say above 12,000Ig-1 monthly).  WUC intends to introduce the
separate revised -tariff structures for Gaborone and Lobatse at the time
the average tariff is raised. The free water allowance at present granted
to civil. servants (see paragraph 2.04) is to be abolished at the same time
subject to certain transitional provisions regarding retired personnel and
those employees with fixed term contracts whose provisions include free
water allow!ances.  Because of the difficulty of forecasting the response
of consumers to a higher tariff and the effects of eliminating free water
allowance,1JUC proposes to review its tariff structure at least every six
months during its early years of operation.
6.og        As the separate tariff in Lobatse would be raised to prohibi-
tive levels if consumption charges had to recover all costs (about R1.40/
1,000  Ig   US$1.62/1,000 USg), BViC as the major beneficiary of the pro-
posed pipeline (see paragraph 4.04) has agreed to bear the pipeline capital
costs and has entered into an agreement with WJUC under which the cost of the
Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline wxill be recovered through fixed annual payments,
over a 30 year period together with interest at 7% per annum. In addition,
BNC will pay for water for industrial use on the basis of the industrial
tariff which basically will be the average tariff for Lobatse plus 10%;
for its staff BIC will pay the ordinary domestic tariffs.  The fixed annual
payment will reduce the Lobatse rate by about 35% from the rate that would
otherwise be needed although it is estimated that average chargc3 in
Lobatse will still be in the region of 20% to 25% higher than in Gaborone.
Financial Projections
6.10        The income statement, cash flow and balance sheet projections
shown in Annexes 10, 11 and 12 respectively, covering the period 1971 to
1978, reflect the Corporation's activities in Gaborone and Lobatse, but do
not take into account any expansion of its activities in connection with



- 16 -
the proposed Shashe project.  The period ending iNarch 31, 1972, is the first
period covering a complete financial year. Because of the particular
uncertainties in forecasting at this time water sales under the new
tariff structure revenues are based on what are considered to be very
conservative demand estimates. The assumptions used in the projections
are given in Annex 13.
6.11        The Income Projections show increasing losses between FY
1971-72 and FY 1973-74 when interest and depreciation charges relating
to the project first occur. From FY 1974-75 losses begin to decline and
a profit is first forecast in 1977-78.  It is expected that profits will
increase annually thereafter as a consequence of increased water sales
produced without major capital additions and at low marginal cost. The
rate of return on net fixed assets is expected to increase from 4.4% in
FY 1973-74 to 9.2/3 in FY 1977-78 with a rate of almost 8% being forecast
in FY 1976-77. The ratio of operating expenses, including depreciation,
to total revenue show a gradual improvement from 69% in FY 1971-72 to
54% in FY 1977-78.
6.12        The cash flow fron operations is forecast as increasing from
R198,000 in  FY 1971-72 to R562,0O0 in FY 1977-78 and is sufficient to
cover debt service requirements in each fiscal year and also to provide
substantial funds for planned capital expenditures other than the project
from FY 1973-74 to FY 1977-78.
VII.  AGRMENTS REACHED DURING 1EGOTIATIONS
7.01        During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  the construction of adequate facilities for treating the
abattoir effluent and control of the use of the effluent
(paragraph 3.12);
(b)  the procedure for appointment of the General Manager of WUC
(paragraph 5.12);
(c)  the provision of technical assistance in setting up the
accounting system (paragraph 5.14);
(d)  the audit of the annual accounts of WUC (paragraph 5.16);
(e)  the value of the fixed assets to be transferred from the
Government to WWC, along with the terms of repayment for
these assets and also for the on-lending of the IDA credit
(paragraph 6.02);
(f)  the conditions under which future debt can be incurred and
capital assets acquired (paragraph 6.03);



- 17 -
(g)  the tariffs to be applied no later than April 1, 1971, to
produce a return on net fixed assets of not less than 4.5%
for t.he financial years 1972 through 1975, not less than 7% in
1976 and 1977, and not less than 8% thereafter (paragraph 6.07):
(h)  the terms of thie contract between WUC and BiC covering the
fixed annual charge relating to tlhe Gaborone-Lobatse
pipeline (paragraph 6.09).
7.02        The proposed credit would not become effective until the
contracts between (a) WRJC and DWA covering staffing arrangements, and
(b) T;UC and BPC for accounting services have been signed.
January 6, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4 pages
BOTSWANA
GAB_RONE-IDBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF 14AJOR ITEMS IN EXISTING FACILITIES
A. GABORONE WATER SUPPLY
Development of Gaborone
1.        Before independence in 1966, the Bechuanaland Protectorate was
administered from Niafeking, S.A. In 1965, the admTnistration moved to a
site near Gaborone village, formerly a district headquarters; some
Government departments, however, moved temporarily to Lobatse. The new
capital was created from scratch; the area chosen - about 3 miles x 1-1/2
miles - is located between a railway station on the line crossing Botswana
and the smaIl Gaborone village; water availability was one of the decisive
factors in the siting of the town. Development of the town has been very
rapid and is proceeding according to the initial master plan; the last
free areas within the initial boundary are now being prepared for the next
housing extension. There is no lack of space and housing is conveniently
spread out (1 to 7 houses to the acre); buildings are low; trees have been
conserved as much as possible. Some traditional housing construction has
taken place illegally, but the intention is to clear them away as soon
as possible. The present population is estimated at 15,000 to 20,000.
Early Supply Schemes
2.        Gaborone village was originally supplied from boreholes near the
Notwani River. later, a dam of 1,600 acre-feet capacity was constructed
on the Notwani river, 9 miles to the south and upstream of Gaborone.
Notwani dam is now used almost exclusively for railway and agricultural
purposes. A treatment plant of about 0.1 IMgd capacity and distribution
facilities were also built, but these are no longer used.
Present Sources
3.        Gaborone dam was built on the Notwani River in 1963-64 about 2
miles from Gaborone. It is an earth structure about 45 feet high and 7,200
feet long with a spillway of 900 feet. Capacity of the reservoir is 33,000
acre feet. Wplater is drawn from a valve tower with intakes at three dii7ferent
levels; a 15-inch pipe installed in a large culvert crossing the dam embank-
ment carries the water to the raw water pumping station, located on the right
bank of the spillway. The 15-inch asbestos-cement rising main to the treat-
ment plant - situated on the left bank of the river - crosses the spillway,
embedded in its concrete structure. This main becomes a 9-inch line between
spiLlway and treatment plant.



AIT11EX 1
Page 2 of 4 pages
Treatment Plant
4.        The present treatment plant comprises six groups of "Candy" pre-
fabricated steel settling tanks and rapid gravity sand filters. Treatment
is canventional:  addition of aluminum sulphate plus a flocculating agent
and chlorination. Filtration rate is low (75 g/sq.ft.hr. or 3.65 m/hr.);
back washing is effected by air and water.  Used wash wzater irrigates a
demonstration farming unit. Capacity of the plant is limited at present
by the raw water pumps at 1.5 IMgd. During periods of several days, demands
up to 1.8 lPIgd have been met without restriction, by almost depleting the
storage reservoirs.
PLmping Stations, M4ains, and Storage
5.        Treated water is pumped out of an underground sump to the three
storage reservoirs, about 2 miles uphill, near the railway station and
power plant. These reservoirs were built at three different levels and
their total capacity is about 2 IXg or slightly better than one dayts
present peak supply. A 250,000 Ig, 80 feet high, water tower gives adequate
pressure in the builtup area of the town. The water tower is not "floated"
on the distribution system: there are separate mains to and from the tank;
their size (9 inch) is no longer adequate for this operating methlod.
Separate pumping stations convey water from treatment plant to storage
reservoirs and fron the latter to the water tower.
Distribution Piping
6.        Distribution piping is of asbestos cement in sizes mainly 3 inch
and 4 inch, with some 2 inch. lMains are 8 inch diameter. Design is con-
ventional. All connections are metered. High density zones are supplied
by standpipes (about 1 for 20 houses). This water supply system is being
extended to new developing areas in the planned township. The extension
is presently being constructed and is included in that part of the
proposed project being financed by the Government.
Availability of lWater
7.        Gaborone dam has a large catchment area:  1,500 sq. miles; it
is therefore less affected by the irregular distribution of rainfall than
smaller dams like that at Nuane which has a catchment of 85 sq. miles.
The possible yield is far from being fully used. The present average
yearly yield is about 5.0 IMgd; this estimate is based on the reliability
criterion of a failure otcurring not more frequently than five times every
100 years. At present, the yearly draft corresponds to little more than
one foot of water in the reservoir, compared with evaporation losses of
over 5 feet per year.  The dam can be raised 6 feet at relatively little
cost and the yield would then rise to 6.8 IMgd. If more dams were built



ANNE 1
Page 3 of 4 pages
in the Gaborone dam catchment area, the total yield within the area would
be about 7.6 fl4gd, the small increment in yield being due to the greater
evaporation losses from additional reservoirs. The figures given above,
which correspond to reservoir capacities after a siltation period of 20
years, must be interpreted with caution (see para 2.03).
W,,Yater Quality
8.        Treatment of the water from Gaborone dam needs no particular care.
During long periods of very hot weather, however, algae growth has given
some bad taste. This problem has not been solved up to now. Normally, the
water has a neutral reaction (p.H. = 8), a low mineral content (170 ppm),
and does not cause corrosion or scale formation. Laboratory equipment is
elementary, and the staff lack the necessary background to use it. There
is no bacteriological control of the distributed water. The veterinary
laboratory, however, is available to analyze the water when requested.
B.   LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY
Development
9.        Development of Lobatse has taken place alongside the railway line,
40 miles south of Gaborone. In 1954, an abattoir was set up which has
expanded rapidly and is now the main industry in Lobatse and in the country.
At the time of independence, some governmental departments moved to Lobatse
and later transferred to Gaborone when the necessary buildings became
available. The Geological Survey and the High Court are nevertheless
permanently settled in the town. Lobatse has not been planned as has
Gaborone;  it is built between ranges of hills - an uncormon feature in
Botswana - along the main street three miles long; the suburbs occupy the
available flat areas. Lack of water has been curbing the development of
the town. The present population is estimated at 10,000 to 13,000.
Early and Present Sources
10.       Until 1964, before completion of the Nuane dam on a tributary of
the Notwani 8 miles north of Lobatse near the road to Gaborone, the town
water supply and the abattoir relied on groundwater; the Rhodesian Railways
drew water from a small dam and some boreholes. Borehole equipment mainten-
ance was discontinued as soon as water was available from the dam, although
the design of the latter required their continued use as a peak supply
source. The dam filled up in 1966-67, but since then, with increasing
consumption and very low inflow, the reservoir has been depleted and
pumping was discontinued in about June 1970. A first step to relieve the
water shortage was the re-equipment in 1969 of the boreholes with electric
pumps and of their reconnection to the water system. The boreholes for
the town water system, abattoir, and railroad are drilled either in a
dolomitic layer (which extends from deep in South Africa to a small distance
west of Lobatse) or in quartzite. The aquifers are generally poor, except
in weathered areas or in faults or fractured zones. Nuane dam is an earth
embankment, maximum height of 60 feet, crest length of 850 feet, with a



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
concrete side channel spillway. Its capacity is 2,040 acre feet. About 5%
of the capacity has been lost after 6 years of siltation. The catchment
area is small, being only 85 sq. miles. Water from Nuane dam is treated
in a concrete settling tank, followed by the same type of filters as in
Gaborone (three units) with a capacity of 0.75 IFgd. Two pumping stations
in series convey water to Lobatse; they are being extended to match the
latter capacity and the pipeline from Nuane-Lobatse is being doubled.
Distribution Facilities
11.       The total storage capacity is about 1.0 IMgd (about equal to maxi-
mum daily demand), located on a hill at the northern end of the town. The
distribution main is 9 inch, and the reticulation piping 3 inch-6 inch. The
suburbs are not well supplied, since there are significant head losses in the
mains up to the BuGIC connection near the southern end of the town.
WA.ater Availability in Lobatse
12.       The average yield of Nuane dam has been estimated at 0.5 :U4gd, on
the basis of 1 in 20 failure frequency; experience shows, however, that it
cannot be relied upon to sustain a draft of more than 0.35 Ilgd to 0,4 DTlgd
(including unaccounted for water and -treatment losses). Groundwater long-
term yield is estimated at about 0.2 I14gd, but it could supply an average
of 0.4 D-Mgd over a period of about 18 months to 2 years, after which it
wiould have to be rested.  The recovery (restoration of the water table), is
extremely slow: several years, seven in one case, or even more. Artificial
recharge, although expensive, is envisaged.
Remarks on Water Quality
13.       The notes set forth in paragraph 8  may be repeated here, as far
as the dam supply is concerned.  No particular information is available on
the groundwater quality, although it has always been considered as excellent,
with the exception of the wells polluted by the abattoir. The boreholes
affected by the abattoir's operations are located either in its immediate
vicinity or in the area recharged by the river into which the abattoir's
effluent flows.  Total dissolved solids, which are normally wqell belowi the
acceptable 500 ppm, rise to more than 2,000 ppm in polluted boreholes.
Bacteriological contamination has been noticed in a few cases round the
abattoir's wells; where necessary water is chlorinated at the pumphouses.
C.   UNACCOUNTED FOR WATER
1h.       Unaccounted for water has been estimated by the consultants as 7%
to 8%.  This very low figure could be realistic in a new system, using newl
meters.  However, the overrun of master meter capacity, the large differences
in the recording of master meters in series, and the use of non-standard
master meters, all cast doubt on the accuracy of the quoted data. The
mission has used the figure of 15%, which seems to be more appropriate.
January 6, 1971



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5 pages
BOTSYPANA
GABORONE-L0a4TSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PAST AND PROJECTED DEMAND
Gaborone
1.          Water consumption has increased rapidly in Gaborone since
its establishment as the national capital in 1965 (see Figure 1). The
average growth rate in the period 1965-69 has been about 30% p.a. As
a result of the abolition of the free water allowance for civil servants
and of the proposed revision of the level and structure of the tariff
(see paragraphs 6.07 to 6.09), it is likely that the rate of increase
will be considerably reduced.  Furthermore, it is likely that the impo-
sition of the above two measures will effect an "instantaneous" reduction
in the absolute quantity of water consumed.  Ihereas the demand for
water is generally regarded as inelastic, it seems reasonable to believe
there will be some reduction in the immediate consumption levels and
long-term growth because of the significant price increases involved.
The average cost of water consumption is being raised by about 60%
and depending on the amount of water cons-umed the margizal cost will
increase by even more. In addition, although no breakdown of figures
is available, if civil servants were to continue watering their gardens
heavily despite the abolition of their free water allowance, their
monthly water bills might rise by as much as R20 (US$28) or even more
(equivalent to an increase of 200%). This would have less effect if
price were low in relation to income. However, a total water bill of
around R25 (US$35) must be considered high by any standards.
2.          Unfortunately, there is no way of making a reliable estimate
of the growth of demand, taking into account the effect of these price
changes and other factors. For the purpose of the financial projections,
it is assumed that in Gaborone:
(a)  demand will grow at 200 p.a. from April 1, 1970 to
December 31, 1970;
(b) the effect of the free water abolition and of the
tariff revision will be to reduce average daily
demand early 1971 by 20% compared with immediately
previous consumption;



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5 pages
(c)  thereafter, the rate of increase of water demand
throughout the period of the financial projections
(up to 1978) will be at 12% p.a. This rate is
intended to allow for a population growth of 8% p.a.
(3% natural increase, 5% immigration) and also some
income-elasticity in demand;
(d) sales to Rhodesian Railways at Notwani will continue
at the rate of 22 IMg per year.
The resulting denand forecast is plotted as curve (ii) in Figure 1;
the same figure also shows the effect of different assumptions on the
growth of demand labelled as curves (i) and (iii). Curve (i) is based
on the same assumptions as (ii), with the exception that the instan-
taneous reduction in demand is taken as 10% and not 20%. Curve (iii)
assumes a growth rate of 25% p.a. until the end of 1970, no reduction
in consumption as a result of the price increases, and a steady rate of
growth of 12-1/2% p.a. thereafter.
Lobatse
3.          The situation in Lobatse is somewhat different from Gaborone
because of the presence of the Botswana Meat Commission, which cons-
titutes about 50% of total Lobatse demand, and also the much smaller
proportion of Government officials. Past and projected demands are
plotted in Figure 2. For the financial projections it has been
assumed that:
(a)  BMC consumption will increase in accordance with a
steady increase in annual cattle slaughtering up to
200,000 head by about 1979, remaining constant
thereafter, and allowing for no recycling of abattoir
effluent and other conservation measures. It is
possible that a second abattoir will be constructed
elsewhere in Botswana towards the end of the period
under review, which would presumably have the effect
of diverting some livestock from the existing
abattoir and thus of reducing wiater needs at Lobatse,
but this has not been taken into account. Nor have
explicit allowances been made for a reduction in
abattoir cooling water needs which would arise if
HiC were to purchase electricity from the NPC gene-
rating plant at Gaborone, and no reduction has been
assumed arising from diminished consumption by BMC
staff and labor consequent on the introduction of
individual metering and possibly on the abolition of
free water now provided to them by EMC;



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5 pages
(b) Non-EKC consumption will increase at 5' p.a. This
figure is intended to reflect that the present
suppressed demand will be relieved by the project,
but that population growth is probably no more than
3% p.a. and that the prospects of future industrial
growth are very limited.
4.          Curve (i) of Figure 2 illustrates the growth in demand
based on these assumpticns. Curve (ii) shows what the effect would be
if BMC throughput were to rise to 200,000 head by 1975 and if the growth
of non-Bi4C demand were to remain at 8% p.a. throughout.



FIGURE 1.                         ANNEX 2
p. 4
BOTSWAN A
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GABORONE: PAST AND PROJECTED DEMAND
AVERAGE         3.0
DEMAND
(IMgd)                                               m
2.5                                      f
2.01-
1965      1970       1975      1980
YEAR
NOTES:
( I ) ASSUMED THAT ( A) CONSUMPTION WILL GROW AT 20% p.a. FROM APRIL THROUGH DE-
.......       .. CEMBER 1970i
( B) CONSUMPTION WILL BE REDUCED BY 10% IN JANUARY 1971 (DUE
TO PRICE INCREASES AND ABOLITION OF FREE WATER ALLOWANCE);
( C) CONSUMPTION WILL INCREASE AT 10%/ p.a. FROM 1971 ONWARDS.
(11 )SAME ASSUMPTIONS AS IN ( I ) EXCEPT THAT REDUCTION IN JANUARY 1971 TAKEN  AS
_._              ~~~~20% AND INCREASE AT 12% p.a.
"!II ASSUMED THAT ( A) CONSUMPTION WILL INCREASE AT 25% p.a. FROM APRIL THROUGH
--               ~~~~~DECEMBER 1970;
( B) THERE WILL BE NO REDUCTION IN CONSUMPTION IN JANUARY 1971;
(C)CONSUMPTION WILL GROW AT 12'% p.a. FROM 1971 ONWARDS.
I BRD-5244(R)



FIGURE 2.                        ANNEX 2
p. 5
BOTSWAN A
GABORONE- LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOBATSE: PAST AND PROJECTED DEMAND
AVERAGE         1.0
DEMAND
(IMgd)
TOTAL
.75                                 (          DEMAND
0.5
BMC
DEMAND
.25_ _               _(I
0             I
1965      1970     1975      1980
YEAR
NOTES:
I )  BMC WATER CONSUMPTION ASSUMED TO GROW IN ACCORDANCE
WITH STEADY INCREASE IN ANNUAL CATTLE SLAUGHTERING, UP
TO 200,000 HEAD BY ABOUT 1979; NON-BMC CONSUMPTION
ASSUMED TO INCREASE AT 5% p.a.
11)   BMC WATER CONSUMPTION ASSUMED TO GROW IN ACCORDANCE
WITH STEADY INCREASE IN ANNUAL CATTLE SLAUGHTERING UP
TO 200,000 HEAD BY ABOUT 1975; NON-BMC CONSUMPTION
ASSUMED TO INCREASE AT 8% p.a. THROUGHOUT.
IBRD-5241 (R)



ANNEX 3
Paoge       f 6 pages
BOTSWANA
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WqATER CONSERVATION AND IWASTE W4ATER TREATMENT AND RE-USE AT BNC ABATTOIR
Introduction
1.        The purpose of this annex is to discuss in some detail the feasi-
bility of water conservation and possible re-use of treated waste water at
the BMC abattoir at Lobatse.l/
lWater Demand, Use, and Conservation
2.        BI1C officials are keenly awxare of the water shortage and have
already established many water conservation practices. Toilets are adjusted
to flush with a minimum of water. Hoses have squeeze-grip nozzles so that
when dropped or not in use they automatically shut off. The floors are
first swept, brushed or squeegeed before being finally rinsed down by a lhose.
Equipment is cleaned by bucket and sponge and only finally rinsed by hose.
Return condensate water is re-used to spray down the cattle before they
enter the slaughtering room.  Two complete inspections wiere made of the
slaughtering and meat processing operations and waste water treatment
facilities now installed. One inspection was made while the slaughtering
and processing were going on, the other was made during a clean-up period.
In contrast to the situation in most abattoirs, rubber boots were not
required to keep one's shoes dry. All waste flows in channels, sumps and
separation facilities are concentrated and there is no clear water runnira
to waste. In summary, the plant has established excellent water conserva-
tion practices.
3.        An analysis of the water figures for 1970 shows that at present
an average day's consumption is 325,000 gallons or 661 gallons per head of
stock in the plant.2/  A publication of the South African Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research, "A Guide to the Industrial Water and
Effluent Management in Abattoirs and the Meat-Packing Industry" - 1969,
gives a range of water used per head fron 370 to 870 gallons.  A comparison
of the uses of water in these plants and at Lobatse shows that the latter
is using more than half its water for purposes not usually required by an
abattoir. The Lobatse abattoir uses water for ice manufacture, s-team power
1/ The annex is based upon the Full Report of July 1, 1970, by
Mr. C. D. Spangler, wiho joined the appraisal mission specifically
to study the BMC water situation.
2/ Cattle throughput was unusually high in the first 5 months of 1970.
Over the whole year, average daily consumption would be about
200,000 Ig or about 405 gallons per head of stock.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6 pages
generation, and staff and labor quarters.  When these quantities are sub-
tracted, the actual water use per animal in the plant is only 300 gallons
which again indicates that efficient water utilization is practised in
this plant.
4.       All of the water consumption figures are open to question.  Prior
to mid-1969 when departmental metering was started the internal figures
were all estimates. It was believed `that the total figures were reasonably
accurate since these were from meters belonging to the Gaborone W1ater and
Electricity Unit.  However, BMC recently installed their olm meter on the
staff quarters line along with that of the Gaborone ITater and Electricity
Unit (CTBEU) and discovered that the Latter was reading about 75% high
during the month of May.  They now intend to install test meters on all
lines supplying water to the works area and BGIC village.  It is possible
that the overall water usage is nearer to 275,000 gallons per day than the
325,000 gallons now estimated.LV  The BMC meters measuring departmental
flows should be checked because the quantity of water attributed to evapor-
ation losses in cooling water, for making ice, and in electric power
generation with the steam turbines seems unusually high. The increase in
overall water consumed per head between five years ago and the present is
due to the installation of a second ice plant, the use of steam turbines
for generation of power which replaced two small diesel units now on
standby, plus other improvements and additions to the plant which all used
some water. The present power consumption of BMC is three times that of
five years ago when the small diesels were adequate.
5.        The water used in the BMC staff quarters has recently averaged
about 18,000 gallons per month for families of four people. By comparison,
senior Government staff in Lobatse average about 14,000 gallons per month
per household. Even in a hot, dry climate this seems excessive for personal
use. However, each family has a gardener. Assuming a figure as high as
75 gallons per person per day this would leave about 300 gallons that might
be used by the gardener. If he carried 2 two-gallon buckets a trip, this
would nean 75 trips from faucet to flower or vegetable beds. This number
of trips could be made during a day. Water is transported in buckets
because the management has insisted that no hoses be used. Water also
cannot be used for lawns. The laborers use an average of 40 gallons per
capita per day with one-third of them living in houses with uater systems
and two-thirds carrying water in buckets from nearby hydrants. Again, this
seems excessive but most of the houses have small plots of vegetables which
are well watered. It is estimated that perhaps one-third of the water to
the laborers' quarters is used for garden watering. If we assume that the
garden watering in both staff and laborers' quarters could be reduced by
one-half, the saving would be about 20,000 gallons a day or about 6% of the
daily use. It has been recommended to BMC that at least staff quarters
should be individually metered.  BMC apparently agrees writh whis recommenda-
tion, which might eventually lead to some method for employee payments for
water use.
1/ See footniote 2 on previous page.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6 pages
6.        The generation of power by steam turbines is using about 50,000
gallons of wiater a day. BINC has considered purchasing power from the
Gaborone liater and Ilectricity Unit, but based on past performance do not
feel they could depend on them to maintain the proper cycles and voltage.
Also, the GWEU is barely meeting the electricity demand now and the demand
is growing. As soon as the utility has the capacity and can assure main-
tenance of the proper cycles and voltage, BMC will investigate the costs
of generating their own power compared with buying it from the electric
utility. If BMC continues to generate its own power, use of diesel
generators would save considerable amounts of water but the economics of
this would require study.
Waste Water Treatment
7.        Efforts have been made in the last two years to recover as much
material from the slaughtering process as possible to improve the quality
of the plant effluent. Blood is collected and dried. However, some blood
is lost in the killing area just ahead of the bleeding area, wihich should
also be collected. A relatively small number of sheep and goats are killed
in a separate slaughtering line and up to now blood from this source has
not been collected. This area is to be modified and improved in the next
few months and the new drainage syrstema will provide for blood collection.
The paunch manure is now pumped to a settling basin and the effluent then
goes to the main waste collection sump of the plant. The water used to
spray the cattle before killing goes into this sump as does the waste
waber from all other sources. The waste wiater from the sump is pumped to
three parallel settling basins where settleable solids are removed and
fats are skimmed off. The fat removal is accomplished through three small
overflow weirs along the settling basins that generate air bubbles causing
flotation of the fat. Better removal could be accomplished by installing
air diffusers. This can easily be done because a source of compressed air
exists in an adjoining building. This has been recommended to the plant
management.
8.        The present volume of plant wastes amounts to between 130,000 to
150,000 gallons per day averaging a BOD of 3000 mg/l wiL.h dissolved solids
of 2900 mg/l.  This volume is a little less than one-half the total water
consumption.
9.        The plant effluent now goes into a drainage ditch which dis-
charges into the Peleng River channel. The river is dry except for short
periods after heavy run-off rains. The waste water rapidly becomes septic
and affects the river bed over about a two-mile distance.  This is in a
recharge area for several wells and one of these has shoi-m an increase in
dissolved solids to about 1600 mg/l, which compares with the average of
the Lobatse supply of 182 mg/l.  A good breeze was blowing at the time of
the inspection and no odors could be detected about 300 yards down-wind.
However, at the time of the preappraisal mission in April it had been
hotter with no air movement and the odor was objectionable. There is no
question that waste treatment should be provided and the BMC management
has already retained a consultant from South Africa with experience in



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6 pages
the design of stabilization ponds to treat industrial wastes.  Imperial
Chemical Industries (ICI) has also set up a small experimental treatment
device to see what it can do with the abbatoir waste. This is a spray
tower filled with plastic material upon which aerobic slimes form and the
action is similar to a trickling filter. The effluent then goes through
a small settling basin and an activated carbon filter, and is chlorinated.
10.       An excellent location for stabilization ponds is adjacent to
where the plant effluent joins the Peleng River channel. Thlis is about
10 acres and BMC and the Government are already negotiating for it.  More
land is available across the river if needed. One side of the site is a
relatively steep hillside and the waste water has sufficient head to be
delivered to a point about 40 feet above the ground elevation of possible
stabilization poids. If the usual treatinent of anaerobic pond followed by
aerobic pond is used, the volume and strength of the waste would require
two 1-acre anaerobic ponds and two 3-acre aerobic ponds for a total of 8 acres.
A design has been worked out and quantities of earth to be moved calculated;
based on local costs, an estimate of R25,000 should cover pond construction,
land costs and the few concrete structures required.  Another simple method
of treatment has been noted by two of the BMC engineers as having been
extremely successful in treating industrial waste near Johannesburg.  The
wastes are distributed along a hillside and trickle down the hill in a thin
sheet. A biological slime accumulates and after the wiaste passes through a
stand of grass it is clear and inoffensive. This is in principle the same
treatment that ICI is using in the experimental uni&. There is no reason
why such a treatment should not be effective in treating abattoir effluent.
This would eliminate possible odors from the anaerobic pond. At this stage,
the length of hillside required per million gallons per day is not known,
but it is doubtful that more than three or found hundred feet would be
needed for this installation. The losses due to evaporation, seepage, and
transpiration should be no more than from ponds. There is a good possibi-
lity that such treatment would require less than half the pond area. It
has been recommended that BiIC send one or two of its engineers to the
installation near Johannesburg to get all possible information on design,
loading rate, quality of effluent (chemical and bacteriological), opera-
tional problems and water losses through the system. If the method appears
practical it could then be discussed with their consultant and considered
as an alternative to the conventional anaerobic-aerobic lagoons. This
method would further reduce the cost of the installation. Should a sewer
system be built in Lobatse in the future it could be handled in the same way
on the same site by enlarging the facilities.
Re-Use of Waste Water
11.       It is not technically difficult to treat the abattoir waste water
so that it would be clear and harmless as far as bacterial or viral disease
organisms are concerned. The pond effluent could be passed through a micro-
strainer installation to remove the algae and then through slow sand
filters. The filter effluent should be chlorinated to leave a residual of
1.0 mg/l of free chlorine. The cost of such an installation is estimated to
be less than R25,000. The cost of reclaimed water would depend upon the



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 6 pages
quantity to be re-used. Assuming that 80,000 gallons per day might be
re-used and charging the cost of both waste wiater treatment for nuisance
control plus re-use treatment to make potable water, the estimated cost per
1000 Ig is about RO.20 compared with R1.30 which would be the approximate
cost of water in Lobatse including pipeline costs from Gaborone. These
costs include the annual payment to amortize the cost of the treatment
facilities at 8% interest over a 20-year period, plus the cost of power to
pump the reclaimed water to elevated storage at BXC plus labor costs to
operate the installations.
12.       There are several objections to the use of this reclaimed water
by the Lobatse water system or BMC.  Its re-use would be esthetically dis-
agreeable, the water might contain tastes and odors, but even more serious
is the buildup of dissolved solids. The present Lobatse water supply has
182 mg/l of dissolved solids, while the plant wastes average about 2900 mg/l.
Tighter control of blood wastes and brine seepage might reduce this a small
amount. Separate disposal of the liquid from the paunch manure settling tank
would reduce the dissolved solids but the volume to be hauled away would be
a problem. Passage through the biological activity of the waste treatment
might reduce the amount, particularly if the algae were removed by the micro-
strainer, but it is difficult to estimate what the reduction would be.  IS
the dissolved solids could be reduced to 1200 mg/l and if 80,000 gallons
were to be circulated to mix with 240,000 gallons to make up the present
estimated consumption of 325$000 gallons, then the accumulative buildup
in dissolved solids of the plant water would be just under 500 mg/l.  This
is the limiting figure because the water quality standards set this limit
for Class A water.  BMC cannot consider exceeding this because it wTould
affect their rating and ability to sell in international markets, including
Great Britain which has very rigid standards. The increase of solids would
also be disadvantageous because of increased scale formation in boilers and
heat exchangers. The treated waste water might be used to make ice or
watering gardens, but this would require a separate pipeline and the
possibility of cross connections.
i4.       The best use of the waste wiater would seem to be for groundwater
recharge.  A meeting was held with the Geological Survey people to investi-
gate this possibility. Because of the water shortage many boreholes have
been put down in the Lobatse area and much is known of the geologic
structures, groundwater basins, and recharge areas. The present untreated
wastes go into the pervious bed of the Peleng River and into a groundwater
basin from which several boreholes now pump into the system.  One of these
boreholes has s'hown a steady buildup of dissolved solids until it is now
about 1600 mg/l.  The geologists believe that the recharge to the basin
might be about 60% to 70% of the volume of waste water because of the
pervious nature of the recharge area.  If there is a reduction of dissolved
solids due to the uptake in the algae cells, then micro-straining should be
employed on the pond effluent.  This can be determined by passing some of
the pond effluent through clean sand to remove the algae cells and then
running a dissolved solids test. There will also be some ion exchange and
absorption occurting as the recharge water passes through the earth that
should help reduce the dissolved solids.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6 pages
15.       It is apparent that there is not a large waste of water in the
present operation of the abattoir, so the water demand can be expected to
remain at the present daily level or increase slowly as the number of cattle
processed increases to a maximum of about 200,000 per year. So far in 1970,
the cattle processed have been at an annual rate of about 130,000. The cost
of waste water treatment is estimated to be less than R25,000 and since BMIC
is prepared to provide this, no other investment is required.
16.       Based on the foregoing, the following recommendations were
informally made to BM4C at a joint meeting with their management and
Government officials on June 22, 1970, at Lobatse:
(a) BlNIC should check its water meters and get accurate readings
of water consumption by each department, particularly
checking the water used in ice production and that used
in power generation and cooling;
(b)  BMC should continue its program to conserve waater.  Individ-
ual metering of quarters should be started, leading to the
possibility that the staff and labor might pay for water;
(c)  BNC should reduce as far as possible the entry of wastes to
the plant effluent that will contribute to dissolved solids,
particularly blood, brine, and paunch manure liquor;
(d) BMC should proceed as soon as possible to install waste
water treatment for the plant effluent;
(e)  After the waste treatment facilities are installed and have
operated a few months, the algae should be removed by sand
filtration in the laboratory and tests run to determine the
dissolved solids of the treated effluent with and without
algae. If the removal of algae will appreciably reduce the
dissolved solids, the installation of a small micro-straining
unit should be considered; and
(f)  The best use of the treated waste water is for groundwater
recharge in the dry channel of the Peleng River.
At this meeting no objections were expressed by BMC, and it may be hoped
that their water management will continue to show significant improvement.
'January 6, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 4 pages
BOTSWANA
X30R0IE-LOBATSE WifATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
1. Previous Proposal
'1l       The project as originally proposed by the consultants, Herz &
-clellan (South Africa) and Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners, was for three
separate groups of works:
(i)  a pipeline between Gaborone dam and Nuane waterworks,
writh treatment and pumping to Lobatse using existing
facilities at Nuane;
(ii) extension of treatment, pumping, storage and piping
facilities for Gaborone; and
(iii) extension of treatment, storage and distribution for
Lobatse.
2.  INodification of Consultants' Design
2.1       As a result of discussions between the two IDA missions and DWA,
the project was redesigned in order to reduce the capital costs and to
facilitate greater convenience and economy of system operation. This
would involve some modifications in the method of operation of the
Gaborone and Lobatse systems and also as much joint operation as possible
(see para 4.1 and 4.2).
3.  Present Project
3.1       Schedule 1 - Raw Water Facilities
3.1.1 24 inch, 1/2 mile raw water line for ultimate draw-off of
10 Digd from outlet tower to raw water pump station, and
necessary modification of intake works.
3.1.2   Raw water pump station to be sited on left bank of Notwani
river. Capaci-ty: 2 sets of 2 vIlgd and 2 sets of 1.5 Mlgd.
Room for one further pump set. Control from main treatment
station.
3.1.3   20/24 inch, 1/2 mile raw water main of 6.5 INgd capacity
from raw water pumping station to old and to new treatment
plant.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 4 pages
3.2       Schedule 2 - Pipeline to Lobatse
3.2.1   Pumping stations for Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline including
pumping (2 sets) and electrical gear, surge protection,
and connection to H.T. line. One of the pump sets is to
be installed initially at a temporary site for operation
during erection of Gaborone new treatment plant and of
permanent pump housing.
3.2.2   Microstrainer for the Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline to be
operated from outset, temporary connection if necessary.
3.2.3   10/12 inch, 32 mile pipeline to Nuane waterworks designed
to carry ultimately 1.5 IMgd and at the early stage 1.0
124gd, to be connected either to the raw iwrater inlet of
Nuane treatment works or to the clean water tank.
3.2.4   All ancillary works related to the pipeline.
3.3       Schedule 3 - Gaborone 14aterworks
3.3.1   Additional treatment plant of 2 IMgd normal rated
capacity but with pipework and fittings sized to permit
at least 50, overload.
3.3.2   Clear water storage tank of 3 D4gd capacity near treatment
plant.
3.3.3   Pump station comprising pump sets and all related equip-
ment for:
(i) Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline (first pump station -
see 3.2.1);
(ii)  Gaborone distribu`ion system and water tower (two
2 f4gd sets + standby);
(iii)  services for the treatment plant (pump and blower,
electrical gear) and providing:
(iv) space for expansion;
(v) workshop facilities;
(vi)  laboratory and office accomnodation;
(vii)  instrument consoles, flow recorders, and recorders,
etc.; and
(viii)  the necessary electrical lines (length about
2 miles).



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4 pages
3.3.4   M4ain from waterworks to water tower of 3 IMgd rated
capacity. This new main will be interconnected with
the distribution system, and serve as a combined delivery/
supply main with the water tower "floating" as a standpipe.
3.3.5   Change in pipework and pump controls at the water tower to
connect it as a standpipe, with existing pumps to be
supplied from ground-level reservoirs for peak demands9
automatic control of pumps at the foot of the tower
linked as necessary with waterworks pumps.
3.3.6   Limited distribution extensions.
3.4       Schedule 4 - Lobatse Waterworks
3.4.1   Prestressed reinforced concrete reservoir of 1.25 Dig
capacity.
3.4.2   10 inch, 1.5 mile new main between existing reservoirs
and BI-IC connection.
3.4.3   Control system for the operation of the several pumping
sets scattered in Lobatse.
3.4.4   Limited distribution extensions.
3.5       Schedule 5 - Miscellaneous
3.5.1   Technical assistance in accounting procedures.
3.5.2   Laboratory and office equipment.
3.5.3   Workshop equipment (fixed tools, welding apparatus, etc.).
3.5.4   Main-laying equipment (trench pump, pipe cutting, turning
and tapping tools, etc.).
3.5.5   Vehicles.
3.5.6   Portable disinfection equipment, flow and pressure
recording instruments, pressure testing equipment, etc.
4.   Basis of Project Design
4.1       The existing raw water line and pump station at Gaborone dam
would be replaced by larger units and relocated to avoid possible flood
damage. Provision would be made for primary treatment to remove algae to
suppress occasional bad taste and odor.  The new treatment plant and
storage reservoir at Gaborone waterworks would be used for Gaborone supply
as well as for the pipeline to Lobatse, thereby avoiding extension of Nuane
treatmen6 Lacilities.  A new main would be installed and the existing water



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4 pages
tower would "float" in the Gaborone distribution system;  modifications
of the piping within the water tower and the construction of a second
water tower, as proposed initially, would thus no longer be necessary.
The first pumping station of the Gaborone-Lobatse pipeline would be
located within the main pumping station at Gaborone, which would also
house workshops, laboratories and some offices. The design of the
Lobatse pipeline will be based on an initial capacity of 0.75 DTgd to
1.0 Dig,d and an ultimate capacity of 1.5 DJlgd, compared with the original
design figures of 1.1  ISgd and 2.0 DIgd respectively.  Except possibly
for the initial period of its operation, the pipeline would not have to
meet peak demand in Lobatse, since water would be available from boreholes
and, in normal times, from Nuane dam for "peak shaving".
4.2       The new pumping station and treatment plant would provide
adequate capacity until about 1975 to 1980, depending on the rate of
growth of demand. The piping arrangements in the treatment plant wiould
facilitate future capacity additions.l/ Storage is designed to keep about
one day's supply. The transmission main to Lobatse would have sufficient
capacity to meet average demand for 20 years or even longer.
1/  Subject to experiments which would be carried out after expansion
of the raw water facilities, the capacity of the treatment plant
might be increased by using a faster rate of throughput in the exist-
ing sedimentation and filtering tanks. At the final design stage,
the consultants would consider the use of slow and rapid filter and/
or filter control systems, which might res-ult in further design
improvements and some costs savings.
January 6, 1971



BOTSWAN A
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
1  9 7           1 971                    9 7 2   _          9 7 3
J_AIS_O_N_D_JFA A  JJA   ONDJ FMA _ JJASONDJFMAMJJ
RAW WATER LINE GABORONE DAM
I TO TREATMENT PLANT AND PUMP-      ll * M _       _
ING STATION
GABORONE-LOBATSE PIPELINE:
If PIPELINE AND PUMPING EQUIPMENT  I? II ¶  E  I    _   l                      I
CIVIL WORKS                 1111 *11    _   E   EIEI  _
III GABORONEWATERWORKS                    l   lbll-      *EhhhE_hhhhhhhl
IV LOBATSE WATERWORKS                     111 lE
V MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT
DESIGN AND PREPARATION OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
E*NNEN   TENDERING AND ADJUDICATION
CONSTRUCTION OR SUPPLY
COMMISSIONING
z
z
m
IBRD-5246(R)   LA



ANNEX 6
BOTSiT4A
GABORONE-LOBATSE '-TA2A SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTMtATED COSTS AND SAVINGS THROUGH A POSTPONEUENT OF THE
GEBORONE-LOBATSE PIPELINE
(thousands of Rand)
Cost & Escalation at 55/yr.
Imediate            Postponement of:
Construction     1 Year3/        2 Years3/
T,Works
Pipes                              680            715             750
Pumping & Electrical gear           50             52              55
Civil Engineering Contracts        330            350             365
Sub-total            1,060           1,117          1,170
Engineering
Design                              40             40              40
Bidding/Adjudication                20             23              24
Supervision                         35             55              56
Sub-total               95             118            120
Contract Termination ndemnities,
Storage Costs, etc.l/              -           0 to 36.5       0 -bo 36.5
Remobilization Costs2/                               5              5
Total            1,155       1,240 to 1,276   1,295 to 1,331
Present W,1orth of Total3/       1,155       1,145 to 1,170   1,110 to 1,140
Range of Present Worth Savings    -             10 to -15         45 to 15
1/  Assuming no indemnity for civil works, 0 and 10%,J on pipes ald equipment,
since the decision may be taken any time between October (before any
contract Twiould be aw-.arded) and April;  assuaming also 50% included in the
indemnities represents manufactured goods to be stored and to be used
later.  The 10% figure for an April decision should be considered as low.
2/ 0.5% of estimated costs for admiinistration expenditure mainly but not
including any consultant expenditures.
3/  A discount rate of 8% has been used in calculating present worth.



ANNEX 7
BOTSU.IANA
GABO`0NE-LOBATSE . 2? SUTPPLY PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
--- Rand              x 1000  U-OOOUx 1000 ----
Description
A.  Uorks to uThich IDA fhinds will be applied
i) Raw Water Line 2rom dam to
treatment plant                11        69       80   15        95      110
Raw water pumping station    1          9       10    1.5     13.5      15
Sub-total            12      7_        90   16.5    108.5    i2g
ii) Pipeline to Lobatse
Pumping station               7        53       60   10        75       85
4icro-strainer                1         4        5    1.5       5.5      7
Pipeline                     80       700     780  120       980    1,100
Ancillary works               4         6      10    6          8       14
Sub-total            92      76v       5   137.5 1T 5   1,0
iii) Gaborone Waterworks
2 f4,gd treatment plant      25       165     190   35       230       265
3 Dig  storage reservoir    16        104     120   25       145       170
Pumping station                8       62       70   10       90       100
Mains                        12        93     105   15       130       145
Pipework at water tower        8        2      10   11          3       14
Sub-total            _        27      7 _            5         9
iv) Lobatse Waterworks
1.25 Ihg storage reservoir  11         69       80   15       95       110
Sains                         5        35      40    7         49       56
Control system Lor differ-
ents source of supply        5         5      10    7          7       14
Sub-total            21      109      130   29       15       __
v) Miscellaneous
Provision for technical
assistance, housing, vehicles,
lab. equipment, etc.           8       22       30   11        29     _40
Sub-total (i) to (iv)  202    1,398   1,600  290    1,955    2,245
Contingencies
Technical (15%)                  30      220      250   40       310      350
Price increases (8o)             18      132      150   40       185      225
Engineering (10,')                 25      175      200   35       245      280
Total                   275    1,925   2,200  405    2,695    3,100
B * Iorks to be financed excliusively from Government Funds
Distribution extensions in
Gaborone and Lobatse                18      122      140   25       175      200
Total Amount of the Project        293    2,047   2,340  430    2,870    3,300
January 6, 1971I



AINEX 8
BOTSTAITAN
GABOROIE-LOBArSE ',TAT R SUPPLY PROJECT
ESPEATED SCHEDULE OF DTSB-ULSEkE!TIS OF IDA CREDIT
Time Period                            Disbursement of -IDA Credit
(Thousands of Rand3
1970:  4th Quarter                                      60
1971:  1st Quarter                                     120
2nd    "?                                      220
3rd     "40
4uh     "                                     45
1972:  1st Quarter                                     310
2nd     "                                      200
3rd                                            150
4th                                            105
1973:  1st Quarter                                      80
Total                                        2,145
Nio-be:     Due to the very tight construction schedule, disbursement
could slip by at least six months.
January 6, 1971



ANNEX 9
BOTS'iTANA
GABORONE-LOBATSE 14ATER SUPPLY PROJECT
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RETURNJ
1.        The internal financial rate of return has been calculated at
approximately 12%.
2.        The analysis has been carried out on the basis of a comparison
of the costs of running the entire s-upply system without the project com-
pared to the costs (including capital costs) lith the project.  It is
assumed that, without the project, production would rise to the limit of'
capacity of the existing systems and remain constant thereafter.  In
Lobatse, the capacity limit is taken as 0.55 D'Igd (0.35 ETIgd fromi Nuane dam,
0.20 l4gd from groundwater) and in Gaborone, as 1.1 INgd (equal to treatment
plant peak production capability, divided by the ratio of system peak to
average daily demands).  The volume and hence the costs of' the incremental
production attributable to the project are then estirnated.  Electricity,
chemical, general, and supplies and maintenance costs are calculated in the
same way as indicated in Annex 13. IncrementYal labor costs for the operation
of the project facilities are taken as Rla9000 (equivalent to 3 unskilled men
earning a little less than R1 per day), since with the exception of bhe pipe-
line pumping station it will not be necessary for additional labor to be
employed. Similarly, incremental staff costs are taken as zero.
3.        The costs of the project are taken from Annex 7, and of the sub-
sequent capital investment program from estimates made by DWA.  Since after
the completion of the project it will be necessary to continue installing
nvew facilities in order to bring the project facilities to full capacity,
the capital costs of these items have been entered as costs in the year of
their installation. The timing of the later investment in treatment plant,
etc., but to a lesser degree distribution piping, will depend on the rate
of growth of demand.
4.        Because of the considerable uncertainties in the demand forecasts,
and in order to simplify the analysis, it is assurmed that from 1980 to 2000
the load factor of the project facilities remains the same. This is a con-
servative assumlption, since in 1980 the pipeline load factor is likely to
be only about 305.
5.        Incremental revenues for water sales are based on the rates
indicated in Annex 13.
January 6, 1971



BOTSWANA
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
INTERNAL FTNANCIAL RETURN ON PROPOSED PROJECT
January 1, to                                                                                                             1980-
March 31, 1971        1972         1973         1974        1975         1976         1977          1978         1979     2000
Incremental Sales TMg                                                                                                19          76          138          202           278          372      465
-------------------------------------------------in thousands Rands-------------_
Incremental Revenues
Water Sales                                                         -               -                           15          61          124          182          250          334       418
Connection fees                                                     -               -                            6           6            6            6            6            6         6
Fixed Payment for Pipelinie                                         -               -              94           94          94           94           94           94           94        94
Total                                                         -                -              94         115         161           224          282          350          434       518
Incremental Operating Costs
Electricity                                                         -               -               -            1           2            4            7             9          12        15
Chemicals                                                                   -               -                    1           2            3            5            6             9       11
Salaries and Wages                                                  -               -               1            1           1            1            1             1            1        1
Supplies, Maintenance                                               -               -               _            1           1            2            2             3            3        4
Total                                                         -                -               1            4           6           10           15           19           25        31
Net Revenues                                                             -               -              93          ill         155          214           267          331          409       487
Capital Costs
Project                                                            188            1588            539           25          -            -            -            -            -         _
Other                                                               -               -              -            10          50          265           35           35            35       35
Total                                                        188             1588            539           35          50          265           35           35           35        35
Net CashFlow                                                           (188)           (1588)          (446)          76         105          (51)         232          296          374       452
Internal financial return approximately 12%.
January 6, 1971
0
CD



BOTSWANA
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
GABORONE-LOBATSE DIVISION
INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS - JANUARY 1, 1971 - MARCH 31, 1978
January 1-           ---------------------------Years ending March 31.---------------------------
March 31, 1971        1972        1973         1974        1975         1976        1977         1978
TOTAL WATER PRODUCED (IMg)                                         159               551         605         664          730         801          879         962
TOTAL WATER CONSUMED (IMg)                                         138               479         526          577         634         696          760         836
--------------------------------------------------Rands 000's-----------------------------------
OPERATING REVENUES
Water Sales                                                    69               383         421         462          507         626          684         753
Connection Fees and Miscellaneous                               1                 6           6           6            6           6            6           6
Fixed Charge for Pipeline                                       ..                _          94          94           94           94          94          94
Total Operating Revenues                                  70              389          521         562          607         726          784         853
OPERATING EXPENSES
Electricity                                                    13                46          49           53          58           63          68          73
Chemicals                                                       4                10          15          17           19          22           25          28
Transport, Maintenance and Supplies                             3                10          11          11           12          12           13          13
Salaries, Wages, Personal Emoluments                           12                87         108         112          117         122          128         132
Administration and General                                      4                16          13           10          10           10          10           10
Accounting Services                                              4               17          20           20          23           23          25           25
Total                                                       40               186         216         223          239          252         269          281
Depreciation                                                21                85         127          162         163          164         173          174
Total Operating Expenses                                  61               271         343          385         402          416         442          455
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                                                9              118         178          177         205          310          342         398
Interest                                                            45               182         284          353         350          373          359         360
NET INCOME (LOSS)                                                   (36)             (64)        (106)       (176)        (145)        (63)         (17)         38
Ratio of Total Operating Expenses to Total Revenue (%)               87               69           66          68           66          57           56          54
Return on Average Net Plant in Service (%)                            1.4              4.7          5.8         4.4          4.6         6.9          7.7         9.2 o
Note: Assumptions in Annex 13.
January 6, 1971



BOTSWANA
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
GABORONE-LOBATSE DIVISION
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS 1971-1978
in thousand Rands
January 1,-       ---------------------------Years ending March 31---------------------------
SOURCES OF CASH                                                     March 31, 1971       1972         1973         1974        1975         1976         1977         1978
From operat:ons:
Net Income (before T.-terest)                                   9              118         178          177         205          310          342           398
Add:  Depreciation                                             21               85         127          162         163          164          173          174
30              203        305           339        79            77           515          572
Add (Less:) Change in current items
other than cash                                              34               (5)         35           27           (2)           5          (13)         (10)
Total from Operations                                                     T 0                      =E         =3            469          502          562
Government of Botswana
Project
1MA Credit                                                    180             1430         535                 -                  -            -            -
Other                                                           8              158           4           25          -            -            -             -
Non-Project                                                         -                -           -           10          50          265           35           35
Total Sources of Cash                                   252             1786        879           401         416          734          537
APPLICATIONS OF CASH
Fixed Asset Expenditures:
Project:                                                     188             1588         539            25          -            -            -            _
Other                                                          -                -           -           10          50          265            35           35
Total Fixed Asset Expenditures                          188             1588         539           35          50          265           35           35
Debt Service-Government of Botswana
Principal
IDA Credit                                                  -               -            -             -          -             -            34           37
Other                                                       _               _            _            _           -           _              48           48
Total Principal                                          _               _            _            _           _           _             82           85
Interest
IDA Credit                                                   -               -            80          150         150          150          150          147
Other                                                       45              182         204          203         200           223          209          213
Total Interest                                           45              182         284          353         350          373          359          360
Total Debt Service                                                       182         284          353         350          37           441          445
Total Applications of Cash                              233             1770         823          388         400          638          476           480
Increase (decrease) in Cash                                               19                16          56           13          16           96           61          117
Cash at Beginning                                                          25               44          60          116         129          145          241          302
Cash at End                                                                44               60         116          129         145          241          302          419
Debt Service Coverage                                                       i.4              1.1         1.2          1.0         1.0          1.3          1.1           1.2
Note:  Assumptions in Annex 13
January 6, 1971



BOTSWANA
GABORONE-LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
GABORONE-LOBATSE DIVISION
ESTIMATED BALANCE SHEETS 1971-1978
in thousand Rands
January 1,                -----------------------------March 31.--------------_-______________________
-rent                                                             1971          1971         1972         1973        1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
Cash                                                            25              44           60         116         129          145          241          302           419
Accounts Receivable                                             35              26           32           35         38            42           52           57           63
Inventories                                                     20              20           21          21          22           22           23           23           23
Total Current Assets                                 80              90          113          172         189          209          316          382          505
sed
Cost                                                          2550            2550        2640         3833        4900         4950         5215         5250         5285
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                                -                21          106          233        395          558          722          895         1069
Net Plant in Service                                         2550            2529         2534         3600        4505         4392         4493         4355
Plant in Construction                                                         188         1686         1032         -            -            -            -            -
Total Fixed Assets                                    2550            2717         4220         4632        4505         4392         4493         4355         4216
TOTAL ASSETS                                          2630            _27_7       _7___         1__         __9_         70-1         4509         1737         V721
TIES AND ACCUMULATED EARNINGS
rrent Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                                35              15           17           17          18           19           20           20           20
Accrued Interest                                                                45           45           83         113          114          119          111          107
Total Current Liabilities                              35              6            62          100         131          133          139          131          127
!bt
Government of Botswana:
IDA Credit                                                    -              180         1610         2145        2145         2145         2145         2111         2074
Other                                                       2595            2603         2761         2765        2800         2850         3115         3102         308
Total Debt                                          2595            27910                                 _9__         499-5       _5__0         5213
:cumulated Earnings (Deficit)                                      _               (36)        (100)        (206)       (382)        (527)        (590)        (607)        (569)
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
ACCUMULATED EARNINGS (DEFTCTT)                         2630            2807         4333         4804       4694          46o0         4809         4737        4721
Note: Assumptions in Annex 13.
try 6, 1971



AMNEX 13
Page 1 of 2 pages
BOTS.,!,ANA
GABORONE-ILBATSE '_:T!ER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Assumptions used in preparing financial projections presented
in the report are as follows:
1.        The W4ater Utilities Corporation will commence operations on
January 1, 1971.
2.        Water charges will be at the existing rate of R 0.50hooo Ig
from January 1 to Mqarch 31, 1971; at an average rate of R 0.80A-000 Ig
from April 1, 1971 to March 31, 1975; and at an average rate of
R 0.90/1000 Ig from April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1978.
3.        The method of estimating the volume of water sales is as
described in Annex 2. *Water production is taken to be 15% greater than
water consumption.
4.        The fixed charge relating to the pipeline included in Operating
Revenues represents the charge to be made to BMC under a contract with
WUC. The charge is calculated at a fixed annual rate which will allow
WUC to recover the estimated capital cost of the pipeline (including
engineering and contingencies) of R 1.2 million over a period of 30 years
together with interest at 7% per annum.
5.        The following notes relate to operating expenses w-hich have been
estimated on the basis of information supplied by Government and WUC.
(a) Electricity costs are calculated in accordance with the
expected industrial tariff.
(b) Chemical costs are based on water produced and calculated
at the rate of R O.-Caho/o0 Ig for Gaborone and R 0.02/
1000 Ig for Lobatse with an escalation of 4% per annum
for price increases.
(c)  Salaries, wages and personal emoluments during the trans-
itional period prior to U1UC recruiting its owm staff are
based on DTHA and G.TE-UJ estimates. WIUC is assumed to com-
plete recruitment of its own staff by April 1, 1973. An
estimate for fringe benefits is included and anticipated
pay increases are taken into account. Inflation is taken
into account at 4% per annum.



A"TINEX 13
Page 2 oi.' 2 pages
(d)  Administration and General consists of office expenses,
3oard expenses, professional services and miscellaneous
items.
(e) Accounting services represent BPC fees.
(f) Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis at an
average rate of 3.3% per annum.
6.        Receivables are taken as about equal to one-twelfth of the
previous year's sales and payables as about one-twelfth of the year's
operating expenses.
7.        Payment to Governiment for the assets initially acquired by tJUC
is in the form of 30-year 7% debt, the terms of which include a 5-year
grace period for principal repayments, after which payments are at a
fixed annual rate including interest, over 25 years.
8.        :JUC is to pay only interest at 7% per annum on the DA credit
of R 2.1 (3 U.S.) million relent to it until MIay 1, 1976.  After this,
WUC is to repay its indebtedness through fixed annual payments, including
interest, over a period of 25 years.
9.        It is assumed that capital additions to FY 1977/78 are financed
out of Government loans although some cash accumulations would also be
available for this purpose. Cash accumulations above current requirements
would presumably be invested but the resulting interest has been ignored.
10.       Both consumer deposits, which are likely to be introduced in the
future and bad debts, which Government estimates as very low, are ignored.
11.       The balance sheet at January 1, 1971 reflects the position
after the transfer from Goverrment to IUJC of the water assets of GWqEU.
Government and WUFJC have agreed that fixed assets are to be valued at
R 2,550,000.  This figure is based on a valuation by D,hA at current
replacement cost, less depreciation, reduced by 20%.
January 6, 1971



To to/epo/o/e        To franc,stown
BOTSWANA
GABOR ONE - LOBATSE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT  WATE
GABOROE  GS ERBORVONE
TREATMENT PLANT & PUMPING STATIONS          A
-         G~~ABORONE DAM
Tonrs                    A  Project Treatment Plant 8 Pumping Stations'                        -i
Roads                    A  Existing Treatment Plant a Pumping Stations'  GABORONE   DAM
CATCHMENT
,,,,,------r   Railways              a  Project Reservoirs              /              1,500  SO. MILES
Catchment boundaries        *  Existing Reservoirs       /   /                                                 < NWAN4I DAM
Internaional boundaries
Project pipeline
*      .      < < @ @ @ @ Existing  pipelines
2        2      4     6     S     I10 Ml|                                                                                                           /
RAMOTSWA
CZ( RANAKA                                                                         \
OGOBANE
V  - a CTSIKLA,NE.                               OO TU /    SEN!E
CATCHMENT                                              /TREATM NT PLANT \
<_,__ 0 ( /t /         I s PUMPING STATION
\    CATCH1(N         ./ /V                         |    tg/,   
/  NA O                        LT SWARN RA E\,y B\ B /I C    F F
SITE OP  DOITIONA<~SEA NE I        ~J
AGO L A\.Z AM 8I1A  /\ t  )
K-+    t                                                                                S SOUTHERN     H It  I  \
l's.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
!  tG O   DEtrS    \.  R HIT OF ADIEITIINA     \                         DA\                                    /\
r B     T S W            A    N    A
A- B!TSWAN A                               r,O- M sI
I~~                      ~~                                                                            -.-.--/-.-               _      _      / 
O  i \              ,     / n ioSEE  COP,                 //                                   
j(      /        0   U T HJ MAEF R I C A                z  t               SOURCES  -DEPARTMENT OP SURVEYS AND LAND -MAP OP THE REPUBLIC OP BOTSWANA 1970
OO     F9A_                                                                                                                                                   BR S0  -BSNR
DCTOBER '970                                                                                                                                           IBRD-A30R7R



