CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 233 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Gaborone-Lobatse Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 233 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Gaborone-Lobatse Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF
BOTSWANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Water Utilities Corporation with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Water Utilities Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Water Utilities Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02; and
(c)   paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 is deleted and paragraph (i) of said
Section is relettered as paragraph (h).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BMC" means Botswana Meat Commission, a statutory entity
established under Botswana Meat Commission Law (No. 22), 1965 of Botswana;
(b)   "Gaborone-Lobatse Division" means the operating organization within
the Water Corporation providing water supply services to the Gaborone and Lobatse
areas;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Water Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Water Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(e)   "Water Corporation" means the Water Utilities Corporation, a statutory
corporation established under the Water Utilities Corporation Act, 1970 as
amended in November 1970, of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
.hall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿5
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1973, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December I in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June I    and    Docember 1    commencing     June 1, 1981    and    ending
December 1, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of ihe United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Water Corporation to carry
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Water
Corporation under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Water Corporation under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿6
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable the Water Corporation
to perform all of its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might
interfere with such performance.
(e)   Without limiting or restricting    the Borrower's obligations under
paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower specifically undertakes to enable the
Water Corporation to establish and maintain tariffs at such levels as may be
necessary for the Water Corporation to fulfill the requirements of Section 4.03
of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist th  Water Corporation in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall cause the Water Corporation to employ consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Water Corporation in carrying
out the Project to employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Water Corporation to insure, or to make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Water Corporation to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or
amplifications thereof, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿7
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause the Water Corporation to: (i)
maintain records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Water Corporation (i) to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Water
Corporation, and (ii) to establish and maintain separate accounts for the
Gaborone-Lobatse Division.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Water Corporation to: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements, including the separate accounts for the
Gaborone-Lobatse Division, (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information  concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Water
Corporation and the audit thereof as the Association shall from   time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Water Corporation to take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause BMC (i) to complete, within twelve
months after the date of this Agreement, a study on the proper and efficient


﻿8
methods and procedures for the treatment of the abattoir effluent, and (ii) to
complete and operate, within thirty months after the date of this Agreement,
adequate facilities for the treatment of the abattoir effluent so as to keep any
surface or ground water pollution within limits acceptable to the Association.
(b)   In the event the treated water is used for aquifer recharge, the Borrower
shall take all necessary measures to control such recharge so as to avoid excessive
concentration of dissolved solids.
Section 4.04. The Borrower undertakes to transfer the total suni of its rights
to the system for the supply of water in the Gaborone-Lobatse Division to the
Water Corporation, effective January 1, 1971, on conditions which are acceptable
to the Association. This shall be taken to include ownership of all moveable
corporeal assets and all permanent assets forming part of the system but not the
ownership of the land on which the Gaborone, Notwane and Nuane Dams are
situated. Such assets shall be transferred at a valuation of Rands 2,550,000 in
the currency of the Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Water Corporation shall make ten consecutive equal semi-annual payments to
the Borrower of Rands 89,250 in the currency of the Borrower commencing on
July 1, 1971, and thereafter shall make fifty consecutive equal semi-annual
payments to the Borrower of Rands 108,716 in the currency of the Borrower.
The Water Corporation shall have the right to administer the whole system without
further charges by the Borrower. The monies directed to be transferred in terms
of Section 3 of the Gaborone Water and Electricity Project Fund (Dissolution)
Act, 1970, and the claims vested in terms of the Water Utilities Corporation
(Vesting of Claims) Notice, 1970, shall be regarded as unredeemable capital of
the government invested in the corporation which shall bear no interest prior to
January 1, 1978, and thereafter shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding seven
per cent (7%) per annum, to be specified annually by the Borrower with the
concurrence of the Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to abolish, by
April 30, 1971, the allowance for free water supply to its civil servants.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Assoiation shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿9
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Water Corporation of its obligations under
the Project Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Water Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of the Water Corporation and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
or the performance by the Water Corporation of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, sites, works,
property and equipment of the Water Corporation and to visit any part of the
territories of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿10
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of the Water Corporation under the Project Agreement.
(b)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation Linder the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement by the parties thereto.
(c)   The Water Corporation shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Water
Corporation or by others whereby any of the property of the Water Corporation
shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Water Corporation
or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   The Water Utilities Corporation Act, 1970 of the Borrower, as amended
in November 1970, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated in such a


﻿11
way as to materi .ly and adversely affect the ability of the Water Corporation
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement or in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Water Corporation will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified:
(a)   Any event specified in Section 7.02 (a), (b) or (e) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the Water Corporation.
(b)   Any event specified in Section 7.02 (c) or (d) of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Water Corporation have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Water Corporation, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(c)   The Water Corporation shall have made arrangements satisfactory to
the Association with the Department of Water Affairs of the Borrower
under which the Department of Water Affairs shall provide managerial
and technical staff to assist the Water Corporation in carrying out the
Project and in managing the business and conducting the operations
of the Water Corporation.


﻿12
(d)   The Water Corporation shall have made arrangements satisfactory to
the Association for:
(i)   the management of the accounting affairs of the Water
Corporation; and
(ii)  the water meter-reading and billing.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Water Corporation, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Water Corporation
in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and the Water Corporation, respectively, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and the Water Corporation in
accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date May 14, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01 (c),
3.05 (b), 4.01 (a), 4.01 (b) and 5.02 (a) of this Agreement and the provisions
of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister for the time being responsible for Finance and
Development Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
and Development Planning
Private Bag No. 8
Gaborone, Botswana
Cable address:
Finance
Gaborone
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By /s / Chief Linchwe II
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in            % of Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
I.    Pipeline, equipment,           1,830,000            100% of foreign ex-
materials, supplies                                 penditures
and vehicles
II.   Civil works                      390,000            90% of total expendi-
tures
III.  Consultants' services            280,000            100% of total expendi-
tures
IV.   Unallocated                      500,000
TOTAL         3,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also
that of another member of the Bank in the territories of which goods are produced
or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures in such currency
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and


﻿15
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred after August 1, 1970 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000
equivalent; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the improvement and expansion of the water supply
facilities of, and managerial assistance to, the Water Corporation in the Gaborone
and Lobatse areas, including:
A.    the construction of a pipeline between Gaborone Dam and Nuane waterworks
(about 32 miles), together with related pumping stations and ancillary works;
B.    the construction in Gaborone of a 2 lMgd treatment plant, a 3 IMg reservoir,
raw and clean water pumping stations and mains, distribution extensions,
pipe work and associated equipment;
C.    the construction of a 1.25 IMg storage reservoir in Lobatse, togetl.:- with
transmission mains, distribution extensions and ancillary equipment; and
D.    the provision of technical assistance, housing, vehicles, workshop, laboratory,
main laying and miscellaneous equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1972.


