CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 233 BT
Project Agreement
(Gaborone-Lobatse Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 233 BT
Project Agreement
(Gaborone-Lobatse Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
DATED FEBRUARY 10, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1971, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and WATER
UTILITIES CORPORATION (hereinafter called the Water Corporation).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
the Republic of Botswana (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
three million dollars ($3,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Water Corporation
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Water Corporation, the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Water
Corporation on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Water Corporation, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Water Corporation shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and


﻿4
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Water Corporation in carrying out the
Project, the Water Corporation shall employ engineering and accounting consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out the Project, the Water Corporation shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.04. As soon as the Water Corporation shall have appointed
sufficient number of qualified and experienced managerial and technical staff, which
shall be not later than December 31, 1973, the Water Corporation shall terminate
the arrangements with the Department of Water Affairs referred to in Section 8.01
(c) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to the Water Corporation by the Borrower shall be procured
on the basis of international competition uinder procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
(b)   The Water Corporation undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Water Corporation to replace or repair
such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Water Corporation
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Water Corporation shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction schedules for the Project, and any material modifications or
amplifications thereof, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿*                                            5
(b)   The Water Corporation: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. The Water Corporation shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Water Corporation shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE Ill
Management and Operations of the Water Corporation
Section 3.01. (a) The Water Corporation shall operate its business and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
and shall operate, maintain, renew and repair its plants, equipment and property,
including the Project, in accordance with sound engineering and public utility
practices.
(b)   The Water Corporation shall consult the Association about any
proposed appointment to the position of the chief executive officer of the Water
Corporation sufficiently in advance of any such appointment for the Association
to have adequate opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience
of the person, or persons, the Water Corporation is considering for the position
and shall make any such appointment only after consideration of the views
expressed by the Association.
(c)   The Water Corporation shall consult the Association about any
proposed material change in the structure of its organization and operations
sufficiently in advance of any such change for the Association to have adequate
opportunity to comment thereon and shall make any such change only after
consideration of the views expressed by the Association.


﻿6
(d)   The Water Corporation shall take all action reasonably required to
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises, and to acquire
all property, necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. The Water Corporation shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
Section 3.03. The Water Corporation shall not, without the consent of the
Association, sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or
assets which shall be required for the efficient carrying on of the operations of
the Water Corporation.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Water Corporation shall (i) maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition, and (ii) establish and maintain separate accounts
for the Gaborone-Lobatse Division.
Section 4.02. The Water Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements, including the separate accounts for the Gaborone-Lobatse Division,
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Water Corporation and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Water
Corporation shall take all necessary steps to establish and maintain water tariffs
and other charges for the water supply services provided by the Gaborone-Lobatse
Division sufficient to (i) satisfy all provisions of Section 19 of the Water Utilities
Corporation Act, 1970, applied to the Gaborone-Lobatse Division as a separate
accounting entity, and (ii) earn an annual rate of return on the value of the net


﻿7
fixed assets in operation of the Gaborone-Lobatse Division of not less than 4-1/2%
for the financial years 1972 through 1975, 7% for the financial years 1976 and
1977 and 8% thereafter.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income of the Gaborone-Lobatse Division for the year
in question to the average of the value of the net fixed assets
in operation of the Gaborone-Lobatse Division at the beginning
and at the end of each financial year.
(ii)        The term "value of the net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross value of such assets, less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, all determined in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation, revaluation and
depreciation, acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from the water supply
services provided by the Gaborone-Lobatse Division, and
(B)   the  operating  and  administration  expenses of the
Gaborone-Lobatse Division, including taxes (if any),
adequate maintenance and depreciation based on the
straight-line method at an average rate of not less than
3.3%, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)        Each financial year shall be identified by the calendar year in
which the financial year ends.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Water
Corporation shall not amend its contract with BMC dated December 18, 1970,
providing for the payments by BMC of the fixed annual charges for the
Gaborone-Nuane pipeline and of other charges for industrial and domestic water
uses.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   The Water Corporation shall not incur total debt in any financial year
in an amount exceeding $75,000 equivalent and shall not undertake any expansion


﻿8
program or acquire any capital assets involving an amount exceeding $100,000
equivalent.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section, the term "debt" means all debt except
debt maturing by its terms on demand or not more than one year after its
incurrence.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Water Corporation shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end,
the Association and the Water Corporation shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance  of   their respective  obligations  under  this Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Water Corporation and
other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Water Corporation shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either
of them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and the Water Corporation of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Water Corporation shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Water
Corporation and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Water Corporation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following
two dates:


﻿9
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Water Corporation of this event and, upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
For the Water Corporation:
The Water Utilities Corporation
Private Bag No. 29
Gaborone
Botswana
Cable address:
WATER
Gaborone
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Water Corporation may be taken or executed by the Secretary or such
other person or persons as the Water Corporation shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Water Corporation shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Water Corporation, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by the Water Corporation pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
By /s / Chief Linchwe II
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works or equipment estimated to cost
$25,000 equivalent or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to pre-qualify, the Water Corporation shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for pre-qualification, shall be furnished by the Water Corporation to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Water
Corporation shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Water Corporation shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedure to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification or addition to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Water Corporation
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of
the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Water
Corporation's consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of said consultants, and the reasons
for the intended award. The Association shall promptly inform the Water
Corporation whether it has any objection to the intended award and shall state
the reasons for any objection it may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or
if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e)   Copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution.


﻿12
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works or equipment, the Water
Corporation shall, promptly after the contract is awarded, furnish to the Association
a copy of the contract as well as a copy of the record of public opening of the
bids, the bid evaluation report and recommendations for award of the Water
Corporation's consultants and a statement of the reasons for any departure from
such  recommendation. The Association shall promptly inform    the Water
Corporation if it finds that the award of the contract is not consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits and, in such
event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


