Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13715-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1995
Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Honduran Lempira 1.0 = US $0.11 (February 1995)
SDR 1.0 = US $1.47 (January 31, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The Metric System is used throughout the report



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGSAC           Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 2540-HO)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CESCCO          Center for the Study and Control of Contaminants (Centro de Estudios y Control de
Contaminantes)
COCONA          National Consultative Council of the Environment (Consejo Consultivo Nacional del
Ambiente)
COHDEFOR    Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (Corporacion Hondurenia de
Desarrollo Forestal)
CONAMA          National Commission of the Environment (Comision Nacional del Medio Ambiente)
CPPR            Country Portfoho Performance Review
CSJ             Supreme Court (Corte Suprema de Justicia)
CTA             Technical Advisory Committee (Comitd Tecnico Asesor)
DECA            General Directorate of Environmental Assessment and Control (Direccion General
de Evaluacion y Control Ambiental)
DGAM            General Directorate of Environmental Services of the Ministry of Public Health
(Direcci6n General de Atencion al Medio de la Secretaria de Salud Pu`blica)
DIGEPESCA    General Directorate of Fisheries of the Ministry of Natural Resources (Direccion
General de Pesca de la Secretaria de Recursos Naturales)
DMH             General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons of the Ministry of Natural
Resources (Direcci6n General de Minas e Hidrocarburos de la Secretaria de
Recursos Naturales)
DPPA            General Directorate of Environmental Policy and Planning (Direccion General de
Politicas y Planificaci6n Ambiental)
DRH             General Directorate of Water Resources of the Ministry of Natural Resources
(Direcci6n General de Recursos Hidricos de la Secretaria de Recursos Naturales)
EIA             Environmental Impact Assessment (Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental)
EJ              Judicial School of the Supreme Court (Escuela Judicial de la Corte Suprema de
Justicia)
ENEE            National Electric Energy Company (Empresa Nacional de Energia Eldctrica)
FA/FGR          Environmental Prosecutor's Office of the Public Prosecutor's Office (Fiscalia del
Ambiente de la Fiscalia General de la Repuiblica)
FGR             Public Prosecutor's Office (Fiscalia General de la Repuiblica)
FHIS            Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondurenio de Inversi6n Social)
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GIS             Geographic Information System
GOH             Government of Honduras
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Association
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IDF             Institutional Development Fund
IIJ             Juridical Research Institute of the National Autonomous University of Honduras
(Instituto de Investigaciones Juridicas de la Universidad Aut6noma de Honduras)
IHT             Honduran Tourism Institute (Instituto Hondurefio de Turismo)
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
LGA             General Environmental Law (Ley General del Ambiente)
LIB             Limited International Bidding



NGO             Non Govenmment Organization
NIF             Not IDA-financed
PA/PGR          Environmental Attorney's Office of the General Attomey's Office (Procuraduria del
Ambiente de la Procuraduria General de la Republica)
PAAD            Environment and Development Action Plan (Plan de Accion de Ambiente y
DesarroUlo)
PASI            Informal Sector Support Program (Programa de Apoyo al Sector Informal)
PCU             SEDA's Project Coordination Unit (Unidad de Coordinacion del Proyecto de la
SEDA)
PGR             General Attomey's Office (Procuraduria General de la Republica)
PHRD            Pohcy and Human Resources Development Fund
SANAA           National Autonomous Water and Sewage Service (Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de
Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
SDR             Special Drawing Right
SECPLAN         Ministry of Coordination, Planning and Budget (Secretaria de Coordinacion,
Planificaci6n y Presupuesto)
SECOPT          Ministry of Communications, Public Works and Transport (Secretaria de
Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas y Transporte)
SEDA            Ministry of the Environment (Secretaria del Ambiente)
SHCP            Ministry of Finance (Secretaria Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SINEIA          National System of Environmental Impact Assessment (Sistema Nacional de
Evaluacion de Impacto Ambiental)
SINIA           National System of Environmental Infomiation (Sistema Nacional de Informacion
Ambiental)
SRN             Ministry of Natural Resources (Secretaria de Recursos Naturales)
SSP             Ministry of Public Health (Secretaria de Salud Publica)
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
UNAH            National Autonomous University of Honduras (Universidad Aut6noma de
Honduras)
[JPSA           Agriculture Sector Planning Unit (Unidad de Planificaci6n Sectorial Agricola)
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
UOT             Land Use Planning Unit of the Ministry of Coordination, Planning and Budget
(Unidad de Ordenamiento Territorial de la Secretaria de Coordinacion, Planeamiento
y Presupuesto)
VAT             Value Added Tax



HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................................                                                                         iii
1. BACKGROUND .........................................................1
A. Introduction .........................................................1
B. Geographic  and  Socio-Economic  Context ........................................................                                                     1
2. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR .........................................................3
A. Overview .........................................................3
B. Key  Environmental Issues .........................................................3
C. Legal and  Institutional Framework .........................................................5
D. Government Sectoral Policy, Strategy, and  Objectives ........................................................7
E. Assistance Strategy .........................................................8
F. Lessons of Experience .........................................................9
G. Rationale  for IDA   Involvement ........................................................                                                           10
3. THE PROJECT .........................................................11
A. Project Objectives .................................................1....... 1
B. Project Description .........................................................11
(1) Environmental Planning  and  Legislation  Component ................................................... 12
a. Environmental and  Land  Use Planning ........................................................                                           13
b. National Environmental Information  System  ........................................................     14
c. Legal and  Regulatory  Framework ........................................................ 15
d. Training  and  Public  Awareness .........................................................                                               17
(2) Environmental Quality  Assessment Component ........................................................   17
a. National System   of Environmental Impact Assessment ............................................. 17
b. Pilot Projects for Environmental Impact Assessment and Auditing ........................... 18
(3) Local Government Environmental Management Component ........................................ 18
a. Technical Assistance for Municipal Environmental Management ............................. 19
b. Environmental Investments ........................................................                                                       19
(4) Administration  and  Project Coordination  Component .................................................. 22
a. Technical Assistance to  SEDA's Administrative  Unit .............................................. 22
b. Project Coordination  and  Management                                        ........................................................ 23
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN ........................................................                                                               24
A. Project Costs                                                                          ........................................................ 24
B. Financing Plan ........................................................                                                                            26
C. Recurrent Costs Arising  from   the  Project ........................................................                                              26
D. SEDA's Budget and  Project Sustainability .................................................................                                          26
5. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......................................................... 28
A. Status of Preparation                                                         ................................................................. 28
B. Implementation  Arrangements and  Schedule .................................................................    28
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission which visited Honduras on June 29 - July 9,
1994. The mission members were Messrs./Mmnes. Carlos E. Quintela (Task Manager), Anita Artaza, Eduardo Forno,
Robert Kanchuger, Alberto Ninio, Juan Quintero, and Victor Vergara. Peer reviewers are Messrs. Philip Hazelton
(LA3NR) and Luis Pisani (LAI HR). Messrs. Edilberto Segura, Michael Baxter, and Ted Nkodo are the Director,
Division Chief, and Projects Adviser, respectively.



ii
C. Procurement ................................................................ 29
D. Disbursements ................................................................                                                               32
E. Accounts and  Audits ................................................................                                                        34
F. Project Supervision, Monitoring  and  Evaluation ..................................................... ......... 35
6. EXPECTED   BENEFITS  AND   RISKS ................................................................                                                 36
A. Benefits ................................................................                                                                    36
B. Risks ................................................................                                                                       37
7. AGREEMENTS  AND  RECOMMENDATION  ................................................................                                                  39
A .  A greem    ents                                                          ................................................................ 39
B. Recommendation ................................................................                                                              40
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1: Participating Municipalities in the Local Government Environmental Management
C om   ponent                                                       ................................................................ 20
Table 2:  Proposed  Environmental Subproject Categories for FHIS ............................ ................ 22
Table  3:  Estimated  Project Costs ................................................................                                                 25
Table 4: Financing  Plan ................................................................                                                            26
Table 5: Financing  Plan  by  Expenditure  Category ................................................................                                    27
Table 6: Financing  Plan  for Incremental Recurrent Costs ........................................................... 27
Table  7:  Minimum   Projected  Increase in  SEDA's Budget .......................................................... 28
Table  8:  Procurement Arrangements ................................................................                                                 30
Table  9:  Estimated  Schedule of IDA  Disbursements ................................................................ 33
Table  10:  Financing  Plan  and  Estimated  Annual Disbursements ................................................. 34
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex A: General Description of the National System of Environmental Impact Assessment
Annex B: Institutional and Legal Framework
Annex C: General Description of the Ministry of the Environment
Annex D: Policy Statement from the Government of Honduras
Annex E: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex F: Detailed Costs Tables
Annex G: General Description of Honduran Social Investment Fund
Annex H: Commitment Letter for Counterpart Financing by the Government of Honduras
Annex I:  Monitoring and Reporting
Annex J:  Supervision Plan
Annex K: Project Priority Letter from the Government of Honduras
Annex L: Documents in Project File
Map: IBRD 26390



iii
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        The Republic of Honduras
Implementing
Agency:          The Ministry of the Environment (Secretaria del Ambiente - SEDA)
Beneficiaries:   The Ministry of the Environment (SEDA), the Honduran Social
Investment Fund (Fondo Hondurefno de Inversi6n Social - FHIS), line
ministries and agencies, and municipalities.
Poverty:         Not applicable.
Amount:          SDR 7.4 million (US $10.8 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity and 10 years of grace.
Commitment Fee: 0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:   See para. 4.4
Economic Rate
of Return:       Not applicable.
Environmental
Classification:    B
Map:             IBRD 26390






HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1   Honduras is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the Latin America
and Caribbean Region, with an annual per capita income of $580. About one third of the
population lives in extreme poverty. Although the natural resource potential of Honduras
is substantial, population growth of about 3% annually, along with inappropriate land
management and forestry policies, have been responsible for the conversion of large areas
of high forestry potential into other less suitable activities, the destruction of vital
watersheds, and the loss of important biodiversity assets. Unplanned urban settlements,
the lack of budgetary resources and inefficient cost recovery policies to finance the
necessary infrastructure are among the leading causes of inadequate quality of water
supply, poor sanitation, deficient solid waste management, and the resulting health
problems.
1.2   Public awareness of the importance of protecting the country's valuable timber,
soil, water, and coastal resources and improving the quality of urban life has been growing
as a result of increasing evidence that the unsustainable exploitation of these resources and
urban deterioration threaten the country's economic development and health. Legislation
for agriculture, forestry, and municipal government has been enacted which has helped
establish a framework for improved resource management. The Government of Honduras
(GOH) has also moved to coordinate and implement its environmental policy by enacting
in July 1993 an Environmental Law (Ley General del Ambiente - LGA), which established
a Ministry of the Environment (Secretaria del Ambiente - SEDA), issuing implementing
regulations, and completing the Environment and Development Action Plan (Plan de
Acci6n del Ambiente y Desarrollo - PAAD). The new Administration, which assumed
office in January 1994, has affirmed the environmental initiatives of its predecessor, as
well as the commitment to protect the environment and promote the sustainable use of the
country's natural resources.
B. Geographic and Socio-Economic Context
1.3   Honduras is a heavily forested and predominantly mountainous country, with
narrow coastal plains and numerous inland valleys. It straddles Central America, between
the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. Its subtropical climate, with wide variations of
humidity, provides a habitat for a diversity of flora and fauna. In that rich and diverse
region, and under limited resource use regimes, indigenous peoples in pre-Columbian
times managed to thrive and prosper. With an increasing demand for natural resources



2
and population pressure, which continues at a 3% population annual growth rate,
Honduras is facing a much different reality.
1.4   Because of its topography, the arable land available for cultivation in Honduras is
limited. Only about 25% of the land area is classified as suitable for agriculture and
livestock. Areas suitable only for forestry, on the other hand, originally covered about
two-thirds of the territory. However, a series of factors, among them the concentration of
land ownership in few hands, policies that discouraged the sustainable use of forests, and
high population growth rates, have resulted in the expansion of agriculture, mostly in the
hands of the rural poor, into marginal areas, as well as in non-selective timber extraction
practices, The consequences of these trends have been the accelerated loss of vegetation
cover, notably the reduction of the actual forest cover to about 45% of the total land area,
and the increased incidence and severity of soil erosion, which in turn have deeply affected
local water cycles and the productive potential of agricultural land.
1.5   The economy of Honduras is relatively small and highly sensitive to changes in the
external environment as a result of its dependence on a few export commodities and donor
assistance, and because of a heavy debt burden. Manufacturing and mining industries
combined account for approximately 25% of GDP. Manufacturing has been traditionally
dominated by agro-industries, but has diversified in recent years to include apparel,
electrical appliances, leather goods, and various assembly type products produced mainly
for the US market. The service sector (including public administration) accounts for the
remaining 35% of GDP, which includes a small tourism sector with potential for further
growth.
1.6   Agriculture, directly and indirectly, accounts for about 40% of GDP, 80% of
merchandise exports, and about 60% of employment. Banana and coffee are the leading
traditional export products, accounting for about 60% of total exports. Shrimp and
lobster exports have grown dramatically in recent years, rising from about 3% of total
exports in 1980 to about 13% in 1992. Although the forestry sector has great potential,
the export value of primary forest products decreased by more than 40% during the
1980s, and now accounts for about 6% of exports. The agricultural sector presents the
anomaly of a small number of relatively technologically advanced and prosperous
producers of the country's principal export products existing alongside a large number of
very poor and small farmers who eke out a subsistence existence on lands that are
frequently not well suited for agriculture.
1.7   Increased agricultural productivity is one of Honduras' most promising avenues for
future economic growth. This can be achieved through modernizing production
technologies and by moving large areas from low-value crops such as corn, beans, and
sorghum, to higher value export crops such as melons and pineapples. The rich natural
resource base of Honduras can accommodate further expansion in some sectors, such as
fisheries and the rational development of forestry resources. However, the sustainability
of this growth is dependent on the protection, adequate management, and rational use
these resources.



3
2. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR
A. Overview
2.1   The GOH, and the public in general, have become increasingly aware of the extent
and seriousness of environmental degradation in Honduras and its potential negative social
and economic impact. The country has had difficulty in managing its environmental
problems as a result of previous inappropriate policies, institutional weaknesses, poor
coordination between government agencies, and incomplete and unclear legislation. In an
effort to develop a more comprehensive and coordinated set of environmental policies, the
Government created the National Commission for the Environment (Comisi6n Nacional
del Medio Ambiente - CONAMA) in July 1990, with responsibility for preparing
legislation, developing policies and regulations, establishing training programs, and
monitoring compliance with international treaties. CONAMA, supported by an
Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant, drafted the PAAD described above. As a
result of the enactment of the draft legislation into law in July 1993, CONAMA became
the Ministry of the Environment, SEDA. Since achieving ministerial status, SEDA has
prepared implementing regulations and regulations for the preparation of environmental
impact assessments that have been issued by the Government.
2.2   The enactment of the LGA, the issuance of the PAAD, and the initial regulations
issued by the GOH have been major achievements in themselves. They are the basis on
which to develop institutions and improve environmental management at the national and
local levels, and by public agencies and private organizations. However, the development
of a sound institutional framework on which to support a broad and far-reaching
environmental agenda and to implement the growing body of environmental laws and
regulations has only just barely begun. The proposed project's fundamental goal is to
assist the GOH in its efforts to move these initiatives forward.
B. Key Environmental Issues
2.3   Honduras' principal environmental concern is the sustainable use of natural
resources. The key environmental issues identified in the PAAD are related to
deforestation, soil degradation, water pollution, depletion of coastal and marine resources,
and the loss of biodiversity.
2.4   The most visible and perhaps most pressing environmental issue is that of
deforestation. In the last thirty years, Honduras has lost about 40% of its forest,
principally as a result of an advancing agricultural frontier and extensive livestock
ranching, in addition to logging and firewood extraction. More than half of the cleared
land was only suitable for forestry, so that deforestation has neither served the interests of
the environment, nor that of sustainable agricultural development. Until 1992, the
Agrarian Reform Law and forestry law and policies established a perverse set of incentives



4
which encouraged cutting the forest and replacing it with crops or pasture to avoid
possible expropriation of land and lumber resources. The GOH's monopoly of timber
exports, direct intervention in pricing and production, and controls over the production
and marketing of wood and agriculture products, reflected and encouraged the short-run,
extractive nature of the Honduran forest resource utilization by small and large
enterprises, and inhibited the development of sustainable practices in the private sector
forestry industry. The increased rates of deforestation and loss of vegetation cover have
had a serious effect on the health of watersheds, exacerbating the effects of regional
precipitation patterns by disrupting local water cycles. In recent years, the diminished
water flows in the summer caused by lower than average precipitation and watershed
destruction are creating scarcities of potable water to meet urban needs, and of water for
irrigation and energy generation. For the same reasons, in the winter months, the flood
cycle in some areas has decreased from fifteen to twenty years cycles to become annual
events. These problems have been aggravated by Honduras' rapidly growing population
(the country's 3% annual growth rate is one of the highest in Latin America), an increased
urban population (which now accounts for 40% of the total country population), and the
growing demand for potable and irrigation water.
2.5   Soil degradation occurs in two principal ways in Honduras. One is with respect to
poor farmers engaged in hillside farmning. It is estimated that at least 25% of the land used
for agriculture falls into this category and that 30 to 40% of the population is engaged in
subsistence level hillside farming. Improper farming practices have led to significant soil
erosion, which has had negative economic and ecological consequences. Soil erosion has
been responsible for agricultural production losses and river, dam and coastal area
siltation. The second concerns flatland agricultural activities in the coastal plains and
valleys. These lands have been dedicated for decades to extensive livestock production
and the production of export crops. Soils have been depleted because of monoculture
practices and contaminated by the indiscriminate use of agricultural chemicals, causing
both economic loss and health hazards.
2.6   Water pollution has several causes. The often excessive and uncontrolled use of
chemical fertilizers and pesticides, particularly in coffee and banana production, has
contaminated both water and soils. The lack of adequate sewage treatment facilities has
contaminated the country's major rivers. Inadequate handling of solid wastes, and the
failure to treat industrial and hospital wastes has also increased water and soil
contamination.
2.7   The depletion of marine and coastal resources has become a matter of increasing
concern as shrimp farming continues to play an increasingly important role in the national
economy. The estuaries and mangroves of both coasts have been subject to deterioration
as a result of their over-exploitation and contamination. According to a 1993 study, as
reported by SEDA, between 1989 and 1992, 17% of the high-quality mangroves
(categories other than stressed and dwarf mangroves) in the Gulf of Fonseca were lost.
Coral reefs have been destroyed in the Bay Islands area on the Atlantic coast at an



5
alarming rate as a result of tourism, sedimentation, and contamination. Recorded fish
catches on both coasts have also fallen in recent years.
2.8    The expansion of Honduras' agricultural frontier and the destruction of its forest
cover have been the principal cause of the loss of biodiversity. Honduras has diverse
ecosystems, with rich flora and fauna, particularly in its humid tropical and subtropical
forests. Although the GOH has identified and is pursuing various programs for preserving
biodiversity, its most important efforts will be aimed at the sustainable use and
conservation of forests and natural resources.
C. Legal and Institutional Framework
2.9    Honduras' 1982 Constitution establishes the general framework for environmental
protection and the enactment of environmental laws. Article 45 gives the State the
responsibility of maintaining an environment that will protect the health of the people, and
Article 340 provides authority for it to regulate natural resources and for granting use
permits to the private sector. However, it was not until July 1993 that the LGA was
enacted. The new law has substantially altered the legal and institutional framework for
environmental management by:
* establishing the principle that coordinated planning and management are necessary for
the successful management and preservation of natural resources;
* creating a lead environmental agency, SEDA, with responsibility for sector policy
development, coordination, and planning;
X requiring environmental impact assessments for public and private activities with
potentially negative environmental consequences, as established in the regulations of
the National System of Environmental Impact Assessment (Sistema Nacional de
Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental, SINEIA), which are summarized in Annex A;
* providing for the issuance of environmental standards and regulations; and
* creating a legal environmental enforcement arm, the Environmental Attorney's Office
(Procuraduria del Ambiente - PA/PGR).
2.10 SEDA's principal responsibilities, in addition to its policy, planning, and
coordination activities, include: (a) providing technical assistance to sector agencies and
municipalities; (b) coordinating the development of a national land use plan;' (c)
evaluating environmental impact assessments and the issuance of environmental licenses
Land use planning (Ordenamiento Territorial), as defined by SECPLAN, has three dimensions:
infrastructure, human settlements, and natural resources, sensu lato. All land use planning initiatives
by the GOH will be carried out in this context, from basic information management to the actual
implementation of the resulting land use plan (Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial).



6
for projects; and (d) developing environmental norms and standard. The law creating
SEDA limits its staff to 35 persons. In the short time since its creation, SEDA has
focused on recruiting staff, issuing the PAAD and key regulations, and on preparing this
project. A description of the current institutional and legal framework for environmental
management and of SEDA can be found in Annex B and Annex C, respectively.
2.11   SEDA faces some difficult challenges in fulfilling its legislative mandate to carry
out its responsibilities under the LGA. It is correctly giving priority to the building of its
staff and competence. However, it also faces the challenge of establishing its
environmental leadership position. Sector agencies, often representing interests more
concerned with exploitation rather than conservation of natural resources, and operating
under their own laws and with large bureaucracies, may resist being integrated into the
environmental approach established by the new law. In addition to national agencies,
Honduras' 291 municipalities, with important environmental responsibilities under the
1992 Municipal Law, must be integrated into the new scheme. Overcoming sector agency
resistance and establishing leadership will require SEDA to demonstrate competence,
political skill, and commitment.
2.12  The most important sectoral agencies with environmental responsibilities are: (a)
the Ministry of Natural Resources (Secretaria de Recursos Naturales - SRN), which has
jurisdiction over forestry, agriculture, mining, water resources, and fisheries; (b) the
Ministry of Public Health (Secretaria de Salud Publica - SSP), which has jurisdiction over
water quality and food products; and (c) the Ministry of Communications, Public Works
and Transport (Secretaria de Comunicaciones, Obras Publicas y Transporte - SECOPT),
which is responsible for large public sector infrastructure projects. Other important
agencies with environmental responsibilities include the Honduran Forestry Development
Corporation (Corporaci6n Hondurefia de Desarrollo Forestal - COHDEFOR), the
National Electric Energy Company (Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica - ENEE), the
National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service (Servicio Nacional Aut6nomo de
Acueductos y Alcantarillados - SANAA), and the Honduras Tourism Institute (Instituto
Hondurefio de Turismo - IHT). The Ministry of Planning (Secretaria de Coordinaci6n,
Planificaci6n y Presupuesto - SECPLAN) retains important planning authorities that affect
the environment, particularly in relation to public investment and land use planning.
2.13  In addition to the LGA and the Municipal Law, which affect general environmental
management, there are many laws covering sector specific issues. A list of these laws,
which are sometimes conflicting and overlapping, is contained in Annex B. A new law has
recently been enacted that creates the Public Prosecutor's Office (Fiscalia General de la
Republica - FGR) that will share criminal and judicial enforcement responsibilities with the
PA/PGR. Knowledge of the LGA and the various laws that affect environmental quality
and management is limited, not only in the general public, but also in the legal community.
This is due not only to the newness, complexity and conflicting nature of some of the laws,
but to a lack of training in environrnental law matters and problems in the publication and
distribution of the laws. Within the framework provided by the LGA, it will now be
necessary to resolve outstanding conflicts in the law and to issue required environmental



7
standards and regulations. The criminal laws and enforcement procedures will have to be
developed to assure compliance with the law.
2.14  The enactment of the LGA, the establishment of SEDA, and the issuance of the
PAAD have provided a legal and institutional base for managing the environment. The
proposed project is designed to build on that base through the institutional strengthening
and investments that it will finance.
D. Government Sectoral Policy, Strategy, and Objectives
2.15   The GOH's sectoral policy, strategy and objectives are set out in the PAAD and
amplified and confirmed in the attached policy statement (Annex D). The GOH'sis
dedicated to protecting the environment and the promotion of sustainable development of
the country's natural resources.
2.16  As already noted, deforestation is Honduras' most pressing environmental issue.
The rapid and often indiscriminate destruction of forests has been in large part responsible
for many of Honduras' problems of soil degradation, water shortages, flooding, estuary
sedimentation, and loss of biodiversity. As a result, the GOH has given its highest priority
to the halting of harmful practices and to develop policies and procedures that support the
environmentally sustainable management of forest and land resources.
2.17   The centerpiece of the GOH's forestry and agricultural sector reforms is the 1992
Law for the Modernization and Development of the Agricultural Sector ( and its
implementing regulations. This law has introduced modifications to the forestry laws that:
(a) eliminate any activity or function of the forestry public sector related to the production,
marketing, and trade of forest products; (b) reorient the role of the public sector towards
management and protection of public forests, regulation of private forests, fire protection,
and forest extension and research; (c) require management plans as a pre-requisite for all
forest utilization; and (d) provide for the establishment of protected forest areas and the
promotion of biodiversity conservation. IDA is supporting the GOH's new policies and
procedures through an SDR 43.3 million (US $60 million) Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (AGSAC), Credit No. 2540-HO, which was approved in July 1993.
2.18   Other priority environmental issues at the sectoral level, and some of the measures
in the GOH's strategy to deal with them, are:
* Soil degradation. Establish policies and alternatives to discourage the further
expansion of agriculture to unsuitable lands, provide technical assistance to limit soil
erosion, and regulate the use of chemicals and fertilizer.
*  Water shortages and flooding. Develop water pricing policies to encourage a more
efficient distribution of water resources and carry out a master plan for the
development of water resources.



8
* Water and soil contamination. Develop effective command and control mechanisms,
develop economic incentives and disincentives to control pollution, and investments in
waste treatment and disposal facilities.
* Biodiversity. Improve management of protected areas and parks.
*  Marine and coastal resources. Strict enforcement of environmental assessments for
economic activities.
2.19  In order to meet its objectives of dealing squarely with environmental sectoral
problems, the GOH has been carrying out and contemplates proceeding with a program
that will build consensus on environmental problems at a national level, improve the legal
and regulatory framework; and develop the necessary human resources to manage the
environment.
E. Assistance Strategy
2.20  IDA assistance strategy is based on the premise that sustainable economic
development requires the protection and sound management of Honduras' natural
resources. IDA is also concerned about the health effects of environmental degradation
on people and on the loss of biodiversity. The 1993 AGSAC is supporting the GOH's
new policies and procedures for the environmentally sound management of forest and land
resources. An IDF grant for US $185,000 was also extended to Honduras in October
1992 for the purpose of helping the Government to organize its environmental activities,
establish priorities within such activities, and prepare the PAAD. In connection with the
IDF grant, an IDA/GOH dialogue has taken place on environmental issues. The proposed
project is a direct result of the work done under the IDF grant and the ensuing dialogue.
Other IDA-funded projects include the Agriculture and Natural Resources Project, which
is being prepared to consolidate AGSAC initiatives concerning forestry development, land
administration, and agriculture technology generation and diffusion; and the Basic
Education Project, also now under preparation, which will support education reforms and
curriculum development, and will introduce environmental education in primary and
intermediate levels.
2.21   Although USAID and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) are the major
active donors in the sector, the UNDP, Japan, Canada, Switzerland, and the Netherlands
all have participated in sector financing. USAID's major direct efforts in the sector have
been through providing a US $10 million grant to a private sector environmental
organization, the Fundaci6n VIDA, and projects to support the sustainable management of
commercial pine forests and improved hillside farming. Aside from cofinancing AGSAC,
IDB has recently provided US $20.4 million for a project for the management of
renewable resources for the Cajon watershed. IDB now has under consideration a project
directed at the management of coastal and marine resources, provision of potable water,
and sewage treatment in the Bay Islands, an area of significant tourism potential off the
Caribbean coast. The UNDP has provided technical assistance support for the sector,



9
including the earlier financing of assistance for CONAMA and the current financing of
assistance to SEDA. Canada is providing C $16.5 million from the reprogramming of
Honduran debt, which is available for the 1993 to 1998 period for a fund to finance
environmental and sustainable development projects. Swiss funds from the Paris Club
debt reprogramming are also available for environmental projects. The Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund (PHRD) provided US $400,000 for the preparation of this
project. Meetings were held with donors during project preparation to apprise them of the
development of the proposed project and to determine their interest in project financing.
There was strong agreement on the need to increase institutional capacity in the sector,
and donors informally indicated that were such strengthening to occur, additional project
financing would likely be forthcoming.
F. Lessons of Experience
Country Specific Lessons
2.22  Although there has been some recent improvement in project implementation,
IDA/World Bank projects in Honduras have often experienced delays and problems
because of weak management and budgetary constraints. Frequent staff turnover in
project management and cumbersome administrative procedures have also hindered
project implementation. However, many of these problems have been avoided in the two
IDA operations with the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS) (Credit No. 2212-HO,
February 1991; Credit No. 2401-HO, May 1992). The success of these operations have
been influential in selecting FHIS to be the executing agency for the investment
component of the proposed project. The FIUS success is in large part due to its status as
an autonomous agency, free of government administrative regulations and salary
constraints. In order to improve project management, IDA has taken several approaches.
It has held Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) meetings to address project
issues; carried out periodic in-country disbursement, procurement, and audit workshops;
and has given a high priority to project supervision. Addressing the underlying causes of
many of the project implementation problems will require a much longer time horizon by
means of concerted actions to reform civil service and public sector management and
budgetary practices. These structural issues are being addressed by IDA in the context of
the preparation of a public sector adjustment operation. In terms of the proposed project,
several actions have been and will be taken to avoid project implementation problem.
Assurances were obtained that sufficient funds are budgeted for audits in order to avoid
auditing delays. A strong Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been incorporated into the
project design and plans are being made for an in-country project launch workshop after
Credit signing.
Sector Lessons
2.23  IDA/Bank has financed environmental projects focusing on institutional
development in Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, and Mexico, and others that are currently at
different stages of preparation. IDA/Bank staff and consultants who have worked on



10
preparing and implementing three of those projects have been on the appraisal team for the
proposed project and the project design has incorporated the lessons that they have
leamed. The principal lessons leamed from the previous IDA/Bank projects are that a
successful environmental project requires:
* strong political commitment;
*  well defined medium and long term objectives, supported by an established and open
planning process;
*  consistent legal and regulatory framework;
*  closely coordinated actions of the many institutions whose activities affect the
environment and its management,
*  clear understanding of environmental issues by key officials, as well as the population
at large; and
*  adequate information to manage environmental and natural resource programs.
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.24  The proposed project is consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), as discussed by the Board of Directors during the presentation of the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (AGSAC) No. 2450-HO on August 5, 1993, and agreed to with
the GOH in the May 1994 CPPR meeting, giving priority to institutional development in
the environmental sector and to the management of natural resources. The proposed
project is consistent with the adjustment program begun in 1990 and will complement the
AGSAC which supports fundamental institutional and policy reforms with respect to
forestry management. IDA's role in the proposed project, on the pivotal issues of
environmental policy and the development of the institutional framework in this emerging
sector, will help coordinate and rationalize assistance from bilateral and multilateral
agencies.
2.25  This project addresses some of the following important issues in establishing a
rational system of environmental management: (a) weak institutional capacity to set
national policies, strategies, and plans; (b) inadequate coordination between agencies
having environmental responsibilities; (c) conflicting laws and regulations; (d) inadequate
environmental norms and technical standards, (e) inadequately trained technical staff in
institutions with environmental responsibilities; (f) a lack of public awareness and
involvement in environmental matters; and (g) limited involvement of municipalities and
communities in environmental management matters. In addressing these issues, the
project provides an institutional framework for the Government to address its
environmental problems and for IDA and other extemal financing agencies to finance
projects in support of these efforts.



I1
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1   The proposed project has three principal sets of objectives. The first set of
objectives is to strengthen the capacity of government agencies in environrmental and
natural resource planning; policy, legal and regulatory framework development;
interagency and intersector coordination, environmental monitoring; and enforcement of
environmental laws and regulations. The proposed project will help establish the PAAD
as a permanent planning process, and through it develop the capacity of sector and other
governrment agencies to incorporate environmental variables in their natural resource and
land use plans. NGO and public participation is an essential element of the environmental
planning process, which will be amply supported by the project. The second set of
objectives is to assist SEDA and relevant sector agencies in the strengthening and
implementation of a national system of environmental impact assessment, to develop the
methodologies for the preparation and processing of environmental impact assessments
and environmental audits in high priority sectors; and to engage NGOs, communities and
the private sector in the environmental assessment review process (Annex A). The third
set of objectives is to develop the environmental management capacity of selected
municipalities in a manner that will increase the involvement of grassroots organizations
and individuals in the environmental affairs of their communities; and to finance, on a pilot
basis, environmental projects at the municipal and community levels, and by small and
micro-enterprises, through the FHIS.
B. Project Description2
3.2   The multisectoral nature of the project requires the participation of a number of
agencies for its successful implementation. SEDA is the primary implementing agency. In
that capacity it will coordinate closely with all the agencies participating in the project, and
with the FHIS in particular, which will be responsible for the implementation of the
environmental investment subcomponent with a certain degree of autonomy. SEDA will
play a leading role in the implementation of the technical assistance components,
subcomponents, and activities of the proposed project, but the direct execution of the
different parts of the operation will fall, in addition to SEDA, on SECPLAN, SRN, SSP,
COHDEFOR, the General Attorney's Office (Procuraduria General de la Republica -
PGR), FGR, the National Autonomous University of Honduras (Universidad Aut6noma de
Honduras - UNAH), and the Supreme Court of Justice (Corte Suprema de Justicia - CSJ),
with the support of qualified national and international NGOs and consultants.
3.3    All the activities related to the environmental investments will be the direct
responsibility of FHIS, as contained in operating procedures and guidelines which SEDA
2 The costs of the components, subcomponents, and activities include contingencies and taxes, unless
otherwise noted. Totals may not add up due to rounding.



12
and FHIS have agreed to, and are generally described in para. 5.4. FHIS was selected to
be the implementing agency for the environmental investments subcomponent because of
its successful record as a financial intermediary for projects at the municipal and
community level. Although FlHS has focused on economic and social infrastructure
projects, there has been a strong correlation between its poverty alleviation objectives and
the environment. Approximately 24% of the resources committed by FHIS between 1991
and 1993 fit the profile of environmental infrastructure. Furthermore, the poverty index
used by FHIS to allocate funds among the 18 departments and 291 municipalities is based
largely on infrastructure needs that coincide with environmental improvement objectives.3
3.4   To accomplish the stated objectives, the project has been organized into four
components: environmental planning and legislation (US $3.5 million); environmental
quality assessment (US $2.2 million); local government environmental management (US
$5.3 million); and administration and project coordination (US $1.4 million). At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOH that subsidiary agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, will be signed between SHCP and SEDA, as implementing agency,
and FHIS, no later than the dates indicated in the implementation schedule (Annex E)
(para. 7.2(a)).
(1) Environmental Planning and Legislation Component (US $3.5 million)
3.5   This component is aimed at providing key agencies with technical assistance in
environmental planning, policy, legislation, and training. It has been organized into four
subcomponents. The Environmental and Land Use Planning Subcomponent provides
support for the development and establishment of a permanent environmental planning
process that will incorporate environmental variables into other sectoral planning
initiatives, and in the general development and land use planning efforts of the GOH.
Because adequate and reliable information is essential to the planning process, the
National Environmental Information System Subcomponent was included in this
component to support the design, establishment and operation of the National
Environmental Information System (Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental -
SINIA). The SINIA, rather than to generate information, will serve as a network for the
exchange of information among the different users and information generation centers that
exist in Honduras, which will receive training and equipment under the proposed project.
The Legal and Regulatory Framework Subcomponent will support the harmonization of
the current legislation with regard to environmental management, the preparation of norms
and technical standards, the strengthening of environmental law enforcement capacity,
legal training, and publication of documents. Finally, the Training and Public Awareness
Subcomponent will support the coordination of all training and public awareness activities
that are included in the different components and subcomponents of the proposed project.
3 The distnbution is based on an index which takes into account three factors with different relative weights:
(a) access to potable water (50%); (b) access to clean water and latrines (20%); and (c) child malnutrition
rates (30%).



13
a. Environmental and Land Use Planning Subcomponent (US $1.5 million)
3.6   This subcomponent will support the development of three environment-related
planning initiatives (environmental planning per se, natural resource planning, and land use
planning) and the preparation of three studies. The activities under this subcomponent will
engage the key government actors in environmental management, in addition to NGOs,
communities and the private sector, and will strengthen the institutional framework
established by the LGA. To complete the tasks included in this subcomponent, the
proposed project will finance four incremental staff positions and operation expenses on a
declining basis; 235 months of local consultants, seven months of international
consultants; 11 studies; six workshops and seminars; publications; one vehicle; and
computers and office equipment ( Annex F). At negotiations, the following assurances
were obtained from the GOH: (a) that an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA,
SECPLAN and SRN regarding their respective roles in land use planning in general, and,
specifically, regarding those activities to be undertaken under the proposed project, will be
signed no later than the dates indicated in the implementation schedule (Annex E) (para.
7.2(a)); and (b) that the studies will be completed by the dates indicated in the
implementation schedule (Annex E) and that the relevant results of these studies will be
incorporated in the environmental planning initiatives as described above (para. 7.2(b)).
3.7   Environmental Planning (US $632,000). The main focus of this activity will be the
consolidation of the PAAD into a permanent environmental planning process. SEDA's
General Directorate of Environmental Policy and Planning (Direcci6n General de Politicas
y Planificaci6n Ambiental - DPPA), with the active participation of the National
Consultative Council of the Environment (Consejo Consultivo Nacional del Ambiente -
COCONA) and the Technical Advisory Committee (Comite Tecnico Asesor - CTA), as
established in the LGA, and with broad NGO and public participation, will review,
evaluate, and update, PAAD and will produce a Environmental Policy Paper and a
National Environmental Profile every two years. As part of the environmental planning
process, efforts will be made to quantify in economic and social terms the costs and
benefits of the environmental policies and actions implemented by the GOH. DPPA will
also produce SEDA's annual operating plans and, in coordination with the sectoral
planning units of other agencies with responsibility for environmental management, it will
prepare annual environmental investment plans, both consistent with PAAD. In order to
coordinate all the actions required to successfully implement the PAAD, SEDA will also
design, develop and implement a monitoring and evaluation system.
3.8   Natural Resource Planning (US $86.000. The proposed project will provide
support to the Agriculture Sector Planning Unit (Unidad de Planificaci6n Sectorial
Agricola - UPSA) located in the SRN. The focus of the support will be the harmonization
of current natural resource policies with the environmental mission and objectives of the
current administration and the PAAD. Among the products of this process will be an
environmentally consistent sectoral policy document that will help transform current non-
sustainable production practices. This process will also provide SRN the basic framework



14
with which to participate actively in the environmental planning initiatives associated with
the PAAD.
3.9   Land Use Planning (US $499.000). A land use plan consistent with the framework
laid out by the PAAD and the official development strategies and policies, is essential to
the development of the environmental management capacity of public agencies in
Honduras, in particular of SEDA, SRN and SECPLAN. This task has been given renewed
importance in the LGA, which makes land use planning an important element of the
national environmental management strategy. In order to seek a closer integration with
the development and public investment planning activities, the proposed project will assist
SECPLAN in the establishment of the Land Use Planning Unit (Unidad de Ordenamiento
Territorial - UOT). The work will begin with the updating of existing environmental
baseline maps, where available, and the preparation of new maps where not. This activity
will take into account and will incorporate the work being done by other government
agencies with the support of different bilateral donors. From these maps, the UOT will
prepare and submit to SEDA, SRN, and other key agencies a land use strategy proposal.
These activities, particularly those related to the generation of geographically referenced
environmental information, will be integrated to SINIA (paras. 3.11-3.15).
3 .10 Studies (US $237.000). Three studies will be conducted in areas of immediate
relevance to the planning and policy initiatives being undertaken by SEDA and sectoral
agencies, in the following areas: economic incentives for environmental management;
biodiversity conservation; and solid waste management. The proposed project will also
provide support for additional studies that may be agreed between the IDA and the GOH
during project implementation in the areas of environmental and natural resource
management.
b. National Environmental Information System Subcomponent (US $0.9 million)
3.11  The proposed project, under this subcomponent, will support the design,
development, and administration of the SINIA. The SINIA is an essential tool for
environmental planning, management, monitoring and enforcement. It will incorporate,
and make available to interested parties, information generated by SEDA, the sector
agencies and the municipalities. Additionally a geographic information system (GIS) and a
documentation center will be established. To complete the tasks included in this
subcomponent, the proposed project will finance three incremental staff positions and
operation expenses on a declining basis, two studies; two scholarships; two workshop; and
computer and office equipment (see Annex F). At negotiations assurances were obtained
from the GOH that adequate space will be provided to house the staff, consultants and
equipment needed to implement this subcomponent (para. 7.2(h)).
3.12  System Design. Development and Administration (US $483.000). The first stage
in the establishment of the SINIA, the diagnostics, is being conducted by SEDA, prior to
the system design and the start of project implementation. The proposed project will
support the design of the computerized information network and its subsequent



15
development and administration. The development phase will include the establishment of
the central network administration systems and the training of the personnel of the
government agencies that will participate in the SINIA by generating information and
using the information available through the network.
3.13  SINIA Equipment (US $305.000). After the SINIA has been established,
equipment and software will be provided to the government agencies that will participate
in the SINIA as described above.4 These agencies will be connected to the central
network administration, housed at SEDA, via modem.
3.14  Geographic Information System (US $138,000). To complement the
computerized network, the project will support the establishment of a GIS. The GIS will
give SEDA the capacity to analyze geographically referenced environmental information
being produced and made available through the SINIA by the participating government
agencies. It will also provide SEDA with the monitoring and evaluation tools needed to
implement the National System of Environmental Impact Assessment (SINEIA) (para.
3.23).
3.15  Documentation Center (US $23,000). A documentation center, focused on non
electronically stored information (printed, photographic, video material) will be established
in SEDA. It will provide the above-mentioned materials and information to all the
agencies participating in the SINIA and, where appropriate, to all NGOs, private, public,
and academic organizations interested in environmental management matters.
c. Legal and Regulatory Framework Subcomponent (US $0.8 million)
3.16  The legal and regulatory framework subcomponent will be implemented through
the following activities: (a) the compilation of existing legislation and regulations dealing
with environmental management or affecting the environment; (b) the harmonization of
the laws and regulations with respect to environmental matters; (c) the development of
environmental norms and technical standards; (d) the strengthening of the legal
enforcement capability of the PGR and the FGR; and (e) the training of and technical
assistance on environmental laws and regulations to judges, attorneys, and legal advisors
to institutions involved in environmental management. To complete the tasks included in
this subcomponent, the proposed project will finance 6 incremental staff positions and
operation expenses on a declining basis; 75 months of local consultants; seven months of
international consultants; 8 workshops and one course on environmental legislation;
publications; 2 vehicles; and computers and office equipment (Annex F). At negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the GOH that the following agreements, satisfactory to
IDA, will be signed no later than the dates indicated in the implementation schedule
(Annex E): (a) between SEDA, PGR, and FGR on coordination for the enforcement of
environmental laws; and (b) between SEDA and UNAH's Juridical Research Institute
(Instituto de Investigaciones Juridicas - IIJ) on the maintenance of the computerized
4  The following government agencies will be provided computer equipment and software financed by
the project: SECPLAN, SRN, SSP, COHDEFOR, PA/PGR, FA/FGR, UNAH, and CSJ.



16
information system, on the procedures and principles ruling the exchange of environmental
information, and/or on the use of the equipment, financed by the project (para. 7.2(a)). A
signed agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between the SEDA and the Judicial School of the
Supreme Court (Escuela Judicial de la Corte Suprema de Justicia - EJ) will be a condition
of disbursement for the implementation of the environmental legislation training
program(para. 7.3(a))
3. 17 Harmonization of Laws and Regulations (US $171.000). A national
multidisciplinary team, under the coordination of the DPPA, will analyze the laws and
regulations affecting the protection and management of the environment for the purpose
of identifying and making recommendations to resolve inconsistencies. This team will
focus on the legislation dealing with water, soil and forests. Workshops will be conducted
to permit and encourage broad participation by government agencies involved in
environmental management, in addition to NGOs, communities and the private sector. A
legal information management center will be designed and established to aid in this activity
at the IIJ All the laws affecting the environment will be collected and entered into a
computerized information system which will be periodically updated. Computers and
related equipment will be purchased so that relevant official entities may access the
system. This center will be part of the SINIA.
3.18 Norms and Technical Standards (US $64.000). DPPA will lead this effort and will
start by designing the methodology for the development and implementation of
environmental norms and technical standards. In order to achieve the maximum level of
participation and to ensure the participatory nature of the process, this process will include
all the consultative levels established in the LGA, namely the COCONA, and
representatives of a broad range of institutions of the public and the private sectors.
3.19  Legal Enforcement (US $362.000). The responsibility for the enforcement of
environmental laws and regulations falls ultimately on the PGR, through the PA/PGR,
created by the LGA, and the FGR. The FGR, also known as the Public Ministry
(Ministerio Publico), was created by law on December 20, 1993, for the purpose of
representing the legal interest of the people of Honduras. As part of its organizational
structure the FGR has a unit, the Fiscalia del Ambiente (FA/FGR), with the a mandate of
filing environmental suits on behalf of the people of Honduras. The relationship between
the environmental units of both the PGR and the FGR is still in a formative state. Some
experimentation will be required in order to establish a sound and realistic conceptual
framework that will permit the PGR and FGR to operate effectively and efficiently in the
enforcement of environmental laws and regulations. The process of defining their
respective roles has begun with the drafting of an agreement between SEDA, PGR, and
FGR. The support that will be provided to the environmental units of the PGR and the
FGR will be in the form of additional staff, the purchase of equipment, and training in legal
enforcement.
3.20  Legal Training and Technical Assistance (US $196.000). Training will be
provided to approximately 400 judges, attorneys, and legal advisors to institutions



17
involved in environmental management to instruct them in the substance of the
environmental laws and their enforcement. This activity will be implemented with the
cooperation of the EJ. An international consultant will assist in the preparation of course
materials and will train two local trainers.
d. Training and Public Awareness Subcomponent (US $0.3 million)
3.21  This subcomponent will assist DPPA in its efforts to support and coordinate
environmental training, public information, and education programs. DPPA will work
closely with the sector agencies and municipalities in identifying training needs. It will
conduct public information programs to acquaint the general public, as well as targeted
special groups and organizations, about environmental issues and SEDA and agency
environmental activities. To complete the tasks included in this subcomponent, the
proposed project will finance 60 months of local consultants, 9 scholarships; 8 workshops
and one course; numerous public awareness activities; and computers and office
equipment (Annex F).
(2) Environmental Quality Assessment Component (US $2.2 million)
3.22  The principal objective of the Environmental Quality Assessment Component is to
support the establishment of a system of effective environmental impact assessments and
environmental audits that will assure that all public and private sector projects are
environmentally sound and continue to be so throughout their operation. This component
will provide support for the strengthening of the National System of Environmental
Impact Assessment (Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental - SINEIA),
and for pilot projects for environmental impact assessment and environmental auditing.
SEDA's General Directorate of Environmental Assessment and Control (Direcci6n
General de Evaluaci6n y Control Ambiental - DECA) will be the agency primarily
responsible for the implementation of the component, but the work will require the active
participation of key public sector agencies and the assistance of local and international
consultants. The activities under this component will stress hands-on training to build the
skills of the staff of SEDA and sector agencies. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the GOH that agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA and each of the
agencies participating in the establishment and operation of the SINEIA and other
components financed by the proposed project, will be signed no later than the dates
indicated in the implementation schedule (Annex E) (para. 7.2(a)).
a. National System of Environmental Impact Assessment Subcomponent (US $1.4
million)
3.23  DECA has responsibility for the design, establishment, and operation of the
SINEIA. This subcomponent will provide DECA with the necessary assistance to enable
it to carry out its duties. Environmental sector units will be established or strengthened in
six key sector agencies. Three of these agencies are part of the SRN: the General
Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (Direcci6n general de Minas e Hidrocarburos -



18
DMH), the General Directorate of Fisheries (Direcci6n General de Pesca - DIGEPESCA),
and the General Directorate of Water Resources (Direcci6n General de Recursos Hidricos
DRH). A fourth agency is autonomous and decentralized:COHDEFOR. The remaining
two agencies are part of the SSP: the General Directorate of Environmental Services
(Direcci6n General de Atencion al Medio - DGAM) and the Center for the Study and
Control of Contaminants (Centro de Estudios y Control de Contaminantes - CESCCO).
Each of the agencies will receive equipment, long-term technical assistance and training in
order to carry out their environmental responsibilities. Other units, many of them at the
municipal level, will receive training and technical assistance under other subcomponents
of the proposed project. Laboratory and measurement equipment will be financed for
CESCCO, which will be the agency responsible for providing the baseline data required
for the management of pollution based environmental problems. To complete the tasks
included in this subcomponent, the project will finance operation expenses on a declining
basis; 150 months of local consultants; 36 months of international consultants; 8
workshops and one national-level Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) congress; 7
vehicles; 2 boats; computers, laboratory and office equipment (Annex F). At negotiations,
the following assurances were obtained from the GOH: (a) that adequate space will be
provided to house the staff, consultants and equipment needed to implement this
subcomponent (para. 7.2(h)); and (b) that agreements, satisfactory to IDA, will be signed
wvith all the participating agencies no later than the dates indicated in the implementation
schedule (Annex E)(para. 7.2(a)).
b. Pilot Projects for Environmental Impact Assessment and Auditing
Subcomponent (US $0.8 million)
3.24  Pilot environmental impact assessments and environmental audits will be
conducted in four sectors: forestry, agro-industry, mining and energy. In addition to the
technical aspects of the impact assessments and the audits, the pilot activities will include
the development the methodology for rapid environmental assessments and for public
participation. The pilot activities will be conducted by local and internationally recruited
consultants, with the participation of personnel from DECA and relevant sector agencies.
The entire process will be designed to provide the participants with hands on experience
on impact assessments and audits of the key sectors and related activities. Training
manuals, with detailed description of methods and procedures, will be prepared and
seminars conducted based on what was learned in undertaking the pilot activities. To
complete the tasks included in this subcomponent, the proposed project will finance four
major studies in the selected sectors which will be prepared using the methodology
described above (see Annex F).
(3) Local Government Environmental Management Component (US $5.3 million)
3.25  This component will strengthen the capacity of selected municipalities to undertake
relevant environmental management activities by providing technical assistance for
municipal environmental management and financing environmental investments at the
municipal and community level. The technical assistance subcomponent will develop the



19
methodology for later application in other municipalities. The environmental investment
subcomponent will also be considered a pilot for the development of the methodology
needed by the FHIS to support environmental subprojects at the municipal and community
level. The combined effect of these subcomponents will give municipalities the capacity to
identify their environmental needs and the FHIS the operational tools to meet those needs.
a. Technical Assistance for Municipal Environmental Management Subcomponent
(US $1.1 million)
3.26  This subcomponent will strengthen the capacity of 20 municipalities, in four
different regions of the country (see Table I on page 20, and the attached Map IBRD
26390), to manage their natural resources and to address their environmental problems. It
will also increase public participation in the solution of the environmental problems of the
community by: (a) assisting in preparation of local environmental diagnostics and action
plans, and municipal land use plans; (b) providing technical assistance to mayors,
municipal corporation members and employees and community leaders through extension
work, (c) promoting opportunities offered by other project activities (e.g., environmental
investment projects); (d) providing municipalities with equipment, tools and materials
related to environmental management and adequate to the technical capability of municipal
employees (e.g., binoculars, photographic cameras, radio-communication, measuring
instruments, water quality test kits, manuals, maps); (e) implementing six workshops in
each participating municipality to discuss local environmental problems and explore
alternatives to solve them, and (f) implementing four environmental education projects for
women (one in each region). The proposed project will finance the costs of the
workshops, equipment, technical assistance, and program administration. To complete the
tasks included in this subcomponent, in addition to the workshops and training projects
mentioned above, the proposed project will finance 216 months of local consultants and
miscellaneous field equipment (Annex F). At negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the GOH that agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA and the municipalities that
will participate in the pilot program of municipal technical assistance, will be signed no
later than the dates indicated in the implementation schedule (Annex E) (para. 7.2(a)).
b. Environmental Investments Subcomponent (US $4.2 million)
3.27  This subcomponent will provide technical assistance and financial support to the
FHIS for the design and implementation of pilot municipal and community level
environmental investment subprojects in the selected municipalities (see Table 1, page 20).
As indicated in para. 5.4 and Annex G, FHIS' operations will be closely coordinated with
SEDA. The activities under this subcomponent include: (a) the direct support for pre-
investment studies and environmental investments; (b) a line of credit for environmental
investments by micro-enterprises; (c) the establishment of the environmental unit at FHIS,
and (d) the evaluation of the environmental investments funded under this component.
One of the objectives of this subcomponent is to assist the FlIS in developing the
capacity and the instruments for the management of a larger municipal and community
level environmental investment portfolio at the national level. To complete the tasks



20
included in this subcomponent, the proposed project will finance 53 months of local
consultants, 28 pre-investment studies, eight scholarships for short courses; two seminars,
one vehicle; computers and office equipment (Annex F). A signed agreement, satisfactory
to IDA, between the GOH and FHIS regarding the implementation arrangements and
specifying, inter alia, the environmental assessment criteria that will be used to select and
evaluate the subprojects and the role of SEDA in project approval and monitoring, will be
a condition of disbursement for the activities under the Environmental Investments
Subcomponent (para. 7.3(b)).
Table 1: Participating Municipalities in the Local Government Environmental
Management Component
WATERSHED             REGION             MUNICIPALITIES
Patuca                Catacamas          Catacamas
Juticalpa
Dulce Nombre de Culin
Guaimaca
Aguan                Olanchito           Olanchito
Arenal
Tocoa
Saba
Chamelecon and Ulua    Santa Rosa de Copan  Santa Rosa de Copan
Dulce Nombre
Cucuyagua
San Juan de Op6a
Veracruz
Dolores
Concepci6n
Santa Barbara      Santa BArbara
Chinda
San Jose Colinas
Trinidad
._____________________   . _____________ .llama
3.28   Municipal and Community Environmental Investments (US $3.0 million). The
subproject categories of environmental investments, which have been identified jointly by
SEDA and FHIS and that will supported by FHIS, are listed in Table 2 (page 22). The
funds will be distributed among the 20 municipalities in four different regions as defined in
Table I (page 20). Given that the poverty index used for the economic infrastructure
subprojects that is already operating at FHIS is a proxy for environmental infrastructure
deficiency, the same index will be used for the distribution of funds for the environmental
subprojects in the selected municipalities. The rules for the allocation of the funds among
regions, municipalities and subprojects are as follows: (i) any region may receive no more
than 35% of the total available funds for environmental investments under this activity; (ii)
any municipality may receive no more than 40% of the funds available to its region; and
(iii) no single subproject may represent more than 45% of the funds available for the given



21
municipality. Cost-sharing by the municipalities will be encouraged to increase the
subproject size. Other than these measures to assure diversification of the portfolio and
the spatial distribution of subprojects, the environmental subprojects will be managed in
the same manner as any other infrastructure subprojects in FHIS. In addition to the
environmental investment subprojects the proposed project will fund, also through FI-HS,
the preparation of up to 25 pre-investment studies for small-scale environmental
infrastructure subprojects. The relevant pre-investments studies, satisfactory to IDA, will
be a condition of disbursement for municipal and community environmental investment
subproject categories (para. 7.3(c)).
3.29   Small and Micro-Enterprises Line of Credit for Environmental Investments (US
$468.000). In the first stage of the development of a line of credit for environmental
investments by small and micro-enterprises, the proposed project will finance, through the
FFHS, three pre-investment studies in the following areas: (a) ecotourism; (b) solid waste
collection and recycling; and (c) cottage industry pollution abatement. These studies will
be technical, financial, and social feasibility studies conducted to determine the structure of
future credits to a given sector or type of subproject. The studies will specify the technical,
financial, and institutional norms to follow in subproject design as well as the possible
risks of financing such ventures. They will also include the preparation of design and
technical specifications that can be used for FHIS' future work. Upon completion of the
pre-investment studies, FHIS will establish a line of credit for small and micro-enterprises
to finance environmental ventures in the areas listed above, through the Informal Sector
Support Program (Programa de Apoyo al Sector Informal - PASI). PASI was established
in 1990 to provide credit to small and micro-enterprises through NGOs. The subprojects
financed under this activity will adhere to the established operating procedures and
eligibility criteria as described in more detail in Annex G. Loans to the eligible
intermediary NGOs will be made at market interest rates. However, given that the
objective of this activity is to facilitate the transition of small and micro-enterprises to
more environmentally benign technologies and practices, proposals at below-market rates
may be considered, but will have to be carefully justified and approved by IDA. Three
NGOs will be selected to act as financial intermediaries from a list and institutional profiles
of five submitted by FHIS prior to negotiations (para. 7.1). Access to this line of credit
will not be restricted to subprojects in the selected municipalities (Table 1, page 20). The
relevant pre-investments studies, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of disbursement
for the small and micro-enterprise line of credit (para. 7.3(d)).
3.30   Establishment of the Environmental Unit at FHIS (US $593.000). The FHIS
environmental unit will be established to carry out FL-S' responsibilities in the
development of its environmental investment portfolio, to incorporate environmental
considerations into FH-S operations in general, and to prepare the technical specifications
of the environmental investment subprojects that will be financed by FHIS. Additional
staff will be hired, consultants engaged, training undertaken, material and equipment
purchased, and workshops held for FHIS contractors.



22
3.31   Evaluation of the Environmental Investments (US $153.000). Given the pilot
nature of the environmental investments being implemented through FHIS and PASI, the
proposed project will finance the evaluation of all such investments and the instruments
used to carry them out (i.e., FHIS and PASI). The results of this evaluation will be useful
as the FHIS expands its role in support of the environmental needs of municipalities and
communities.
Table 2: Proposed Environmental Subproject Categories for FHIS
SUBPROJECT TYPE            SUBPROJECT CATEGORY
Urban and community parks   .  Construction and rehabilitation of urban and community parks,
Solid and liquid waste     *  Urban and small industry solid waste collection, processing,
management                     disposal, and recycling
l  Septic tanks and oxidation ponds
Protection of water sources    .  Small infrastructure for the protection and rehabilitation of
water wells, watersheds, and other natural water sources
Soil protection and erosion  *  Planting and maintenance of wind breaks
control                    *  Construction of erosion prevention drainage ditches and other
minor infrastructure
Biodiversity conservation  .  Community and family operated ecotourism facilities in and
around protected areas
l  Posting boundary of demarcated protected areas
*  Small infrastructure for the sustainable management and
rehabilitation of community and traditional fishing operations
Energy generation and      .  Alternative energy generation initiatives (e.g., wind, solar)
conservation               .  Construction high efficiency wood-burning of stoves and ovens
(4) Administration and Project Coordination Component (US $1.4 million)
3.32   The objective of the component is to strengthen SEDA's administrative capacity
and its management of the project. The support to SEDA's administrative unit is aimed at
those aspects related to its day-to-day operation. It is aimed at complementing the
ongoing efforts to define and establish SEDA's operating procedures and management
methodology. Given the complexity of the project, it is essential that SEDA have a
project-support coordination unit with the exclusive responsibility to ensure the successful
implementation of the proposed project. The administrative unit and the PCU will work
closely throughout the implementation of the project in order to ensure the that SEDA is
administratively, as well as technically, capable of undertaking and expanded
environmental mandate at the conclusion of the proposed project.
a. Technical Assistance to SEDA's Administrative Unit Subcomponent (US $0.1
million)
3.33   In order to strengthen SEDA's administrative capacity, support will be provided
for the design and installation of a sound budgeting and accounting system. This support
will be directed to the administrative unit of SEDA and is expected to increase its capacity



23
to support the administrative requirements of managing the different systems under the
scope of responsibility of SEDA (e.g., SINEIA, S[NIA). To complete the tasks included
in this subcomponent, the proposed project will finance one incremental staff position on a
declining basis; four months of local consultants, one study; and office equipment Annex
F).
b. Project Coordination and Management Subcomponent (US $1.3 million)
3.34  The nature of the project and SEDA's limited experience in project management
make it important to have a unit dedicated exclusively to assist in project management and
all tasks related to project implementation, including procurement and audits. To
complete the tasks included in this subcomponent, the proposed project will finance four
full-time technical consultants and two full-time support personnel for the PCU, in
addition to 20 months of local consultants to assist in project implementation as needed;
one vehicle; computers and office equipment; and operating costs. Additionally, the PCU
will be responsible for contracting the audits and for retaining the services of a
procurement agency (Annex F).
3.35  Project Coordination Unit (US $902,00O). SEDA, through the PCU, will be
responsible for the overall management of the proposed project. The administrative and
technical responsibilities of the PCU are discussed in greater detail in the Project
Operations Manual (Manual de Operaciones para la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto Desarrollo
Ambiental de Honduras) which can be found in the project files (Annex L). In general
terms, the PCU will have the following responsibilities:
*  to manage the project finances, involving the appropriate agencies on matters of
disbursement, procurement of goods and services, payments for goods and services
provided, and audits;
*  to track and report to the appropriate agencies of the GOH and IDA, all expenses
incurred during project implementation;
*  to participate actively, with the appropriate agencies, in the procurement process;
*  to prepare, in consultation with all the agencies and organizations participating in the
implementation of the proposed project, the annual operating plan and budget;
*  to track the progress in project implementation using the agreed upon performance
and impact indicators Annex I);
*  to review the terms of reference of all contracts, and technical specifications of all
equipment to ensure consistency with project objectives and established
implementation targets;



24
* to prepare all the necessary documentation necessary for, and to assist with the
conduction of, the periodic supervision missions of IDA; and
* to monitor and follow-up on all the FHIS implemented activities, including all
technical and administrative matters.
3.36  Technical and Financial Audits (US $227,000 . The PCU will be responsible for
retaining the services of an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, to conduct technical
and financial audits of the project on an annual basis. The investment projects being
implemented by FHIS will be audited following the arrangements and procedures currently
established under the FHIS II project (Credit No. 2401-HO). A detailed discussion of the
auditing requirement for this subcomponent can be found on page 34, under the section on
Accounts and Audits.
3.37  Procurement Agency (US $216,000). The project requires the purchase of
equipment and the contracting of consultants in the early stages of project implementation.
In order to successfully meet the established timetable, the services of a procurement
agency will be retained for the first three years to assist in the procurement of goods and
services.
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
4.1   The total project cost is estimated at US $12.5 million, including taxes and
contingencies. The foreign exchange costs amount to US $1.9 million, approximately
15% of the total project cost. Given the nature of the proposed project, most of the
project cost (80%, excluding taxes) is for local expenditures, which consist of local
salaries and consultants, office furniture and supplies, and environmental investments. The
larger expenditure categories are the environmental investments with US $3.1 million
(25% of total project cost), consultants and technical assistance with US $2.4 million
(19%), and studies with US $1.7 million (14%). The project costs by component and by
expenditure category are shown in Table 3 (page 25) and Table 5 (page 27), respectively.
Additional cost information is provided in Annex F.
4.2   Contingency Allowance. Physical contingencies amount to 5% for all expenditure
categories except for the environmental investment subprojects/subloans. Any increase in
the cost of the investment subprojects/subloans will result in a reduction in the total
number of subprojects/subloans financed. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based
on a projected international yearly inflation rate of 2.2% from 1995 to 2001.
4.3   Duties and Taxes. Locally procured goods are subject to a value-added tax (VAT)
of 7%. Works and consultant services are subject to a 5% tax. Imported goods such as
computers, technical equipment, vehicles, and office technology equipment are subject to



25
a combined custom taxes and VAT of 23%. The estimated cost of the proposed project
includes approximately US $620,000 in local duties and taxes.
Table 3: Estimated Project Costs a/
%        % Total
(USS '000)              Foreign       Base
Local    Foreign       Tota     Exchange       Costs
A. Environmental Planning and Legislation
1. Environmental and Land Ust Planning
Environmental Planning                                                           539           24       563             4           5
Natural Resources Planning                                                        73            6        79             7           1
Land Use Planning                                                                384           67       450            15           4
Studies                                                                          217            0       217              -          2
SubtotalEnvironmentalandLandUsePlannrng                                           1,213           96     1,309             7         11
2. Nationml Environmental Inforiation System
System Design, Development and Admuinsttion                                      392           37       429             9           4
SINIA Equipment                                                                   19          256       275            93           2
Geograupuc Information System                                                     34           90       124            73           1
Documentation Center                                                               5           16        21            75
Subtotal National Environmental Information System                                  451          398       849            47           7
3. Legal and Regtuatory Frsmework
Harmomzation ofLaws and Regulations                                              131           28       158            18           1
Norms and Technical Standards                                                     37           22        59            37           1
Legal Enforcement                                                                288           34       322            11           3
Legal TrauungandTechrucal Assistance                                             149           30       179            17           2
Subtotal Legal and ReguLstory Framework                                             604          114       718            16           6
4 Trainmg and Public Awareness                                                      280           13       293             5           3
Subtotal Environmental Planning and Lgislation                                       2,547          622     3,169            20         28
R Environmental Qumlity Assessment
1. Natiorml System of Environmental Impact Assessment
Suppon for DECA                                                                   56           88       144            61           1
Support for DM1                                                                     2          22        23            93
Support for DIGEPESCA                                                              2           31        33            93
Support for DRH                                                                     2          22        23            93
Support for COHDEFOR                                                                2          22        23            93
Support for DGAM                                                                    2          22        23            93           -
Support for CESCCO                                                                45          178       223            80           2
Trainng and Technical Assistance                                                 565          252       817            31           7
Subtotal NationalSystem of Environmental Impact Aaessment                           675          637      1,312           49          11
2 Pilot Projects for Envucnmental Impact
Assessment and Audit                                                               408          272       680            40           6
SubtotalEnvironmentalQu ltyAssessment                                                 1,083         909      1,992           46          17
C. Local Government Environmental Management
I Technical Assistance fcr Municipal
Environental Management                                                           906           95      1.001            9           9
2. Environmental Investments
Muncipal and Community Environmental Investments                                2,920            0     2,920             -         25
Mtcro-enterpnse Lmne of Credit for Environmental
Investments                                                                     460             0      460              -          4
Establishment ofthe Environmental Unit at FIES                                   520            30      550              5          5
EvaluaticmoftheEnvircnmentallnvestments                                           140            0       140             -I
Subtotal Environmental Invesatents                                                4,040           30      4,070             1         35
Subtotal Local Government Environmental Management                                   4,946          125     5,071             2         44
D. Adminstration and Project Coordination
I SEDAsAdministrativeUnit                                                            58            1        59             1           1
2 Project Cordination and Management                                               1,156          43      1,199            4          10
Subtotal Administration and Project Coordination                                      1,214          43      1,258            3          11
Total BASELINE COSTS bl                                                               9,790        1,699    11,489            15        100
Physical Contingencies                                                              337           85       422            20           4
Price Conungencies                                                                  489           79       568            14           5
Tota PROJECT COSTS                                                                   10,616        1.863    12,480            15        109
a/ Totals may not add due to rounding
b/ Includes local taxes amounting to US S0.6 million



26
B. Financing Plan
4.4   The proposed IDA credit of SDR 7.4 million (US $10.8 million equivalent) will
finance 86% of the total project cost over the projected six-year implementation period. It
will cover 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures and 89% of the estimated total local
costs. Local costs financing is justified because of the fact that 80% of the project is for
local expenditures (excluding duties and taxes) and because of the severe financial
constraints of the GOH. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOH that
US $1.7 million, or 14% of the total project cost, including taxes and duties, will be made
available as counterpart financing (para. 7.2(c)). The complete financing plan is shown in
Table 4 (page 26), Table 5 (page 27) and Table 6 (page 27). The proposed credit will be
made under standard IDA terms, with 40 year maturity and 10 years of grace.
Table 4: Financing Plan a!
(135$ 000)
GOII            IDA              Total
Amount    %     Amount    %     Amount    %
1. Foreign               0       -     1,863    100    1,863     15
11. Local (Excl. Taxes)  1,081  11     8,915     89    9,996     80
III. Taxes             620      100       -       -     620       5
Total Project           1,701     14   10,778      86   12,480     100
a,' Includes price and physical contingencies. lTotals may not add due to rounding.
C. Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project
4.5    Some expenditures introduced by the proposed project will become part of the
GOH's ongoing recurrent costs after project completion in 2001. Such recurrent
expenditures are: (a) salaries for staff who will be hired to perform new tasks or to
reinforce already existing teams; (b) office materials, manuals and brochures; and (c)
operating expenditures for newly created units and tasks. Incremental recurrent
expenditures will be financed by IDA on a declining basis. The credit will finance 100% of
recurrent expenditures in 1995 and 1996, 60% in 1997 and 1998; 20% in 1999 and 2000;
and 0% in 2001. Yearly totals and financing method for incremental recurrent
expenditures are shown in Table 6 below.
D. SEDA's Budget and Project Sustainability
4.6    SEDA was created in 1993 with the LGA. That year it operated with the budget
of CONAMA, the institution it replaced. The 1994 budget approved by the Congress of
Honduras was of US $0.30 million, later supplemented with an additional US $0.05
million (a total of Lps. 2.3 million). For 1995, Congress approved Lps. 2.8 million, an
increase from the previous year, but because of devaluation the dollar-equivalent amount



27
is approximately US $300,000. These budget figures are exclusive of other contributions
to SEDA in the form of grants and loans from bilateral and multilateral agencies. The
projected budget requirement at the end of the proposed project in 2001, is US $392,000,
including all the incremental activities originating from the proposed project. The
projected increase in SEDA's budget, which ranges between 0% and 14% per year in the
period 1995 - 2001, as indicated in the Table 7 below, has been agreed by the GOH in the
letter of commitment of counterpart funds from Ministry of Finance ( Secretaria de
Hacienda y Credito Publico -SHCP) (Annex H).
Table 5: Financing Plan by Expenditure Category a/
(US$ oo)
GOH                       IDA                       Total
Amomt         %          Amount          %         At_,t           %
1. Imwastit=e  Cob
A. Pr9ect Coorduatn Umt Salaxin                                       40           5           763          95            803          6
L. C.   ta_o .  d T.ehcal A dts nn
Locl Co.ltants                                                      9S          5          1,867         95           1,965        16
I,unatmotal Conalwtntb                                               0          0            431        100            431          4
Soktotl C.nsdtaa and Tockal Assistance                               98           4          2,298         96          2,396         19
C. sludim                              S5                                          5          1,622         95          1,708         14
D. Audi1irt and Procurmit ARUncy                                      22          5            420          95            442          4
E. Smmu, Worbhop and Sdwlatupl                                        44           5           U43          95           S87           7
F. Conp    and Offlioe quimnt                                         36          7            481          93            517          4
G Laboratcy and Feild Equipnant                                       28           7            370         93            398          3
H Vuiid.                                                              20           7            272         93            293          2
1, Offlice FwtiLre                                                    38         100              0          0             38          0
J Prfotnt Mtnal                                                       167        100              0          0            167          1
K. r7115 Ia*wosloo
SuyrcOjeci                                                         136          5          2,590         95           2,726        22
Suldoun                                                              0          0            404        100            404          3
Subtotal FHnS Iw-s.ub                                                 136          4          2,994         96          3.131         25
L. Swvitand Prosmon                                                  129         100              0          0            129          1
M Envrorsntm    l S auuuwg of invatmat Subprqa                         15          5            282         93            296          2
Total layaotm    Coata                                                 860          8          10,345        92          11,205         90
11. Rocwoot Coat
A. IrtmunntalSalties                                                  324         53            292         47            616          5
B. Opeabng Cosb                                                      223         62             135         38            358          3
C. Trwvd and Per dtarn                                                  3         32              6         68              9          0
D AdnimstrabonofInvament SubpiertFHIS                                292         100              0          0            292          2
Tat) Racrre. Cuas                                                       841         66            433         34           1,275         10
Total                                                                  1,701         14          10,778        86          12,480        100
at Indud prioe and phyul cortutgnoam Totals may not t d due touroundrn
Table 6: Financing Plan for Incremental Recurrent Costs a!
(usS VW0)
1995b/       1996        1997        199t        199        20w0      2001Vb        Tor
IDA                                                  59         131         90          91          31          32         -            433
tOH                                                  93         192        108          79         144         146          79          842
IcrromwoulRwromtEapodluse                           152        323         198         170         175         177          79        1,275
aI lmd.s pice nd physcmal cartwrm, and taxa. Totals mosy not add up due torounding.
V' Coven ax montrt of opwacias



28
Table 7: Minimum Projected Increase in SEDA's Budget a/
(US3 000)
1994V'  1995/  1996  l97    19"   1999   2000  2001.
E.stmted An...]  dgd (aluan-ofgprnut mdl)  345  300  303  346    347   392    392    392
E.rmatad 00H Contnbutou for Rcuffwat Coa. d'  3     6      49    49     95     95     48
%* InormA ual Bud5et Rerq- antm                      I     1 4    0     13      0
* E alm. mdude p.o and phyac.1 -n9igaua.., M tamx  Total. my not add up du. to rafn&m
bl Aa1 budget pavd by Co.W    for 1994 (Lp. 2 3 milbon)
c/ AcOual budget .provd by Crp.. for 1995 (Lp 2 Htlhon)
d/ Egtm.bd ,anta] -.:t  p...dnur. a.ad -th projd unplan.bo
e/ 0OH co bt-abo ..Woaltd bued on ato prjad--ont.
5. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Preparation
5.1    Project preparation was financed with a grant of 42,400,000 (US $400,000
equivalent) from the PHRD Fund, and by the GOH. The project preparation was
coordinated by the PCU, which held frequent consultations with the various agencies that
will be involved in the project, and particularly with the following: (a) FlHS, because of
its role in implementing the investment component; (b) SECPLAN, because of its overall
planning role; and (c) SRN, because of its role as head of the agriculture and natural
resources sectors. Additionally, the PCU has worked closely with key staff from DPPA
and DECA in project design and preparation. The proposed project was submitted by
SEDA to IDA at the time of appraisal and is contained in the project files, along with
relevant documents produced in the course of project preparation (Annex L). The PCU
will assume project implementation functions after the credit becomes effective.
5.2    The environmental investments subcomponent of the proposed project was
prepared by FHIS staff, working closely with the PCU and IDA staff. FHIS' experience
with the two IDA credits that it has received has facilitated the preparation of the
investment component and prepared the FHIS staff to implement the proposed project.
B. Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
5.3    SEDA will be responsible for overall project management. FlUS will be
responsible for the Environmental Investment Subcomponent. Overall responsibility for
the management of the project in SEDA will fall on the PCU, which has coordinated the
preparation and design of the project. The PCU will work closely with SEDA's two
directorates, DPPA and DECA, and with FHIS. The PCU will have a staff of six: (i) a
general coordinator, responsible for overall project management; (ii) a technical
coordinator, responsible for the preparation of the annual operating plans and budgets, and
for ensuring the technical standards during project implementation are met; (iii) an
administrative coordinator, responsible for all the administrative matters related to the
management of the project, inter alia, processing all disbursement applications, no
objection requests, and other IDA-related administrative tasks; (iv) an accountant; (v) a
secretary; and (vi) an office assistant. DPPA will have the lead responsibility over the



29
Environmental Planning and Legislation Component and the Technical Assistance for
Municipal Environmental Management Subcomponent. DECA will have the lead
responsibility for the Environmental Quality Assessment Component. FHIS will have the
lead responsibility for the Environmental Investment Subcomponent.
5.4   The overall framework for the selection and management of the environmental
investment subprojects is contained in the operating procedures and guidelines which
SEDA and FHIS have agreed to (Annex G), and that can be found in the project files.
SEDA will have a continuing role of commenting on environmental projects by
participating in the approval of subprojects as part of FHIS' operating committee. In this
capacity, SEDA will have the right to veto projects that are environmentally unsound,
within an established period of time (five working days). FHIS will be responsible for the
contracting and supervision of subprojects, using the same procedures that it uses with it
other infrastructure projects. Under these procedures, works are executed by private
contractors and are supervised by FHIS until they are completed and transferred to the
municipality for operation and maintenance. For the execution of the line of credit, FHIS
will operate through the PASI. Subloans will be made to intermediary NGOs, and they in
turn will make subloans to the final beneficiaries as described in para. 3.29 and in Annex
G.
5.5   The proposed project will be implemented over a period of approximately six
years, and is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001. Selected project activities are
expected to begin after appraisal mission is concluded and will be eligible for retroactive
financing in an amount equivalent to US $1.08 million, after July 1, 1994. All project
activities will begin on the first year of the project, with the exception of the Pilot
Environmental Impact Assessment and Auditing Subcomponent and a few other minor
activities. A project implementation schedule is contained in Annex E.
C. Procurement
5.6   A Country Procurement Assessment Report for Honduras was issued in
September 1990. Honduran procurement legislation and procedures are generally
satisfactory, except where participation of foreign contractors and consultants are
concerned, due to the preference provisions for local contractors and consultants. In any
event, ICB in this project is not feasible. Subprojects will consist of many small and
dispersed contracts. Goods will be purchased mostly through limited international bidding
(LIB) among qualified suppliers. Limited competitive bidding is a standard practice in the
Honduran private sector. Importers generally obtain quotations from several suppliers and
buy on the basis of best quality and price. Table 8 (page 30) summarizes procurement
arrangements under the credit.
5.7   The project's Operations Manual, as revised after negotiations, will provide a
detailed description of all procurement procedures to be used by any of the project entities
(SEDA, FHlIS and PCU) with purchasing/contracting responsibilities and will include a
procurement schedule. The hiring of a procurement agent has also been considered, since



30
the implementing agency, SEDA, is a newly created government agency and a rapid
disbursement pace is expected for the first two years. The following paragraphs indicate
those procurement activities which will require prior review by IDA. Where prior review
will not be required, ex-post review of contract documentation will be carried out during
supervision. The proposed review methods are expected to provide a prior review
coverage of 40% in value of all IDA-financed contracts. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the GOH that procurement arrangements satisfactory to IDA will be
followed as described in paras. 5.8-5.10 (para. 7.2(e)).
Table 8: Procurement Arrangements a/
CuSS 000)
Procurement Method
International        Local
CompeUUve         CompetiUve
Bidding           Bidding        Other       N.I.F.     Total
I.Works
1. I Emviruumntal Inveswtnta (Fl-S)
Subprojsact /a                                                                         3I        1,90S /f               2,726
(777)     (1,313)                (2,590)
Sublom                                                                  -                 -        404           -        404
(404)                 (404)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehidca, Cnputar, Ollcc Equipmnt,
Labomtry and Field Equipment                                              -               60       1,147 /g               1,207
(56)     (1,067)                (1,123)
2.2 Fumniture                                                              -                -           -         33          33
3. Co,uultancxe
3.1 Conultants, Tcchical Anistance and Studics /b                                            -      4,343        296       5,139
(4,622)                (4,622)
3.2 Trainig /c                                                             -                 -        337           -        337
(S43)                  (343)
3.3 Procct Coordinatig Uhit /d                                                              -         303           -        S03
(763)                  (763)
4. Nicellancous
4.1 IncrmnntalRccurrewtExpenditures/e                                      -                -         343        135         983
(433)                  (433)
4.2 Adrinirtraion of Invstmrcnt Subprojecu (FHIS)                          -                 -          -        292         292
Total                                                                          -73                     10,S41       760       12,430
(333)    (9,945)           -   (10,778)
Note: Figures in parceutheis arc the rcspective amotnts finsaed by IDA
la Subproj*cls executed by FHIS
\b Inhldes  iuces nd promotioa, and prmtion mntenal.
Ic Includes travd and per diern for training
\d Includes PCU ularies, Auditirg and Pcuremnnt Agency
ic Includes incrementl recurrcnt salaries, operating cots and officc rnaterials
TfLocal ahopping for USSI million and direct cntractiig for 0. niillion
g IJB for USSO. S nillion, and local and iritntional shopping for about USS0.2 miLion
5.8    Goods. IDA's Procurement Guidelines (May 1992) will govern the procurement
of all goods financed under the project. Computer and related equipment, furniture,



31
vehicles, and other office, laboratory and field equipment will represent about 10% of total
project costs. This equipment is primarily manufactured abroad and will be procured
under LIB procedures from suppliers with established maintenance and services facilities
in Honduras. Standard bidding documents isssued be the World Bank will be used for all
procurement through LIB. For procurement using LCB procedures, standard bidding
documents acceptable to IDA will be used. To the extent possible, contracts for goods
will be grouped in lots to allow procurement of larger packages. In the case of computer
equipment, vehicles, laboratory and field equipment packages exceeding US $50,000 will
be procured through LIB. Such equipment in lots below US $50,000 will be procured
through international shopping procedures up to an aggregate amount of US $150,000.
Other equipment (e.g., office equipment) will be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) in packages of US$25,000 or more. When estimated to cost less than US
$25,000 per package, and up to an aggregate amount equivalent of US $50,000,
equipment will be procured under local shopping procedures with quotations from at least
three eligible suppliers. LIB contracts and the first three LCB contracts for SEDA and
FHIS each year will be subject to prior review by IDA.
5.9   Investment Subprojects. IDA's Procurement Guidelines (May 1992) will govern
the procurement of all civil works and associated materials financed under the project.
Investment subprojects will consist of civil works and associated materials for small scale
environmental investment subprojects implemented by FHIS and a line of credit to
financial intermediaries (NGOs) implemented by PASI. Civil works or goods for small
scale environmental investment subprojects will represent about 24% of total costs of the
proposed project and will not exceed US $164,000 equivalent of project funds for any one
subproject. Cost-sharing by municipalities will be encouraged, particularly in those cases
where projects exceed the maximum amount eligible for project financing as stated above.
Procurement for all subprojects will be through LCB, local shopping, and direct
contracting. LCB will be used for subprojects over US $70,000 and local shopping for
subprojects under that amount, up to and aggregate of US $1,000,000. Direct contracting
may be allowed for subprojects under US $35,000 each in remote areas where local
shopping is not feasible, up to an aggregate amount of US $820,000. These procurement
procedures, with the exception of the maximum allowable subproject amount, are the
same used by FHIS under the IDA financed FFHS-Il project. The line of credit to financial
intermediaries will be operated under PASI, which will award loans to no more than three
NGOs acceptable to IDA, selected from five candidate NGOs submitted at negotiations by
FIUS for consideration by IDA (para. 7.1). The selected NGOs will receive loans in
amounts not exceeding US $167,000 for them to award subloans to eligible small and
micro-enterprise for (a) ecotourism, (b) solid waste collection and recycling, and (c)
cottage industry pollution abatement projects, following the guidelines developed by the
pre-investment studies as described in para. 3.29 and Annex G. The final beneficiaries (the
recipients of the subloans) will follow standard commercial practices satisfactory to IDA
for the purchase of materials. The first three LCB contracts for FHIS each year will be
subject to prior review by the Bank.



32
5. 10  Consultants. IDA's Guidelines for the UIse of Consultatits (August 1981) will
govern all consultancies financed under the project. Terms of reference for all studies and
contracts for services will be subject to IDA approval. Prior review of all consultant
contracts with individuals will be required for contracts exceeding US $10,000 and for all
consultant contracts with firms exceeding US $30,000. These thresholds will allow for
prior review of approximately 60% of the total value of Bank financed consultants
contracts. Contracts below the respective prior review threshold will require only prior
review of terms of reference and post-review.
D. Disbursements
5.11  The proposed credit will be disbursed over a six year period, with a completion
date of June 30, 2001 (Table 9, page 33). The project closing date will be December 31,
2001. The proceeds of the IDA credit will be disbursed against eligible project
expenditures at the following rates (net of taxes): (a) 100% of the PCU salaries and
operating expenditures, including travel and per diem, (b) 100% of the costs for consultant
services and studies; (c) 100% of the training activities including travel and per diem, (d)
100% of costs for equipment and vehicles; (e) 100% of costs for small investment projects
and pre-investment studies, (f) 100% for costs for the line of credit for small investment
projects; and (g) incremental recurrent expenditures will be financed by IDA on a
declining basis: 100% in 1995 and 1996, 60% in 1997 and 1998, 20% in 1999 and 2000;
and 0% in 2001. The financing plan by disbursement categories, the disbursement
schedule by funding sources, and the schedule of expenditures by component and
disbursement category are presented in Table 5 (page 27), Table 10 (page 34), and Annex
F, respectively. An estimated schedule of disbursements is contained in Table 9 (page 33).
5.12  Except for contracts requiring prior review, disbursements would be made against
certified statement of expenditures (SOEs) for which detailed documentation to provide
evidence of expenditures would be retained by the implementing agencies and made
available for the required audit and for IDA supervision missions. Disbursements for
contracts for goods not exceeding US $50,000, for incremental recurrent and operating
expenditures, and for consultancies and services not exceeding US $30,000 with
consultant companies and US $10,000 with individual consultants would be made against
SOEs prepared by the implementing agencies. SOEs would be submitted directly to IDA
every month to request reimbursement.
5.13   To ensure timely and efficient project implementation, various start-up activities
are underway: (a) the PCU has started preparation of the operations manuals and
procedures to be followed by SEDA, FIS, and the other implementing agencies, terms of
reference for the consultants and incremental staff, and the technical specification of the
equipment that will be required to start project implementation on schedule, (b)
SECPLAN has initiated the establishment of the UOT and the preparatory work for the
preparation of the National Land Use Plan; and (c) FHIS has initiated the organization of
its environmental unit and has begun to review the current subproject specifications to
incorporate environmental criteria. Retroactive financing will be provided in respect of all



33
expenditure categories up to US $1.08 million (10% of the proposed credit) for eligible
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1994. The eligible expenditures agreed with the GOH
after appraisal are the establishment, operations and associated activities of the UOT
(para. 3.9), FHIS' Environmental Unit (para. 3.30), PCU (para. 3.35), and those activities
under the Technical Assistance for Municipal Environmental Mangement Subcomponent
(para. 3.26).
Table 9: Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements a/
(USs '000)
Standard
Disbursed Durine                             Disbursement
Semester       Cununulative Disbursement    Profile b/
IDA Fiscal Year  Semester Ending    Amount  % of       Amount       % of         %ofTotal
Total                  Total
1996        December95         1,842         17        1,842         17                 0
June 96          2,398         22       4,240         39                 10
1997        Decernber 96       2,398         22       6,638          62                18
June 97           957           9       7,595         70                 26
1998        Decernber 97        957           9       8,552         79                 38
June98            585           5       9,136         85                 54
1999        Decernber98         585           5       9,721          90                70
June99            330           3       10,051        93                 82
2000        December 99          330          3       10,382         96                 90
June00             151          1       10,532        98                 94
2001        December00           151          1       10,683         99                 98
June 01            96           1       10,778        100               100
a] Credit assumed to beconme effective on July 1995. Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Includes price and physical contingencies.
b/ Standard Disbursement Profile for agriculture sector projects in Honduras (June 1994).
5.14   While estimated disbursements are expected to take place over six years, which
matches the standard disbursement profile for agriculture projects in Honduras, the credit
is estimated to disburse more rapidly the first few years than the standard disbursement
profile indicates. The reason for this is that the proposed project requires that most of the
procurement of goods and services, and the financing of environmental investments take
place during the first two years. In this period, approximately 29% of the total project cost
is expected to be spent for consultants, studies, seminars and workshops, and equipment
alone; in addition to all the environmental investment subprojects, which correspond to
25% of the total project costs (Annex F). To minimize the risks associated with the
proposed disbursement profile, the following actions are taking place: (i) a number of
preparatory activities are currently being undertaken by the PCU and the FHIS to advance
the procurement process; (ii) the PCU has been working on the procedures for project
implementation since the early stages of project preparation and their familiarity with the
project, its requirements and the agencies involved will facilitate significantly the
implementation process, (iii) the services of a procurement agency are being retained to



34
assist the PCU with the contracting of consultants and the acquisition of equipment;
finally, (iv) the FHIS has ample experience in the management of investments of the size
and for the target groups being considered under the proposed project, and the
implementation projections for the component under their management is based on past
performance experience.
Table 10: Financing Plan and Estimated Annual Disbursements a/
(USs o000)
1995b/    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2001b/   Total
IDA        1,842    4,795    1,914    1,169   661     301      96   10,778
GOH         217      597     231     179      202     195       80    1,701
Total      2,060    5,393    2,145    1,348  863      496     175   12,480
aJ Includes price and physical contingencies, and taxes. Totals may not add up due to rounding.
b/ Covers six months of operations
5.15   At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOH that a Special Account
will be established at the Central Bank of Honduras with an initial deposit of US $0.25
million, the estimated amount of four months of disbursement under the proposed project
for activities other than the environmental investments. After an aggregate amount of US
$0.75 million has been withdrawn from the Special Account the amount of the deposit will
be increased to US $0.5 million. The Special Account will be managed by SHCP, under
established procedures between IDA and the GOH (para. 7.2(c)). The Special Account
will be accessible by SEDA and FHIS, through SHCP5, and will be replenished monthly on
their request (and no less frequently than every 3 months), or whenever one third of the
authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first. FHIS will notify the PCU,
whenever initiating a replenishment request. Withdrawal applications for replenishment of
the Special Account will be fully documented, except for expenditures not subject to prior
review by IDA (see para. 5.12). All replenishment applications should accompanied by
monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the
Borrower. Withdrawal applications for payments to be made outside of the Special
Account will be accepted provided that the amount requested is equivalent to at least 10%
of the amount advanced to the Special Account (US $50,000).
E. Accounts and Audits
5.16   At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOH regarding auditing
arrangements for the SEDA and FHIS implemented activities of the proposed project, as
described in this, and the following paragraph (para. 7.2(d)). For the SEDA- implemented
activities, an independent auditor acceptable to IDA will: (a) audit accounts of SEDA,
SOEs, and the Special Account; (b) apply auditing procedures satisfactory to IDA that
In order to expedite the replenishment procedures, SHCP has agreed to process the replenishment
requests within 5 working days of receiving the properly completed documentation from the PCU or
FHS.



35
conform to generally accepted auditing procedures; (c) carry out its auditing work in a
timely manner (an annual audit report will be presented to IDA no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year); and (d) render an audit opinion, or the reason why such
opinion cannot be rendered. Auditing procedures were submitted to IDA by SEDA prior
to negotiations and will be incorporated into the Operations Manual. The administrative
subcomponent of the proposed project will provide assistance to SEDA in the
establishment of an accounting system.
5.17  The FHIS-implemented activities of the proposed project provide for the
continuation of auditing arrangements and procedures currently taking place under IDA's
FHIS II project. These arrangements provide for a system of quarterly and annual audits.
Quarterly audits will be undertaken by private independent external auditors, acceptable to
IDA, who will examine a sample of subprojects6, review the contracts thereunder,
ascertain compliance with contract terms, review physical progress and adequacy of
accounting records, and state whether procurement guidelines are being followed. In
addition physical inspections will be conducted by qualified personnel in the context of the
above-mentioned quarterly audits. Private independent external auditors, acceptable to
IDA, will alsc continue the annual audits of FHIS which provide for the submission to
IDA, through the PCU, within six months after the end of the fiscal year a report which
will contain certified copies of balance sheets and income statements, with the auditor's
opinion of these financial documents and separate opinions on: (a) project accounts; (b)
SOEs, (c) procurement procedures; and (d) a summary of the quarterly audits of
subprojects.
F. Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.18  Because of the complexity of the project and the fact that environmental
management is a recent addition to the priorities of the GOH, falling under the mandate of
relatively new institutions, the project will require extensive and close supervision,
particularly during the first two years (Annex J). To facilitate the start of implementation
activities, a project launch workshop will be held before or shortly after the project
becomes effective. It is expected that the project will become effective in July 1995. The
workshop will be organized by the PCU, with the assistance of external facilitators. The
purpose of the workshop will be to familiarize the executing agencies with IDA
procurement, disbursement, and other administrative procedures and to ensure that project
managers and staff develop a common understanding of the project, its objectives, its
targets, and the role of each of the agencies involved in project implementation. A major
focus of the workshop will be to discuss in detail the preparation and execution of the
annual operating plans of each implementing agency and to clearly identify critical
coordination areas.
5.19   Semi-annual IDA supervision missions will evaluate progress against the annual
operating plans, and against the agreed upon project performance and impact indicators
6 A proportional higher sample of subprojects awarded through direct contracts will be subject to
audits.



36
(Annex I). Each year one of IDA supervision missions will coincide with a formal annual
review, or the mid-term review to be carried out jointly with the GOH during the third
year of project implementation (September 1998). Annual and mid-term reviews will
assess progress against performance and impact indicators and will be used to evaluate
possible adjustments that may be required. They will also include implementation planning
workshops to provide representatives of the participating agencies with an opportunity to
review progress, refine plans, and discuss possible adjustments to the different aspects of
project implementation. Annual reviews will be carried out no later than March 31 each
year; and the mid-term review by September 30, 1998. The semi-annual supervision
mission will be carried out no later than September each year.
5.20  The PCU will be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of the project. The
Operations Manual, which will be distributed to all the participating agencies, includes
detailed instructions on all administrative matters, and the monitoring and evaluation
procedures to be adopted. From the monitoring and evaluation information provided by
the participating agencies in the course of project implementation, the PCU will prepare all
the documentation required by IDA for the supervision of the project (Annex I and Annex
J). The reports will follow a format that will be included in the Operations Manual. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOH that quarterly progress reports, in a
format satisfactory to IDA, will be sent to IDA,through the PCU, within 30 days of the
end of the quarter starting with the third quarter (July-September) of 1995 during the first
year; thereafter the progress reports will be sent to IDA semi-annually within 30 days of
the end of the semester starting with the second semester (July-December) of 1996 (para.
7.2(f)).
5.21   The PCU will also be responsible for the preparation of the annual operating plans
and budgets, in coordination with all the participating agencies. At negotiations,
assurances will obtained from the GOH that these plans and budget will be submitted to
IDA for review and approval not later than November 30 each year starting with
November 30, 1995 for the 1996 plan and budget. As condition of effectiveness the
operating plan and budget for the first six months of the project (July - December 1995)
should be submitted in June 1995 (para. 7.4 (a)).
6. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1   Sustainable economic growth in Honduras depends on halting the spread of
environmental degradation and on the sound management of the country's natural
resources. Unless this is done, Honduras not only risks loss of its most promising
opportunities for economic growth in agriculture, fisheries, and tourism, but also puts in
jeopardy its ability to maintain current production levels and exposes its citizens to health
and environmental hazards. The proposed project will help Honduras meet its
environmental challenges through important institutional operational and regulatory



37
changes, and investments in environmental protection and conservation projects at the
local level.
6.2   Environmental Planning and Legal Framework. The proposed project will
strengthen the GOH's capability to develop and implement environmental policies,
strategies, and plans. This will be accomplish by internalizing environmental
considerations and variables in the development and land use planning initiatives of the
GOH. The establishment of a permanent and participatory environmental planning
process will open the door for public input on the decisions that determine the
sustainability of the models of development being adopted by the government. The
proposed project will clarify the legal framework, making it easier and more likely that the
private sector will react favorably to the development of environmental laws and
regulations while increasing the capacity of government agencies to enforce environmental
laws. It will additionally generate and make available data and information needed for
carrying out an effective environmental program, train professionals in environmental and
natural resources management, establish an environmental data system, and increase the
awareness and understanding of environmental problems. As part of the environmental
planning process, efforts will be made to quantify in economic and social terms the costs
and benefits of the environmental policies and actions implemented by the GOH.
6.3   Environmental Impact Assessments and Audits. The proposed project will assist
the GOH in establishing an effective and transparent environmental impact assessment
process. It will fund the development of the methodology for conducting environmental
impact assessments and audits in key sectors and will engage government agencies, the
private sector and the public in general in the environmental assessment of development
projects with potentially negative environmental effects.
6.4   Local Government and Community Participation in Environmental Management
Initiatives. The proposed project will improve environmental management capacities at
the local level, broaden understanding and support for environmental protection.
Additionally, it will finance high priority environmental projects at the municipal and
community level aimed at improving the quality of the environment for the urban and rural
poor.
B. Risks
6.5   Resistance to the Role of SEDA. SEDA is a new institution and may experience
resistance from older, larger and more powerful public sector institutions as it begins to
assume its legally mandated role to develop, manage, coordinate, and supervise
environmental policy. To the extent possible this risk has been reduced by: (a) involving
key other public agencies in the project preparation process and providing them assistance
under the proposed project, (b) strengthening SEDA's planning and coordination capacity
under the institutional component of the proposed project, (c) resolving conflicting laws
and regulations that will undermine SEDA's authority under the harmonization of the laws
subcomponent of the proposed project, and (d) receiving confirmation of the GOH's



38
political commitment to the priority it attaches to environmental management and the
environment. In the long run, the effective performance of SEDA and the continued
political commitment of the GOH will be the best assurance that this risk will be
overcome.
6.6   Project Complexity. The nature of environmental projects, which cut across many
sectoral activities, and the nature of institutional development, which calls on the
development of many skills and capacities, make some project complexity inevitable.
Project design and preparation have tried to reduce this risk in the following ways: (a)
requiring operating agreements that establish a clear definition of the roles of, and
responsibilities between, public institutions involved in project implementation, (b)
utilizing existing institutions, rather than creating new ones7; (c) preparing a project
implementation plan incorporating the lessons learned from other similar IDA/Bank
financed projects8; (d) eliminating project components, or combining them with other
activities9; and (e) creating a strong PCU that began its work as SEDA's project
preparation unit in November 1993 and is now thoroughly familiar with the proposed
project and knowledgeable about IDA procedures.
6.7    Human Resources. Although the development of human resources is a key
subcomponent of the institutional development of the proposed project, the success of this
subcomponent will depend in the longer term on addressing the underlying problems that
have made it difficult for well-qualified technical personnel to be recruited and retained in
the civil service. These issues are being addressed in the context of the preparation of an
IDA public sector adjustment operation. In the shorter run, the problem is addressed by
the contracting of local persons outside the civil service for project implementation and
technical assistance support.
6.8    Counterpart Funding. There is the risk of receiving timely and adequate
counterpart financial support. The risk, however, has been reduced by designing the
proposed project so that SEDA will not expand over its current authorized level of
employees and its budget will increase only gradually over the life of the proposed project.
A letter of commitment of counterpart funds from SHCP (Annex H) and a letter stating
the project priority from SECPLAN (Annex K) have been submitted. These letters,
together with the policy statement of the GOH (Annex D) reinforce the commitment of
the current administration to the successful implementation of the proposed project.
Additionally, at negotiations, it was agreed that a formal letter of commitment from the
GOH to provide counterpart funding and to make the required annual budget allocations
for the project will be submitted to IDA as a condition of credit effectiveness (para
7.4(b)).
FH1S is being used for the investment component, rather than creating a new environmental fund.
8 The advice of consultants with experience in IDA/Bank's Chile and Bolivia projects was secured.
9  The environmental education curriculum subcomponent has been transferred to the education project
currently under preparation.



39
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
7.1   During project preparation, agreements were reached regarding the role that
SEDA and key government agencies will play in support of an environmental and land use
planning process, enforcement of environmental legislation, definition of environmental
policy, and coordination of environmental management activities. Additionally, agreement
was reached regarding the role of SEDA and sectoral agencies in the development and
implementation of the SINIA and SINEIA, a pilot technical assistance program for
selected municipalities on environmental management, and support to municipalities and
communities on for the design and implementation of environmental investment
subprojects through FHIS. The documentation on these matters received prior to
negotiations can be found in the project files and is listed in Annex L. Prior to
negotiations, FHIS submitted the institutional profiles of five NGOs eligible to act as
financial intermediaries for the PASI-operated line of credit for environmental investments
by small and micro-enterprises (para. 3.29).
7.2   At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOH that:
(a) the agreements listed in the implementation schedule (Annex E) will be signed by
the dates indicated therein (paras. 3.4, 3.6, 3.16, 3.22, 3.23, 3.26);
(b) the economic incentives, biodiversity conservation and solid waste management
studies will be completed by the dates indicated in the implementation schedule
(Annex E) and that the relevant results will be incorporated in the Borrower's
environmental planning initiatives (para. 3.6);
(c) the Special Account will established and maintained (para. 5.15) and adequate
counterpart funding for each participating agency will be made available to the
project in a timely manner (para. 4.4);
(d) the project accounts and Special Account will be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to IDA and a copy of the audit report, including a separate
opinion on SOEs, will be provided to IDA through SEDA's PCU within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.16);
(e) procurement arrangements, satisfactory to IDA will be followed (para. 5.7);
(f) quarterly progress reports, in a format satisfactory to IDA, will be sent to IDA,
through the PCU, within 30 days of the end of the quarter starting with the third
quarter (July-September) of 1995 during the first year; thereafter the progress
reports will be sent to IDA semi-annually within 30 days of the end of the semester
starting with the second semester (July-December) of 1996 (para. 5.20);



40
(g) an operating plan and budget for the succeeding year will be submitted by each
November 30 (including November 30, 1995) throughout the project
implementation period, the annual operating plan and budget will be submitted to
IDA for review and approval; joint GOH-IDA annual supervision reviews will be
held no later than March 31 of each project year beginning in 1996; and a project
mid-term review will be carried out no later than September 30, 1998 (para. 5.21),
and
(h) the PCU will be maintained adequately staffed and equipped during the life of the
project (para. 3.34), and adequate space to accommodate the incremental
personnel, consultants and equipment will be provided by all the participating
agencies (paras. 3.11, 3.23).
7.3    Conditions of disbursement. The following are conditions of disbursement:
(a) for legal training activities, a signed agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
between the GOH and the EJ (para. 3.16);
(b) for any Fl-S-implemented activities, a signed agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, between the GOH and FlIS regarding the implementation of the
Environmental Investments Subcomponent, including the environmental
assessment criteria that will be used to select and evaluate the subprojects and the
role of SEDA in subproject approval and monitoring (para. 3.27),
(c) for municipal and community environmental investment subproject categories
financed through FHIS, the relevant pre-investment studies, satisfactory to the
Association (para. 3.28), and
(d) for the small and micro-enterprise line of credit managed by FHIS, the relevant
pre-investment studies, satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.29).
7.4   Conditions of Credit Effectiveness. Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the
operating plan and budget for the first six months (July - December 1995) of the project
(para. 5.21); and (b) a formal letter of commitment from the GOH to provide counterpart
funding and to make the required annual budget allocations for the project (para. 6.8).
B. Recommendation
7.5   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project will
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 7.4 million (US $10.8 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Honduras on. standard IDA terms, repayable in 40 years
including 10 years of grace. Retroactive financing from the IDA credit for up to SDR
0.74 million (US $1.08 million equivalent) for eligible expenditures incurred after July 1,
1994, is recommended.



Annex A
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Environmental Impact Assessment Categories
All project, public or pnrvate, will fall in one of two environmental impact assessment categories, as described in the regulations of the National System of
Environmental Impact Assessment (Sistema Nacional de Evaluacion de Impacto Ambiental - SINEIA), which can be found in the project files. Category 1,
includes projects that do not require and environmental impact assessment, but require an environmental analysis using procedures established by the Ministry
of the Environment (SEDA). Category 11 includes projects that require a formal EIA, and recognized three levels as indicated below.
LEVEL 1                                                 LEVEL 2                                                 LEVEL 3
Projects with a high level of environmental risk that   Project with an intermediate level of environmental risk  Projects with minimal environmental risks but that still
require a full EIA.                                     that require an intermediate EIA.                        require an EIA to cover specific negative effects on the
environment.
Steps Necessary to Obtain an Environmental License
PROCESSING STEPS                      APPLICANT'                          SEDA'                         CONSULTANTJ                 ENVIRONMENTAL UNITS4,
(Time)                                                                                                                       NGOs5, GENERAL PUBLIC
Step I              . Registers project and fill out form  * Receives documents and opens file
(2 days)               for environmental license.        for project.
Register, fill out form for  . Publicly announces intention to  * Informs other pertinent
environmental license        obtain license.                   organizations.
Step 2                                                . Coordinates interinstitutional team                               . NGOs, Community groups may
(30 days)                                                 formed with environmental units,                                   send comments to SEDA to include
Categorization of project and                                    local govemment offices and NGOs                                    in the terms of reference.
preparation of terms of reference                                  to: (a) inspect project site and                                  * Environmental units, municipal
prepare a preliminary                                              govemments and NGOs may
environmental analysis; (b) assign a                               participate in preparation of the
I   APPLICANT: Individual or company submitting an application for an environmental license for a particular project.
2   SEDA: Ministry of the Environment (Secretaria del Ambiente), represented by the General Directorate of Environmental Assessment and Control (Direcci6n General de
Evaluaci6n y Control Ambiental - DECA).
3   CONSULTANT: Individual or firm hired by the applicant to prepare the environmental impact assessment (FIA) under the terms of reference prepared by SEDA.
4   ENVIRONMENTAL UNITS: Environmental units operating in sectoral agencies (e.g., ministries), or municipalities.
5   NGO: Non government organization.



Annex A
Page 2 of 2
PROCESSING STEPS                       APPLICANT'                             SEDA2                          CONSULTANT'                  ENVIRONMENTAL UNITS1,
(fMie)                                                                                                                             NGOs5, GENERAL PUBLIC
category (I or 11) to the project                                      terms of reference.
based on its potential environmental
impact; and (c) consult the general
public.
. Issues the clearance for the project,
if assigned to Category 1.
* Prepares the terms of reference for
environmental impact assessment
(EIA) for the project, if assigned to
Category 11.
Step 3                . Upon receiving the terms of                                         a Prepares ELA following terms of   * NGOs, communities, and the
(No definite time limit)      reference for the EIA prepared by                                      reference.                          general public may participate in
Preparation of EIA           SEDA, the applicant may: (a)                                         . Holds public consultations with the  the preparation of the EIA,
proceed with the preparation of the                                   community, NGOs, and the general    following the terms of reference.
EIA; or (b) appeal to SEDA                                            public according to terms of      * Environmental units participate in
requesting a modification in the                                      reference.                          the follow-up activities resulting
terms of reference.                                                  * Delivers the completed EIA to      from the ELk
* Reviews EIA prepared by the                                           applicant.
consultant and submits it for
SEDA's consideratioii.
Step 4                * Announces publicly the submission   * Rcviews the EIA with the       * Revises the EIA as instructed by the   * Environmental units, NGOs,
(30 days)                of the completed EIA to SEDA.      interinstitutional committee, the   applicant.                         communities, and the general public  .
Evaluation of EIA          * Upon receiving the determination   NGOs, and the general public.                                          have access to the EIA and may
issued by SEDA, the applicant may:  * Prepares technical assessment of                                    submit written comments for
(a) accept the findings and signs an    the EIA and issues a determination                                SEDA's consideration.
agreement to comply with           which: (a) accepts, (b) rejects, or (c)                              . Environmental units may participate
mitigation measures established by  requests modifications to the EIA                                     in the review process.
SEDA; (b) revise the EIA following  submitted by the applicant.
SEDA's recommendations; or (c)
appeal SEDA's determination.
Step 5                                                   * Awards environmental license to the
(5 days)                                                   project after applicant signs the
Environmental license awarded                                        agreement to comply with the
mitigation measures indicated in
SEDA's determination.
* Does not award the environmental
license to project.



43
Annex B
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
1.    The 1982 Constitution of Honduras provided the general framework for
environmental protection and enactment of specific environmental laws. The
responsibility of the State to maintain the quality of the environment, and to regulate the
use of natural resources, is established in Articles 145 and 340 of the Constitution,
respectively. In July 1993 the General Environmental Law (LGA) was enacted. With it,
the legal, institutional, and operational framework for environmental management in
Honduras was strengthened. In legal terms, the LGA provided the principles for
environmental protection in every type of natural resource (e.g., air, water, soil, flora and
fauna). In institutional terms, it created several new institutions such as (i) the Ministry of
the Environment (SEDA), with a policy, planning, coordination, enforcement, and
monitoring role; (ii) the National Consultative Council of the Environment (COCONA),
with the role of formulating environmental policies; (iii) Technical Advisory Committee
(CTA) to act as the technical secretariat of the COCONA; and (iv) the Environmental
Attorney's Office (PA), responsible for assisting with the judicial and administrative
enforcement needs. In operational terms, the LGA and its subsequent regulations defined
new instruments and mechanisms for environmental management, among them the
National System of Environmental Information (SINIA) and the National System of
Environmental Impact Assessment (SINEIA).
2.    Even though the LGA has made a significant contribution to the improvement of
environmental management, much remains to be done. This is particularly true with
regard to the role and responsibility of the sectoral agencies, particularly in relation to the
development, monitoring and enforcement of environmental norms and technical
standards, and to the enforcement of environmental laws and regulations.
3.    Environmental management at the sectoral level. With the exception of the LGA,
the legislation dealing with environmental issues in Honduras remains dispersed and is
often contradictory. The LGA, by singling out SEDA as the principal agency responsible
for the environmental affairs in Honduras, has begun the move in the direction of
establishing more favorable legal and institutional conditions for the development and
implementation of a far reaching environmental agenda. However, given that sectoral
laws are the direct responsibility of sectoral agencies, and the issues related to
environmental norms and technical standards are not clearly defined in the LGA, the
mechanisms by which SEDA can ensure that these sectoral laws and their accompanying
regulations promote environmentally sustainable development and resource management
need to be much more clearly defined. This complex task is made more difficult by the
number and the relative strength of the existing sectoral agencies involved directly or
indirectly in environmental matters. These agencies include, among others, (i) the
Ministry of Natural Resources - SRN which has jurisdiction over agriculture, mining,
water resources, fisheries and others; (ii) the Ministry of Public Health (SSP) which has



44
Annex B
Page 2 of 5
jurisdiction water and air quality; (iii) the Ministry of Planning (SECPLAN) which is
responsible for land use planning (ordenamiento territorial); in addition to (iv) National
Autonomous Water and Sewage Service (SANAA); (v) National Electric Energy
Company (ENEE); and others.
4.    Enforcement of environmental laws and regulations. Several factors play a role in
determining the effectiveness of law enforcement efforts: clear institutional responsibilities,
consistent and complementary general and sectoral legislation, and adequate training for
law enforcement officials.
(a)   Institutional considerations. With the recent enactment of a law creating
the Public Prosecutor's Office (FGR), it is possible that the potential for
judicial enforcement of the environmental laws will be greater. It is
expected that, in principle, while the FGR will defend the interests of
society, the PA will continue to exercise its role as the legal counsel for the
State. Considering the potential functional overlap between the FGR and
the PA, effective coordination mechanisms and a clear definition of roles
will be required, in order to maximize their respective efforts.
(b)   Legal framework. The body of laws and regulations is still far from
consistent or properly harmonized. General environmental management,
for instance, is covered in the LGA and the 1992 Municipal Law. With
regard to the water sector additional laws are important such as the
National Waters Law, the law that establishes SANAA and the Health
Code. The forest sector is regulated by the Forestry Law, the law that
establishes the Honduran Forestry Development Corporation
(COHDEFOR), Forestry Incentives Law, and the Law for the
Modernization and Development of the Agrarian Sector. Regarding
pollution control and environmental quality, the primary laws are the
Health Code, the Plant Health Law the Animal Health Law, the Regulation
for Pesticides Control Law, the Hydrocarbons Law, the Terrestrial
Transportation Law, and the Labor Code. This list is by no means
complete, it just serves to illustrated the level of complexity of the
legislative milieu in some of the key sectors affected by, or affecting the
developing environmental agenda. At the same time that some areas are
cluttered with laws and regulations, others lack the proper legislative
framework. Take for instance environmental crimes, which have not been
typified in the Penal Code, and thus make it difficult to turn environmental
violations into serious offenses. Likewise, the lack of national quality and
emission standards constitutes a problem when an agency needs to
determine and prove that the environment has been harmed.
(c)    Legal training. The maze of laws and institutions affecting and regulating
the actions of both the public and private sectors, coupled with the recent
emergence of environmental management instruments (e.g., environmental



45
Annex B
Page 3 of 5
impact assessment, environmental audits, environmental permit), make the
compliance and enforcement of the environmental legislation difficult and
confusing. Lack of information about the new environmental legislation
and regulations is perhaps the most serious obstacle for their enforcement.
A recent interview with judges in Tegucigalpa showed that they were not
aware of the LGA and other relevant environmental requirements such as
environmental impact assessment. Among the possible, not mutually
exclusive, reasons that explain the interview's findings are: (i) the
inadequate training of law students; and (ii) the limited distribution and
high prices of the Official Gazette.
Legislation Related to Environment Mangement
I1.    General
a)    Municipal Law (Ley de Municipalidades)
b)    Constitution of the Republic (Constituci6n de la Republica)
c)    Law of the Attorney General of the Republic (Ley de la Procuraduria
General de La Republica)
d)    Law of the Public Prosecutor's Office (Ley de la Fiscalia General de la
Republica o Ministerio Publico)
e)    Law of the Controller General of the Republic (Ley Organica de la
Contraloria General de la Repiublica)
f)    General Environmental Law (Ley General del Ambiente)
g)    Regulation of the General Environmental Law (Reglamento de la Ley
General del Ambiente)
h)    Regulation of the National Environmental Impact Assessment System
(Reglamento del Sistema Nacional de Evaluacion de Impacto Ambiental)
2.    Water
a)    Civil Code (C6digo Civil)
b)    National Waters Law (Ley de Aprovechamiento de Aguas Nacionales)
c)    Law of the Constitution of the National Autonomous Water and Sewerage
Service (Ley Constitutiva del Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de Acueductos
y Alcantarillados)
3.    Forestry
a)    Forestry Law (Ley Forestal)
b)    Law of the Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (Ley de La
Corporaci6n Hondurefia de Desarrollo Forestal - COHDEFOR)
c)    Law of the Creation of the National School of Forestry Science (Ley de
Creaci6n de la Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Forestales)
d)    Forestry Incentives Law (Ley de Incentivos Forestales)



46
Annex B
Page 4 of 5
4.    Agriculture
a)    Law for the Modernization and Development of the Agricultural Sector
(Ley para la Modernizaci6n y el Desarrollo del Sector Agricola)
b)    Plant Health Law (Ley de Sanidad Vegetal)
c)    Regulation of the Registry, Import, Manufacturing, Storage, Transport and
Sale and Use of Pesticides (Reglamento de Registro, Importacion,
Elaboraci6n, Almacenamiento, Transporte, Venta y Uso de Plaguicidas
5.    Health
a)    Health Code (C6digo de Salud)
b)    Penal Code (C6digo Penal)
6.    Mining
a)    Mining Code (C6digo de Mineria)
b)    Law of the Exploration, Industrialization, Refining, Transport and
Commercialization of Fuel and Associated Substances (Ley de
Hidrocarburos)
7.    Fauna
a)    Fisheries Law (Ley de Pesca)
b)    Animal Health Law (Ley de Sanidad Animal)
8.    International Instruments
a)    Ramsar Convention, Protection of Wetlands
b)    Paris Convention, Protection of World's Cultural and Natural Patrimony
c)    Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species
d)    Montreal Protocol and the 1985 Vienna Convention, Protection of the
Ozone Layer
e)    Basel Convention, Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste
f)    Climate Change Convention
g)    Biodiversity Convention
Institutions Directly or Indirectly Involved in Environment Management
I     General
a)    Ministry of Environment (Secretaria del Ambiente)
b)    Ministry of Natural Resources (Secretaria de Recursos Naturales)
c)    Ministry of Coordination, Planning and Budget (Secretaria de
Coordinaci6n, Planeamiento y Presupuesto)
d)    Ministry of Economy (Secretaria de Econornia)
e)    Ministry of Public Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica)
f)    Ministry of Communication, Public Works and Transports (Secretaria de
Comunicaci6n, Obras Publicas y Transporte
g)    Ministry of Culture (Secretaria de Cultura)
h)    Ministry of Labor and Social Security (Ministerio de Trabajo y Previsi6n
Social)



47
Annex B
Page 5 of 5
i)    National Company of Electric Energy (Empresa Nacional de Energia
Electrica)
j)    Honduran Tourism Institute (Instituto Hondureino de Turismo)
k)    Environmental Attorney's Office (Procuraduria del Ambiente)
I)    Public Prosecuter's Office (Fiscal General de la Republica)
m)   Controller General of the Republic (Contraloria General de la Republica)
n)    National Congress - Environmental Comisson and Natural Resources
Comisson (Crongreso de la Naci6n - Comisiones de Medio Ambiente y de
Recursos Naturales)
2.    Water
a)    National Autonomous Water and Sewerage Service (Servicio Aut6nomo
Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
b)    Municipal Division of Waters (Division Municipal de Aguas-Municipalidad
de San Pedro Sula)
3.    Forestry
a)    Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (Ley de La Corporacion
Hondurefia de Desarrollo Forestal - COHDEFOR)
b)    National School of Forestry Science (Escuela Nacional de Ciencias
Forestales)
4.    Health
a)    Ministry of Health (Secretaria de la Salud Publica)
5.    Pollution Control
a)    Center for the Study and Control of Contaminants (Centro de Estudios y
Control de Contaminantes, Secretaria de Salud Publica)
6.    Land Tenure
a)    National Land Institute (Instituto Nacional de Tierras)
b)    National Agrarian Institute (Instituto Nacional Agrario)
7.    Private Sector
a)    Honduran Business Council (Consejo Hondurefio de la Empresa Privada)



48
Annex C
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT
1.    The General Environmental Law (LGA), which entered into effect in July, 1993,
created the Ministry of the Environment (SEDA). The functions of SEDA are as follows:
(a)   to define the objectives, formulate policy and establish environmental
priorities;
(b)   to coordinate the environmental activities of the public institutions and
promote the participation of the public in these activities;
(c)   to coordinate, with other government agencies, the development of the
National Land Use Plan (Plan de Ordenamiento Territorial);
(d)   to develop, implement and manage the National System of Environmental
Impact Assessment (SINFIA);
(e)   to coordinate environmental training programs for all levels of society;
(f)   to develop and coordinate the National System of Environmental
Information (SINIA).
(g)   to promote scientific research on environmental issues; and
(h)   in general terms, to dictate, execute and propose any necessary means for
the preservation of the natural resources and the betterment of the quality
of human life.
MINISTER                       COCONA
E N V R O N E Y ' N O FI C  .. ... ....   .... ..   ... .. .. . . .. ... ... .... .. ..   ... ...  ... ....    .. .. . ... . .   .. . ... ..
VICE MINISTER                      CTA
LEGAL
| ADM[ISTiRONTICOUNSEL
| DPPA  |          Project            DECA
Coordination
Unit
Figure 1: Organizational Structure of SEDA
2.    The organizational structure' is presented in Figure 1. Its operating arms are the
General Directorate of Environmental Policy and Planning (DPPA) and the General
Originally, the organizational structure of SEDA included a third general directorate, the Direcci6n
General de Gesti6n y Desarrollo Ambiental. However, before it was implemented, it was determined



49
Annex C
Page 2 of 2
Directorate of Environmental Assessment and Control (DECA). Additionally, SEDA has
two inter-institutional instruments to serve as the vehicle for the development of a cross-
sectoral environmental agenda, the National Consultative Council of the Environment
(COCONA) and the Technical Advisory Committee (CTA).
3.    The DPPA has the following functions:
(a)   to prepare inventories of environmental problems and support natural
resource inventories;
(b)   to prepare environmental policy, objectives, goals, and strategies;
(c)   to coordinate the development of land use plans;
(d)   to harmonize environmental legislation;
(e)   to design, implement and manage the SINIA;
(f)   to promote environmental research;
(g)   to incorporate environmental principles in forestry and watershed
management plans;
(h)   to prepare and implement environmental training programs;
(i)   to coordinate with the Ministry of Education formal environmental
education programs
(j)   to plan and develop non-formal environmental education programs
(k)   to assist municipalities in the development of environmental units and in the
preparation of environmental programs and projects;
4.    Among the functions of the DECA are:
(a)   to design and manage the SINEIA;
(b)   to coordinate the preparation of technical norms; and
(c)   to supervise projects to ensure their compliance with environmental
regulations
5.    The COCONA is an advisory group, chaired by the Vice Minister of the
Environment, and formed by the vice ministers of several sectoral ministries, and
representatives of the private business community, NGOs, peasant and workers groups.
The COCONA has the mandate of establishing the environmental policy framework of
Honduras.
6.    The CTA is chaired by the Vice Minister of the Environment, and is composed of
environmental specialists from the public and private sectors. The CTA acts as secretariat
of the COCONA and has the mandate of advising the COCONA members and the
Minister of the Environment on all scientific and technical matters arising in the course of
developing and implementing the national environmental agenda.
7.    The Project Coordination Unit is a temporary unit established for the purpose of
supporting the administration and implementation of the IDA-financed Environmental
Development Project.
that it would be more efficient, operationally and financially, to limit the number of general
directorates to two and to distribute the work load among them.



50
Annex D
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POLICY STATEMENT FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS'
6.     ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
The main environmentalproblems the countryfaces are deforestaton; erosion, degradation of
maritime and coastal resources; inadequate management and pollution ofprotected areas and
wildlife; pollunon of rivers andfresh water resources; and the lack of adequate systems for the
disposal of solid waste and waste water
THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS
In the last 30 years deforestation has accelerated markedly. From 1965 to 1989 it is estimated that
the forested area was reduced to 5.2 million hectares, of which 2.8 million correspond to the pine
forests and 2.3 million to latifoliate forest (see Table 13). The rate of deforestation of the latifohate
forest was 2.2 percent per year; the average area of latifoliate forest destroyed was 62,500 hectares
per year. Destruction of the pine forest is less in both absolute and relative terms: the deforestation
rate was 1I.1 percent per year, with an average of 33,000 hectares lost annually.
Table 13
Millions of hectares
Forested Area (1)     Annual rate of
Forest Potential    1965       1989      deforestation (%)
Conifer             3.7            3.6        2.8             1.1
Latifoliate         3.9            3.8        2.3             2.2
Total               7.6            7.4        5.2             2.2
(1) Sources: FAO, 1965; GTZ, 1990
The situation in the forestry sector reflects the different pressures brought to bear on the forest by the
country's various economic and social groups. The strong economic groups (ranchers, loggers, and
landowners) pressure the forest in order to expand their livestock and farming activities, and to
exploit forest resources intensively and extensively. The forests, in turn, are pressured by migratory
agriculture to meet the needs of peasants who own marginal agnrcultural lands or landless peasants
for expansion and subsistence, as well as for use as fuelwood. The results of this type of exploitation
of forest resources have quickly ensued deforestation, erosion, floods, etc.
In the maritime and coastal area the situation is similar, marked by overexploitation of marine
resources by the export-oriented fishing and shrimping companies, and to a lesser degree by local
population groups engaged in fishing for subsistence and to meet the demand of the domestic
market; cutting of mangrove forests primarily for use as fuel in salt production; etc. As a result of
Excerpted from the official policy framework document (Las Medidas Econ6micas y su relaci6n con la
Politica de Desarrollo Sostenible y Equitativo del Gobierno de Honduras) submitted by the Govemrnent of
Honduras to the National Congress in July 1994.



51
Annex D
Page 2 of 4
this situation, the country's maritime and coastal resources are being degraded at a fast pace,
undercutting the viability of their sustainable use by present and future generations.
THE ENVIRONMENT AND DEVELOPMENT ACTION PLAN
Today, in view of the accelerated processes of liberalization and privatization nationally and
worldwide, there is an urgent need to redefine the role of the state, as both protector of natural
resources and regulator of their sustainable use. The problems noted above have largely resulted
from the lack of appropriate environmental policies, institutional weaknesses that make it difficult to
implement corrective measures, weak interinstitutional coordination (among both public- and
private-sector institutions), and the existence of an imprecise and incomplete regulatory framework.
The current Government has decided to abide by the general environmental policy guidelines set
forth in the Environment and Development Action Plan developed by SEDA. The Environment and
Development Action Plan proposed that govemment environmental policy begin with five strategic
programs to be carried out in a coordinated and complementary fashion around decision-making
geared to solving the country's priority environmental problems. These strategic programs are:
* The creation of a political andparticiatory consensus to address the question of environment
and development so as to incorporate concepts of sustainable development in all productive
activities. To attain more effective participation, an information system that is efficient in terms of
access and availability will be needed; such a system should ensure that the people and institutions
involved make decisions based on adequate knowledge of the subjects or matters on which an
opinion must be given or a decision made.
* Legal and institutional strengthening, in order to define consistent and coordinated actions for
formulating, implementing, and evaluating policy on the environment and sustainable
development. The strategy for legal and institutional strengthening requires institutionalizing the
participation of the entities involved in environmental management so that they take on the
commitment to decentralize state management, thereby promoting popular participation at both the
normative and operational levels, especially in local geographic areas through the municipal
governments.
* Implementation of an environmental education program, for both formal and non-formal
education, that considers sustainable development in its full meaning and that helps foster
environmental awareness in national society. In order for an environmental management strategy
such as this to be successfil, not only the community but also technical staff in charge of managing
this strategy need to have a certain level of training and education in environmental issues.
* Promotion and adoption of sustainable agriculture, to prevent degradation of soils and to
provide services to the impoverished rural majority. This strategy, like the next one, suggests the
need for a program to attack and overcome poverty. The program should focus on those areas
with the greatest environmental degradation, since the poorest population groups are located in
those areas.



52
Annex D
Page 3 of 4
Improving the urban environment in rekdion to povety, in order to halt deterioration and
improve living conditions for urban dweUlers, especially the poorest, at the same time strengthening
the productive capacity of the cities.
In summary, the Government will strengthen intemal capabilities for natural resource management
so that such resources can be used in a sustainable fashion, training the population and technical staff
in charge of management so that they are capable of evaluating, using, accounting for, and protecting
the country's natural wealth, In this regard, the education and training of Hondurans, especially the
poorest, should be a priority task of the Govemment, so as to facilitate their development and
technical progress, creating the conditions needed for living a decorous life on an equitable footing
with respect to the rest of the population.
THE GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL LAW
In order to seek solutions to the problems noted, especially the lack of an appropriate regulatory
framework, the National Congress passed the General Environmental Law via Decree No. 104-93
of May 26, 1993. In this Law, the conservation, restoration, and management of natural resources
are declared to be of public utility and social interest. At the same time, it creates the Ministry of the
Environment (SEDA), which is responsible for administering environmental legislation in Honduras,
formulating and coordinating national environmental policy, and for public- and private-sector
institutional coordination in this area; the Environmental Attomey's Office (PA), which by
delegation represents the interests of the state administratively and judicially in relation to
environmental issues; and the National Consultative Council of the Environment (COCONA),
advisory body to the Ministry of the Environment.
The General Environmental Law marks the first time Honduras has ever had a substantial legal
framework that regulates environmental management per se, while also defining a series of control
instruments such as environmental impact studies by existing industries and those to be formed in
the future, and mandates comprehensive management of the national territory to ensure the rational
use of lands, soils, and watersheds. In addition to the characteristics of the land, one should also take
into account the economic, demographic, and social factors. Finally, the Law includes sanctions for
violators and tax incentives for the companies required by the Environmental Impact Assessment
System to acquire special machinery and equipment to control emissions or pollutants either to start
up their activities or to continue in operation.
It is hoped that with the creation of Ministry of the Environment the capacity of the public sector to
protect the environment and foster sustainable development will increase, allowing for greater
coord.nation among public institutions such as the National Electric Energy Company (ENEE),
Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (COHDEFOR), Ministry of Communications Public
Works and Transportation (SECOPT), National Autonomous Water and Sewage Service
(SANAA), and the Ministry of Natural Resources (SRN), and private institutions involved in
environmental protection.
Under the General Environmental Law economic actors absorb the costs of pollution produced by
their own operations. Under the Law, the problem of waste treatment will be addressed with
support for the construction of municipal treatment systems and the development of "environmental
industries" to offer specialized waste treatment services to the private sector.



53
Annex D
Page 4 of 4
The new economic activities, such as oil refining proposed for the Trujillo area, are subject to the
results of the environmental impact study and mitigation measures.
THE FORESTRY EMERGENCY
The forestry sector is beset by a large-scale crisis that has resulted mainly from the lack of an
adequate framework for supervision to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the forest by private
actors. A forest policy will be formulated and implemented to reorganize state forestry
administration and to review its legal framework; this initiative is aimed at addressing the current
situation, which is marked by the uncontrolled cutting and burning of our forests.
These initiatives are based on the fundamental principles of sustainable resource management,
multiple uses, and sustained yield in areas of interest for forestry. It is our purpose that this policy be
undertaken with the participation of the private sector and with modem and compensatory
techniques for exploiting the forest so that our children and our children's children can enjoy this
natural wealth over time.
Such an approach attributes real value to our forest resources, and will clarify property rights over
tiem. The undervaluing of this resource together with the lack of clear property rights have
contributed to its destruction in previous years. For example, in the forestry sector the Govenmment
will insist on auctioning concessions for logging in the national forests; the illegal clearing of these
forests will no longer be allowed. In addition, management plans will be required for extracing
wood, abiding by the principles of sustainable forest management, and the capacity of COHDEFOR
to supervise such plans will be strengthened. In one essential part of this strategy, the management
of protected areas will be strengthened through the National System of Protected Areas (SINAP),
and community participation in the management of protected areas will be encouraged.
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING: THE PILLAR OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The policies noted above are based on current knowledge of the factors that contribute to the
destruction of our environment To expand and further this knowledge, and to evaluate the impacts
of the policies adopted, the Govenmment will establish a national system for environmental
monitoring in order to give "advance warning" of new problems as they arise and to design as
quickly as possible solutions based on careful studies of the phenomena observed. As a result, a
flexible and effective environmental policy framework will be established.



IIONDURAS                                                                                                                         Annex E
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMEN T PROJECT                                                                                                                        Page I of 4
Project Imnplementation Schedule
F                                                     T29N5                                                                        I,        _ _    200                        t290911 |                                0          t        202                  2002
ID   ..kN.-.                                                                                     )  ~333           I    IO                73 jjio                33    2     3    43~Qj)              ~          3      -F4      I 23
IIONDrlkASI NVIK(NMLNIAL DEVEOPNIENr PROJECT_
I          S4v3 .v1.o3t .0-c., SIICP, SE D    d -FIIlS                                                     *  Jl 3 '95
2          PLANNING AND LEGISLATION
_                S0n .o.-.t b--n SED)P, SF-P AN .3d SHN                                                     *J. I '9
4                E.ol1.....I.4__Xe1 s.d L-d U.. PL.o.g 
5                      E.d1...... p2011411
6                            94-97 E.,fr.        i P...  Ce.
7                                  Updl sd p.bliMh -- -W p31.00k                                    J.j 3 .9                       J   23   f
*                                  D..(2 1.13021.0131,391.l.11I prlcy P.P                                                J.d I ff6  _   S. ,7 'ff
9                                  P        Wp., nd ondsl I    1     l5  05W0.                                               S.". M  _6       Dn 7f
Is                                 Pt    s.d W   .d       o        p1       w..khop.                                              D-. 3            RI. 23 '97
_I                                  UpdW. od W pA.h PAAD                                                                               M.  31 97  M         J_ 2717
_3                                  Upd_  =        h                        _(971                                                215 ff. l 2 -0  D. 17f
14 5                                 4Mr sd p.6h l sososoI.1 .1.0 4 p             . (9                   '7 Ds I7 '77
is_M-9.  W  -h~ tl.                                                       fd   PAAD                 JW 3                      9 #.29S                               D.                                                                                                   U . 
16                           99 -90    . -o.         rb..6. CYds
17                                   pd  sod Wp.6h .IsoWl p o1
la                                                  .. .y                           _                                                                     J I       J9 I"   M         I  *3.
20                        910)1501~p-.   -.k  0.1116  plsolg  .11011h11                                                                                             D. 31 00         M. 31 0
2_                                  UpD/s46p .W p  1. PAAd                                                                                                                         AP. I M         J       M
22                 rp,. .d  a.d                                   soo.1oo  00PoI6 (00)                                                    Od I                                 1p _                           D. 2A 349
24                                  Mesol  nd -5    .. 01. sopkoo.I.oo r      d. PAAD                                                                                            J I                          D_  2999
is                            0-I F.*..L    d         P A A.gCyd.(F   I)
26                         0~~~~~~)94.0 .1. pb46.2  -O..oav. p.oOi.                                                                                                                         m                   J.. M  
27                                  MO               phynd15                                                                 cw I4 p ofw P                                                                                    S_  ii H  9',200
Task                                                     Summary                   *
Milestone                                                Rolled Up Miestone  O



HONDURAS                                                                                                                  Annex E
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                Page 2 of 4
Project Implementation Schedule
_99                 291                1997                1993                19"9                290                 2ml2                292
ID  Tl' 1N_                                                                                  Ql I Q2  Q3 I  Q4 I Ql|2 |1Q3 I Q4  i Ql I Q2   Q  I  Q4 I         Ql                 2 2 I |I 2 Q3 I Q4                                               3 Ql I Q2 I Q3 I Q4 i Ql  Q2 I Q3 I Q4 I Ql I Q2 I Q3 |  Q4 Ql| Qi
2S                               Upd mwd pub6h         -w  tMvsbnrAW p      -p (01)                                                                                                                   0.1 2         o Dw299"
29                               Monmr ond eiuso the mrqdanmo of th. PAAD                                                         J_ S.                                                                             D0  29 1
3.                    S_.i P_g
31                          Hwo     r_a  pobo-                                                Jl 3        _       D 2D . 5
32                         Dfe  sed fid                                                                J_I                                                         inf  '3
33                    Lid                                                                                       '-
_                           Ed.Mbbah wd opa    SECPLANs Lud Use Plavu  Umt                        R1 2 3                                                                                                  J_ M3
35                          P e,e lnd uw sbiely ud bse mno1          uuq                                    Apr 1 394                Doc 2794
34                           dlp   Mu psubbh l base awvon   tduuuusl maps wp_ J.  19                                                                                                                      im  30w
37                    Sm__
SS                          Prepq bbveaty 1ud                                                                     JdoI 94            Du 27 1f
9                           Prsept sobdwu e  bdy                                                                  J.1 9I              D. 27 1
49                          P1rqp   seo     -m     fom a    nw lal rnmr_ga    sIndy                                                  A   1 97            Due 2997
41              N_ Eu1-mm    lw                     Syt_ (SINIA)
42                    Dan wmpud zpemnnd SSNLA                                                               Apt .                                                                                                              J4  29 '
43                    Erhbi" a neogmphe mfm     m systm                                                               Ot 19                         Sep 29 97
44                    Esdbbah a dwxoeu mi  OmnT                                                                       (d I                    J_   30 '7
4S              L_  d R w F_kw 
46                    1zn apemenu bderm SEDA and UNAH                                                     * Od 11M
47                    Hua        S - d                                                                    _s md r_a4u -  W.
4S                          Dm-u *nd eptirt thl kle  mfsumatun 0get system                        Ot 2 VS                                                                                                                      J_ 29  1
49                         Pt5- Mid pulh Irgul inno (96)                                                J I 9    _   Mw 29 -94
so                         LtpJ   d pub i kle  eomnfusbon (99)                                                                                                     J_ I       _   Apr 19
51                          P epmi siidet woeap, fee tfew hb-msz*so of la  mid regudeon                     Ap I 9                   Doe 2794
S2                          Dmal p_ped b_                                                                                 Doet 3      _   Mmn 2317
53                          Pmem and op             l_-         e n                                                            M_Sl 17  _ J. 2717
54              M~~14m  ead f~d
SS                          Papas md o=&1d wmbipa E &g drvlopn ofep-e _                            Od I23S       Dot 299
Tak                                                  Sumnmwy
Mlestoe                                              Roled Up Miestone 



HONDURAS                                                                                                                              Anne E
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                              Page 3 of 4
Project Implementation Schedule
1995                  1996                  MI9                  1998                  1992                                       2001                  2002
ID   TnkNt e                                                                                            I  Q2                     2    3    4        2    3    4        Q 2    Q3                   4             |       Q2   Q3    4         |           4        2    3
56                            Condunt atu&t s fot the adopt   of non, and tenhral st-uda                         J I             M    29d'9d
57                      SW g . eeont tt between SEDA PAPGR and FAIFGR                                                   0.t I 75
58                      Lqa ..rm.
59                            Staithet the .-oronrtutt       AtoretosOhSce OCt 2i95                                                                                                                                                                J.n 29 S1
00                            Strentheat the En- r   ,ntne,l Po-tecuott Office                              (k 2 95                                                                                           J_n  29 '0l
01                      SWs ageemt-tett between SEDA  nd FI (SJ                                                                                                 *  Oct 1 97
02                      Lg1 lealnidg nd whwca l a.sI esino,
63                            Prepe ad conduct - hops o           ottn etol bse tnd regolt-no                                                          not I 97                                         Jun 29 9"
04                r_ea~r    -d PnbIk A e
65                      En- biniag ad pu lle  e         . pr.gr
66                            Devdlop and tnpitttent the tag.  and dcholathcp p,ogr  l96!                   Oct 2 *95                  Jan 2  ff
67                            Dtvdop and tttplttett the tUe-ntt nd scholrshp prog,   (97)                                        Sp 30  6                   Ju  27 97
I8                            Dvlop and npiet       th t.tn and tchol.hp propagt (99)                                                                 Sep29 '97                   Ja2 26'91
69                            Dvelop ad -npietnnt     twe tutg and acho.lthup p,ogtut (99)                                                                                  Sep 21 '      _             Jun 25 '"9
70                            Dvlop and anpietnett the trtan5g ad Wcholrltasp progsn  (00)                                                                                                        Sep 2799                    Jun 23 '00
71                            Deveop nd tpletent ptbbc a -enn sctme,;0                                 Jul 3'95                                                                                                                                     Jan 29 'el
72         ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ASSESSMENT
73                S.gn Weeanett betwett SEDA  nd partcip.trtg" soctotal asetci *e                                        . 1 ,95
74               NY I S 7y .1 Euvle          tunl tlp-t AamasanI
75                     PNeoae technical nd openatottl   tUnce to SEDA amd eetotal gm                        Oct 295                                                          M_ 11 391
76                      Purchase eqa.prtot foe SEDA uad tentool 4aene                                                       Jdi '9                     MY 28 I7
77                      Ptpa   nd convene an entvnooatnt,tal ausetttent congres4                                                                             Jn 1 9    _   Mw 31 9
78                PrA trata        A_ _ nd     _ a. tsd_
79                      Frntary ect.  Ppsne nd conduct t as tnenta and aadtb                                                 Jtd 3 '9                                   Dae k '7
w Mr rnT  aeM ectc- tgpa  an cnduct tad audt                                                                                      Od  I                                      Mw 3k98
*1                      EarV  aw,se- Ppte and conduct nv t              'Anenb and udibt                                                                     JJ- I 9                    J         _         8 "
n2                      Af~vmdui y    s  Ptrepo n and cnduct tav aass nesta and aut sdas                                                                                    Oat I                                       M, M29 80
_3          LOCAL GOVKERBNMUT ENV"R(S9MENTAL MANACEMEINT
Task                                                      Summary
Milestorie                                                Rodked Up Milestone  O



HONDURAS                                                                                                                               Annex E
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                              Page 4 of 4
Project Implementation Schedule
_                                                                                   In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~95  1 996           1997                  199                   1999Im               2000t                 2001                  2002
ID    TkNi.                                                                                           Ql I Q2    3 Q1 I Q4  Ql | Q2 | Q3 | 24 | Ql | Q2 | Q3 |    j4           2 I           Q3    4  2 |3 |4                        2    Q 4  Ql  Q2   Q1 4 | _   Q2 |  3
U4                Stgn agetement between SEDA amd the partompang m-cplt-                                          Jul J3'15
its               M ldpAl E.n'r_a4w.          T-dol A..iat-                                                     _
U                       Prepare and pubish muncctp.l --v eo-t.l profiles nd actob  p-                 Jt4 3 '95                                                                  Jun 26 '
37                     lInpireucot trtrpl    onent  actaOl  plans                                                J   I ff                                                                                                                           J   29 '01
1S                      Dors and nenpiement  ovuonmentd      u tnuntg progrm for w                               Un  '9f                                                D. 26 '97
39                      Prepare and cdct commuty workshops                                                       J   I'                                                                                                                              n 29 01
_0                 E.n...n   IareImrtat
91                      PIontdebu dsfor m aucpal amd co-rrty ntronmentu Itnvesments                    J3lJ'95                                    Dt327'96
92                      Estbhsh a nucro cnlerpr ine of cred  for evunmental tvestments                 JtJ   5      _                                           27 97
93                      Establih th En      erl Ut  at EttS                                            Jt 3 '95                                                   Se 26 '97
U                       Eva-uate the envtonrmental tnvetmentu                                               O  2 '95            __                                Sep 26 '97
95         ADMINISTRATION AND COORDINATION
9f                T    tI   dtu aItn  ' SEDA'. Adminalrattni U.
97                      Provde thcnlnc   nd operatonal assurnne to SEDAS Ad     uustrw Uv t U  ntt9                                                                                                                                                 Jun 29 '01
n1                Projet Cturdiwaan nd M       ag...W
99                      Estabibul ahnd support SEDA's Project Cootduton Unt                            J3                                                                                                                                           Jun 29 n01
in                      Conduct 1996 adts                                                                                    3.1 1 '96 i     Stp 27 '96
101                     Conduct 997 autdI                                                                                                        Jun 30 '97      USp 26 '97
132                     Conduct 1998 ud,ts                                                                                                                             J. 29            S    25
193                      Conduct 1999 .cdcts                                                                                                                                                 J- 29            S" 24
1t4                     Conduct 2000 tudtts .'                                                                                                                                                                   J- 26 ee0 i       s.6  22 '00
535                      Conduc 2001audts                                                                                                                                                                                               J.. 25  li        S.P 21'l
i46                      Retn thne aenv   s of a procurement genc y                 _                      3t                                                                      J-  26 '
Task                                                      Summary
Milestone                                                 Rolled Up Milestone   >



58
HONDURAS                                   Annex E
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                           Appendix
Key Agreements                            Page 1 of 1
ID    Task Name and Description                                       By Date
I    Sign agreement between SHCP, SEDA and FHIS                      July 3, 1995
Sign agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SHCP, SEDA, as the implementing agency, and
FHIS regarding the project implementation arrangements and specifying, inter alia, the
environmental assessment criteria that will be used to select and evaluate the investment
subprojects and the role of SEDA in subproject approval and monitoring.
3    Sign agreement between SEDA, SECPLAN and SRN                    July 3, 1995
Signed agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA, SECPLAN, and SRN regarding their
respective roles in environmental planning, land use planning, and other activities to be
undertaken jointly in this project.
46   Sign agreement between SEDA and UNAH                             October 1, 1995
Signed agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA and UNAH's Juridical Research
Institute on the establishment and operation of an information system for environmental
legislation and on the harrnonization of the existing environmental laws and regulations.
57   Sign agreement between SEDA, PA/PGR, and FA/FGR                  October 1, 1995
Signed agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA, PA/PGR, and FA/FGR establishing
the procedures for the effective coordination of the enforcement of environmental laws and
regulations.
61   Sign agreement between SEDA and EJ/CSJ                           October 1, 1997
Signed agreement satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA and the EJ/CSJ on the design and
implementation of the environmental legislation training program.
73   Sign agreement between SEDA and participating sectoral agencies   October 1, 1995
Signed agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA and each of the agencies participating
in the SINEIA and other components of the project.
84   Sign agreement between SEDA and the participating municipalities  July 3, 1995
Signed agreement, satisfactory to IDA, between SEDA and the municipalities that will
participate in the environmental technical assistance activities financed by the project.



HONDURAS                                                                                Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    Page I of 18
Components Projet Cost Snnmmsry
%      % Total
(LemPia '000)                             (USS '000)                 Foreign     Base
Local       Foreiln        Total         Local      Foreign       Totxd      Exchange   Coats
A. KEuliena Planing ad Legislation
1. Euvftrn_ental and LAnd Use Planning
Enviromna Planning                                                             4,963.1        218.3        5,181.4        539.5        23 7        563 2          4         5
Natural Resources Planning                                                       670.8         53.0          723.9         72.9         5 8          78.7         7         1
LAnd Usc Planning                                                              3,528.2        611.8        4,140.0        383.5        66.5        4500           15        4
Studies                                                                        1,996.4            -        1,996.4        217.0           -        217 0           -        2
Subtotal Environmental and Land Use Planning                                    11,158.5        883.2       12,041 7       1,212.9       96 0       1,308.9          7        11
2. Natkial Environmental Information Si-stem
Sycm  esign, Developmntn and Admnistration                                     3.606 0        337.9        3,944 0        392 0        36.7        428 7          9         4
SINIA Equipnent                                                                  176.9      2,3506         2,527.5         19.2       2555         2747          93         2
Geographic Information System                                                    312 5        829 2        1,141 6         34.0        90 1         124 1        73          1
Documentation Center                                                              49 7        146 3          196 0          54         159           21 3        75          -
Subtotal National Environmenta Information System                                4,145 1       3,6640        7,809.1        4506        3983          8488          47         7
3. Legal and Reglatory Framwork
Hanronization ofLaws and Regulations                                           1.2009         257.1        1,458.0        1305         279          1585          18         1
Norms and Technical Standards                                                    338 1        202 0          540 0         36.7        22 0          58.7        37          1
Legal Enforcemrent                                                             2,645 6        316 8        2,962 4        287 6        344          322 0         11        3
legal Training and Technical Assistance                                        1,368 4        276.0        1,644 4        1487         300          1787          17        2
Subtotd Legal nd Regultory Framework                                             5,552 9       1,051.9       6,604 R        603.6        1143         7179          16         6
4. Training and Public Awareness                                                 2,5743          124.1       2,6984         2798          135         2933           5         3
Subtotal Fnvironmental Planning and Legislation                                    23,430 8      5.723 2       29,154 0      2,546.8       622 1       3,168 9        20        28
B. Fnvironnental Quality Assment
1. National System of Environmental Impact Assessment
Support for DECA                                                                 516.1        811.8        1,327.9         56.1        882          144.3        61          1
Support for DMH                                                                   15 1        201 0          216 2          1 6        21 9          23.5        93          -
Support for DIGEPESCA                                                             21.6        2866           3082           23         312           335         93
Support for DRII                                                                  151         201.0          216 2          1 6        21 9          23 5        93
Support for COHIDEFOR                                                             15 1        201 0          216 2          16         21 9          23 5        93
Suppoil for DGAM                                                                  15 1        201 0          216 2          1 6        21 9          23 5        93          -
Support for CESCCO                                                               411 7       1.639 5       2,051 2         44 8       178 2         223 0         s0         2
Training and Technical Assistance                                              S,1980       2,3184         7,5164         5650        2520          817(0        31          7
Subtotal National System of Environmental Impact Assessment                      6_'07 9       5,860 5       12,068 4       674 8       6370         1,311 8        49        11
2 Pilot Projects for Environmental Impact
Assessment and Audit                                                            3,753 6       2,502 4       6,256 0        408.0        272.0        680 0         40         6
Subtotal F.rvironmwntsl Quality Assessment                                          9,961 5      8,3629        18.3244       1,082.8       909.0       1,991 8        46        17
C. Local Government Environmental Management
1. Technical Assistance for Municipal
Environental Management                                                         8,338 3        8727         9,211.0        906.3         949        1,001.2         9         9
2. Environsental Investments
Municipal and Community Environmental lInestments                             26,863.8            -       26,863.8      2,920.0            -      2,920.0          -       25
Micro-enterprise Line of Credit for Environmental
COSTAB: SUMCOM



HONDtJRAS                                                                             Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Components Project Cost Sumnary                                                             Page 2 of 18
%      % Total
(Lempira '000)                           (USS '000)                Foreign     Base
Local       Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign      Total     Exchange   Costs
Investments                                                                  4,232.0           -        4,232.0       460.0            -        460.0          -        4
Establishment ofthe Enviromnental Unit at FHIS                                4,780.9       278.1        5,059.0        519.7        30.2        5499           5        5
Evaluation ofthe Environmental Investrnents                                   1,288.0            -       1,288.0        140.0           -        140.0                   I
Subtotal Environmental Investments                                             37,164.7        278.1      37,442.8      4,039.6        30.2       4,069.9         1       35
Subtotal Local Government Environmental Management                               45,503.1       1,150.8     46,653.8       4,946.0      125.1       5,071.1         2        44
D. Administration and Project Coordination
I. SEDA's Administrative Unit                                                    531.6           6.7         538.3         57.8         0.7         58.5          1         1
2. Project Coordination and Management                                         10,639.8        391.7      11,031.4      1,156.5        42.6       1,199.1         4        10
Subtotal Administration and Project Coordination                                 11,171.4        398.4       11,569.8      1,214.3       43 3       1,257.6         3        11
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                              90,066.8     15,6353      105,702.0      9,789.9     1,699.5      11,489.4        15       100
Physical Contingencies                                                          3,100.3        781.8       3,882.1        337.0        85.0        422 0         20         4
Price Contingencies                                                             4,501.8        725.7       5,227.5        489.3        78.9        5682          14         5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                               97,669.0     17,142.7     114,811.7      10,616.2     1,863.3     12,479.5        15       109
0
COSTAB: SUMCOM



HONDURAS                                                                              Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   Page 3 of 18
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(Lempira '000)                            (USS '000)               Foreign    Base
Local       Forei4n        Total        Local       Foreign      Total      Exchange   Costs
1. Investment Costs
A Project Coordination Unit Salaries                                    6,519.1            -       6,519.1        708.6           -        708.6          -        6
B. Consultants and Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                                                    16,336.9            -      16,336.9      1,775.7           -       1,775.7         -       15
Intemational Consultants                                                32.2       3,574.2       3,606.4          3.5       388.5        392.0         99        3
SubtotalConsultantsandTechnicalAssistance                              16,369.1      3,574.2      19,943.3       1,779.2      388.5       2,167.7        18        19
C. Studies                                                             11,463.2      2,723.2       14,186.4      1,246 0      296 0       1,542.0        19        13
D. Auditing and Procurement Agency                                      3,680.0            -       3,680 0        400.0           -        400.0          -         3
E. Seminars, Workshops and Scholarships                                 7,381.5            -       7,381.5        802.3           -        802.3          -         7
F. Computer and Office Equipment                                         301.9       4,0105        4,312.4         32.8       4359         4687          93         4
G. Laboratory and Field Equipment                                        256.5       3,116.5       3,373.0         27.9       338.7        3666          92         3
H. Vehicles                                                              291.5       2,210.9       2,502 4         31.7       240.3        272.0         88         2
1. Office Fumiture                                                       326.1             -         326.1         35.5           -         35.5          -         -
J. Promotion Material                                                   1,391 4            -        1,391 4       151.2           -        151.2          -I
K. FHIS Investments
Subprojects                                                         24,379.8             -      24,379.8      2,650.0                  2,650.0          -       23
Subloans                                                             3,680 0            -        3,680.0        400.0           -        400 0          -        3
Subtotal HIS Investments                                               28,059.8            -      28,059.8       3,050 0          -       3,050 0                  27
L. Services and Promotion                                               1,048.8            -        1,048.8       114.0           -         114.0          -        I
M. Environmental Screening of Investment Subprojects                    2,526.6            -        2,526.6       274.6-                   274 6          -         2
Total Investment Costs                                                   79,615.6      15,635 3      95,2508       8,653.9     1,699.5     10,3534          16       90
I. Recurrent Costs
A Incremental Salaries                                                  4,990.1            -        4,990 1       542.4            -       542.4           -        5
B. Operating Costs                                                      2,908.1                     2,908 1       316.1           -        316.1           -        3
C. Travel and Per diern                                                    690             -          69.0          7.5           -           7.5                   -
D. Administration of Investment Subprojects FHIS                        2,484 0            -        2,484 0       270 0           -        270.0           -        2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                     10,451.2           -       10,451.2      1,1360            -       1,136.0         -       10
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      90,066.8     15635.3       105,702.0      9,789.9     1,699.5     11,489.4        15       100
Physical Contingencies                                                  3,100.3        781.8        3,882.1       337.0        85 0        422 0         20         4
Price Contingencies                                                     4,501.8        725.7        5,227.5       489.3        78.9         568 2        14         5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       97,669.0     17,142.7      114,811.7     10,616.2     1,863.3     12,479.5        15       109
COSTAB: SUMEA



HONDURAS                                                                            Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                               Page 4 of 18
Expenditure Accounts by Finanders
(US$000)
Locsi
GOH                   IDA                   Total                      (ExcL     Dutes &
Amount       %       Amount        %       Amount        %      For. Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes
1. Investment Coss
A. Project Coordination Unit Salaries                                  40.2       5.0       763.3      95.0       803.5       6.4                   763.3       40.2
B. Consultants and Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                                                    98.3      5.0       1,867.1    95.0       1,965.4     15.7                  1,867.1      98.3
Intenational Consultants                                                -        -        430.9    100.0        430.9      3.5        427.1         3.7          -
SubtotalConsultants and Technical AssIstance                           98.3       4.1      2,298.0     95.9      2,396.3     19.2       427.1      1,870.9      98.3
C. Studies                                                             85.4       5.0      1,622.3     95.0      1,707.7     13.7        329.5     1,292.9      85.4
D. Auditing and Procurement Agency                                     22.1       5.0       420.3      95.0       442.4       3.5            -      420.3       22.1
E. Serniars, Workshops and Scholarships                                44.4       5.0       842.7      95.0       887.1       7.1            -      842.7       44.4
F. Computer nd Office Equipment                                        36.2       7.0       480.8      93.0       517.0       4.1       480.8        -0.0       36.2
G. Laboraiory and Field Equipment                                      27.8       7.0       369.7      93.0       397.5       3.2       367.3         2.4       27.8
H. Vehicles                                                            20.5       7.0       272.2      93.0       292.6       2.3       258.6        13.6       20.5
1. Office Furniture                                                    37.9    100.0            -         -        37.9       0.3            -       35.3        2.7
J. Promotion Material                                                 166.5    100.0            -         -        166.5      1.3            -      154.9       11.7
KV FHIS Investments
Subproject                                                          136.3       5.0      2,589.9     95.0      2,726.2     21.8                  2,589.9     136.3
Subloans                                                                -        -        404.4    100.0        404.4       3.2           -       404.4          -
Subtotal HIS Investments                                              136.3       4.4      2,994.3     95.6      3,130.6     25.1            -     2,994.3     136.3
L. Services and Promotion                                             129.2    100.0            -         -        129.2      1.0            -      120.2        9.0
M.EnviromnentalScrenoingofInvestmentSubprojects                        14.8       5.0       281.6      95.0       296.4       2.4            -      281.6       14.8
Total Investwent Costs                                                  859.7       7.7     10,345.2     92.3     11,204.9     89.8      1,863.3     8,792.3     549.3
IL Recurret Costs
A. Incrental Salaries                                                 324.3      52.6       292.2      47.4       616.5       4.9            -      585.7       30.8
B. Operating Costs                                                    222.7      62.2       135.2      37.8       358.0       2.9            -      332.9       25.1
C. Travel and Per diemn                                                 2.7      31.9         5.8      68.1          8.5      0.1            -        7.9        0.6
D. AdninistrationofInveslment Subprojects FHIS                        291.7    100.0            -         -       291.7       2.3                   277.1       14.6
Total Recrrent Coasb                                                     41.4      66.0        433.2     34.0      1,274.6     10.2            -     1,203.6      71.1
Total Dbburnent                                                         1,701.1     13.6     10,778.4     86.4     12,479.5    100.0      1,863.3     9,995.8     620.4
COSTAB: EXPFIN



HONDURAS                                                                             Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr                                                                 Page S of 18
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
GOH                    IDA                  Total                        (ExcL     Duties &
Amount       %       Amount        %        Amount        %      For. Exch.    Taxes)      Taxes
A. Environmental Planning and Legislation
1. Enviromnmental and Land Use Planning
Environmental Planning                                                       277.7     43.9        354.4      56.1        632.1      5.1         25.2       569.5       37.5
Natural Resources Planning                                                     4.9       5.7         81.0     94.3         85.9       0.7         6.3        75.2        4.4
LAnd Use Planning                                                             21.2      4.2        478.0      95.8        499.2       4.0        71.5       406.5       21.2
Studies                                                                       11.9       5.0       225.4      95.0        237.2       1.9           -       225.4       11.9
SubtotalEnvironmentalandLandUsePlannlng                                        315.7      21.7      1,138.8     78.3       1,454.5     11.7        103.0     1,276.5      75.0
2. National Environmental Infonatlon Systen
SystcmDesign,DevelopnmentandAdrninietration                                  116.5     24.1        366.3      75.9        482.7       3.9        39.8       417.7       25.2
SINIA Equipment                                                               21.3      7.0        283.2      93.0        304.5       2.4       283.2        -0.0       21.3
Geographic lnformation System                                                  9.1      6.6         128.9     93.4        137.9       1.1        100.0       28.9        9.1
Documentation Center                                                           5.9     25.2          17.4     74.8         23.2       0.2         17.4        4.2        1.6
SubtotalNatonalEnvlronmentallnfonntionSystemn                                  152.7      16.1        795.7     83.9        948.4       7.6       440.3       450.8       57.2
3. Legal nd Regubtory Framework
Hamonization ofLaws and Regulations                                           16.1      9.4         154.9     90.6        171.0       1.4        30.0       133.2        7.8
Norns and Technical Standards                                                  2.1      3.4         61.5      96.6         63.7       0.5        23.8        37.7        2.1
Legal Enforcement                                                            167.5     46.3         194.2     53.7        361.6       2.9        36.6       306.0       19.1
Lel Training and Technical Assistnce                                          94.2     48.1         101.6     51.9        195.8       1.6         33.0      152.8       10.0
Subtotal Legal and Regulatory Framework                                        280.0      35.3        512.1     64.7        792.1       6.3        123.4      629.7       39.0
4. Trauiing and Public Awareness                                               140.5      42.5        190.3     57.5        330.8       2.7         15.1       296.3      19.5
SkoWt l Eus'm-a P-u.ing and Le pbiaho                                            888.8      25.2      2,637.0      74.8      3,525.8     28.3        681.8     2,653.3      190.7
B. EAvlommeuta Qily Aaament
1. Nalomi System of Ea _rommetal Impaet A    _aaet
Suppot for DECA                                                               26.7      16.8        132.2     83.2        158.9       1.3         95.7        52.1      11.1
Supprt for DMH                                                                 1.8       7.0         23.7     93.0         25.5       0.2         23.7        -0.0        1.8
Suport for DIGEPESCA                                                           2.5       7.0         33.8     93.0         36.3       0.3         33.3        -0.0       2.5
Support for DRH                                                                1.8       7.0         23.7     93.0         25.5       0.2         23.7        -0.0        1.3
Su"pt for COHDEFOR                                                             1.8       7.0         23.7     93.0         25.5       0.2         23.7        -0.0        1.8
Support for DGAM                                                               1.8       7.0         23.7     93.0         25.5       0.2         23.7        -0.0        1.8
Suppot for CESCCO                                                             29.8      12.2        213.S     87.8        243.6       2.0        193.3        33.2       17.1
Tra g and Tedical Aaisance                                                    74.1       8.2        834.4     91.3        908.5       7.3        279.5       596.7       32.3
SlbtaiaNalo.alSyxtm ofElnwlrommallmpaetAaenent                                  140.3      9.7       1,309.0     90.3      1,449.3     11.6        697.2       681.9       70.2
2. Pilot Prtfcta for Envromnea Inmact
Aaeaundt nd Audit                                                              37.9       5.0        721.0      95.0       759.0       6.1        303.6       417.4       37.9
Sutota Environmental Q uiy A       _essea t                                       178.2      8.1       2,030.0     91.9      2,208.2      17.7      1,000.7     1,099.3     108.2
C, Locel Government EnKroumeta Management
1. Tehnical Amgiance for Municipal
Managemat                                                                      57.4       5.2       1,046.8     94.8      1,104.2      8.8        102.7       944.1       57.4
2. FAVrVmntl  hsvesneAst
Minicipal nd Commnt Environmental lnvestmts                                  428.0      14.2      2,589.9     85.8       3,017.9     24.2            -     2,867.0      150.9
COSTA1: COMFIN



HONDURAS                                                                                 Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                      Page 6 of 18
Components by Financiers
(US S -000)
Local
GOII                   IDA                     Total                        (Excl.    Duties &
Amount       %         Amount        %        Amount         %       For. Exch.    Taxes)       Taxes
Micro-enterprise Line of Credit for Environrmental
Investments                                                                      312        0.7        464.9      99.3         468A1       38              -       464 9        3.2
Establishment ofthe Environrmental Unit at FIlS                                  37.8       6.4        554.8      93.6         592.6       4.7          32A        530.0       30.5
Evaluation ofthe Environmental Investments                                         7.6       5.0         144.9      95.0        152.6       1.2             -       144.9         7.6
Subtotal Environrnental Investments                                                4766        11.3      3,754.6      88.7       4,231.2      33.9         32.1      4,006.9      192.2
SubtotalLocalGovernmentEnvironmentalManagement                                        534.0      10.0       4,801.4     90.0       5,3354       42.8         134.8     4,951.0      249.6
D. Administration and Project Coordination
l. SEDA's Administrative Unit                                                       27.1      41.3          38.5      58.7         65.6       0.5           0.8        61.2         3.6
2. Project Coordination and Management                                              72.9        5.4      1,271.6      94.6       1,3445       108          45.2      1,231.0       68.3
Subtotal Administration and Project Coordination                                      W000       7.1       1,310.1     92.9       1,410.1      11.3          46.0     1,292.3       71.9
Total Disbursement                                                                   1,701.1      13.6     10,778.4      86.4      12,479.5     100.0       1,863.3     9,995.8      620.4
0%
COSTAB: COMFIN



HONDURAS                                                                              Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                  Page 7 of 18
Project Components by Year -- Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
1995        1996        1997        199S      1999      2000      2001       Total
A. Environmental Planning and Legislation
1. Environmental and Land Use Planndng
Environmental Planning                                                         80.6       102.4       111.5        81.4      99.5      70.2     17.6        563.2
Natural Resources Planning                                                     17.0        31.6         19.6       10.6         -         -         -         78.7
Land Use Planning                                                              54.0       168.0        78.0        48.0      78.0      24.0        -        450.0
Studies                                                                           -       142.0        75.0           -         -         -        -        217.0
SubtotalEnvironmnental ndL ndUsePl nnlng                                         151.6      444.0        284.0       140.0    177.5      94.2      17.6      1,308.9
2. National Environmental Wfornution System
SystemDesignDevelopmnent andAdrministration                                    22.1       111.8        77.0        73.2      73.2      57.2      14.1       428.7
SINIA Equipment                                                                23.3        81.6        79.8        60.5      29.6         -         -       274.7
Geographic Infosmation System                                                     -         6.0        104.7        8.9       2.3       2.3         -        124.1
Documentation Center                                                              -        15.9         5.4           -         -         -        -          21.3
SubtotalNational EnvironmentallnformationSystem                                  45.4       215.3       267.0        142.5    105.1      59.5      14.1        848.8
3. Legal and Reguatory Framework
Harmnonization ofLaws and Regulations                                          60.9        82.0        12.2         3.0       0.2         -         -        158.5
Norms and Technical Standards                                                     -        58 7           -                     -         -         -         58.7
Legal Enforcement                                                              71.2        45.6        45 6        45 6      45.6      45 6     22.8        322.0
Legal Training and Technical Assistance                                           -       100.1        787            -         -         -        -         178.7
Subtotal Legal and Regulatory Framework                                          132.1      286.4        1365         486      45.8      45.6      22.8        717.9
4. Training and Public Awareness                                                   0.8       68.1        64.1         70.9     45.1      44.3         -        293.3
Subtotal Environmental Planning and Legislation                                    330.0     1,013.8       751.7       402.0    373.5    243.6       54.5      3,168.9
B. Environmental Quality Assement
1. National System of Envirommental Impact Assessment
Support for DECA                                                                  -       110.6         7.4         74        7.4       7.4       4.1        144.3
Support for DMH                                                                   -        23.5            -          -         -         -         -         23.5
Support for DIGEPESCA                                                             -        33.5            -          -         -         -         -         33.5
Support for DRH                                                                   -        23.5            -           -        -                             23.5
Support for COHDEFOR                                                               -       23.5            -           -        -         -         -         23.5
Support for DGAM                                                                   -       23.5            -           -        -         -         -         23.5
Support for CESCCO                                                                -        198.4         5.4         5.4      5.4       5.4       3.0        2230
Training and Technical Assistance                                                  -      233.0       301.0       233.0      50.0         -         -        817.0
Subtotal Nafonal SystemofEnviromnentalImpactAssessment                               -       669.5       313.8       245.8     62.8      12.8       7.1      1,311.8
2. Pilot Projects for Environmental Impact
Assessment and Audit                                                                -       170.0       240.0       170.0    100.0         -         -        680.0
Subtotal Environmental QuaIty Assessment                                               -       839.5       553.8       415.8    162.3       12.8      7.1       1,991.8
C. Local Government Environmental Management
1. Technical Assistance for Municipal
Management                                                                      94.0        360.9       296.4       205 8     44.1         -                1,001.2
2. Environmental tnvestments
Municipal and Comrunity Environmental Investments                             613 0      2,280.0        27.0          .         -                          2,920.0
COSTAB: COMYRB



HION DURAS                                                                                    Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL. DEV'ELOPNMENT PROJECT                                                                        Page 8 of 18
Project Components by *'ear -- Base Costs
(USS 000)
Base Cost
1995        1996          1997        1998        1999       2000      2001         Total
NMliLo-enterprise Line ofCredit for Environmental
In%estments                                                                         460 0             -            -                                                     460 0
Establishment of the Environmental tUnit zit I-IIIS                                  231 (        259 3         S9 6             -         -                               F49 9
Evaluation of the Environmental Investments                                           120          880          400              -         -          -         -          1400
Subtotal Environmental Investments                                                    !16 u        26273          126t                  -          -               -       4(0699
Subtotal Local Gosernment Ensironnmental Management                                      1.410,0      2.988 2       423 0        205 8       44 1          -          -       5.071 1
1). Administration and Project Coordination
I SEI)A's Administrative t'nit                                                           14 5          8 0          R0 O         S (                             40           58 s
2 Project Coordination and lManagernnt                                                  2302         221 9        1iY9           15'      15 69     l )49       794         1.199 1
Subtotal Administration and Project (Cordination                                          244          229 9        205 9        lO,s 9      A         I 6 9       3 1 4      1 (2576.
Total BASELINE COSTS 1f984                                                                            5.071 4       1.934 4     1.189'       4  R      41)        1450        114489 4
PhNsical Contingencies                                                                   '2 6        147 7         96 7         c9 s      37 3       21 0        7 2         422 ()
Price Contingencies                                                                      22 4        173s         11 7          Y8 9      80 6       s          2311         568 2
Total PRO.JEI ( COSTS                                                                     . 'u        5,392 5      2, 144 8     1,34- 8      863 I1    -962 1-    I  3       12,479 5
Taxes                                                                                    86 1        278 )        107 9         66 3       46 0)     26 9        9 '         62( 4
Eoreign Exchange                                                                        235 2        877 8        425 6        242 2       80,4       2 2          -        1,863 3
CI,
COSTAB: COMYRB



HONDURAS                                                                                     Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                          Page 9 of 18
Project Components by Year -- Total Including Contingencies
(uSS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1995         1996        1997         1998        1999      2000      2001         Total
A. Environmental Planning and Legislation
1. Environmental and Land tJse Planning
Environmental Planning                                                              856          111.1       123.6         923       1152       83.1      21.3         632.1
Natural Resources Planning                                                           18 1         34.2         21.7        12 0          -                    -          85 9
Land Use Planning                                                                    57.3        182.3        86 5         544        90.3      28 4          -        4992
Studies                                                                                 -        154.1        83.2            -          -         -          -        237 2
Subtotal Environmental and Land Use Planning                                          161.0        481.7        3149         158.6     2055      111.5       213        1,454.5
2. National Environmental Inforrnation System
System Design, Development and Administration                                       23.5        121 3         85 4         82.9       84 8      67.7       17.1        482.7
SINIA Equipment                                                                     24.7          88 5        88 5         68.5       34.3         -          -        304.5
Geographic Information System                                                           -          6.5       116.1         100         2.6       27           -         137.9
Documentation Center                                                                    -         17 2         6.0            -          -                    -          23 2
Subtotal National Environmental Informnation System                                    48 2        233 6        296.1        161 5     121 7      70 4       17 1         948 4
3. Legal and Regulatory Framework
Harmonization of Laws and Regulations                                               64 7          89 0         13 6         3 4        0 3         -          -         1710
Nonns and Technical Standards                                                           -         63 7            -            -         -         -          -          637
Legal Enforcement                                                                    75 6         495          5( 06       5 1 7      528       54.0       27 6         3616               a'
Legal Training and' 'echnical Assistance                                                -        1086         87 2             -         -         -          -         1958
Subtotal Legal and Regulator% Framework                                               14U 2        310 7        1 51 4        551       53         S4 0      27 6         792 1
4 Training and Public Awareness                                                         0 9         73 9         711          80 3      52 3       52 4          -        31n R
Subtotal Ensironmental Planning and Legislation                                            31       I, ( 1)9      8 1 4        4" '       41'2      288 3       fi 9       3 2' 8
B. Ensironroental Qualits Assessment
1. National Sstem of Ensiroinmental Impact .\Asessieint
Support for DI A                                                                        -        12()(          82           X4        Xfi       8          50          1iS9
Support f,-r DMII                                                                                 255             -            --                   -         -          255
Support for 11(FPiSF                                                                    -         ,C 3i3                       -         -                                 3
Support f,r )Ril                                                                                  255                                   - -                                 c
Support for CfIIDF,()                                                                             2 S                   -           -                    -               25
Support for IDf ,A.M                                                                              2S                    -           -         -               -          2
Suppo.I fo ('SC()O                                                                               2152           6()          61        63        64         36          2436
Training and Technical Assistancc                                                       -        252 8        333 7       26410       579           -                   9085
Subtotal National System of Ensironmental Impact Assessment                                -       726 3        347 9        278        72 7       IS          86        1,449 3
2. Pilot Projects for Environmental Impact
Assessment and Audit                                                                      -       184 4        266.1        192 6     l i 58         -          -        759 0
Subtotal Environmental Quality Assessment                                                    -        910 8       614 0        471 2      188.5      15 1        8 6       2.208 2
C. Local Go%ernment EnNironmental Nlanagement
1. Technical A,ssistance for Municipal
Mianagement                                                                           99.8        3916         3286         2332       51.1          -          -       1.104.2
2. Environmental Investments
Municipal and Community Environmental Investments                                   623 8      2,364.1         29 9            -         -          -         -       3,017 9
COSTAB: COMYRT



IIONDtJRAS                                                                            Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 Page 10 of 18
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(tJSS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1995        1996       1997        1998       1999      2000      2001       Total
Micro-enterprise Line of Credit for Environmental
Investments                                                                  468.1           -           -           -         -        -         -        468.1
Establishment ofthe Environmental Unit at FIIIS                               245.2       281.3        66.1           -         -        -         -        592.6
Evaluation ofthe Environmental Investments                                     12.7        95.5        44.4                                                 152.6
Subtotal Environmental Investments                                             1,349.9     2,740.9      1404            -         -        -         -       4,231.2
Subtotal LocalGovernmentEnvironmental Management                                 1,449.6     3,132.5      469.0       233.2      51 1         -         -      5,335.4
D. Administration and Project Coordination
I. SEDA's Administrative Unit                                                    15.4         8.7         8.9         9.1       93       9.5       4.8         65.6
2. Project Coordination and Management                                          244.4       240.7       219.4       178.9    181.7    183.3       960        1,344.5
SubtotalAdmlnistratlonandProjectCoordination                                      259.8       249.4       228.3       188.0    191.0    192.8    100.8         1,410.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                              2,059.7     5,392.5     2,144.8      1,347.8    863.1    496.2    175.3       12,479.5
ah
0C
COSTAB: COMYRT



HONDURAS                                                                              Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 Page 11 of 18
Project Components by Year - brvestmeu/Recurrent Comt
(USS '000)
Totab Incluing ContInencie
If5         1996        1997        199       1999      2000      2001       Tota
A. E         _vlromnet Planning and Leglbatim.
1. Envireunental  nd Land Use Pbnning
Environmental Plnning
Investment Costs                                                                47.8        51.2        60.7        29.7      49.5      17.8        -        256.6
Recwrent Costs                                                                  37.8        59.9        62.9        62.6      65.7      65.4     21.3        375.5
Subtold Environnental Planning                                                     85.6       111.1       123.6       92.3    115.2       83.1      21.3        632.1
Natural Resources Planning
Investment Costs                                                                18.1        34.2        21.7        12.0         -         -        -          85.9
Land Use Planning
Investment Costs                                                                57.3       182.3        86.5        54.4      90.3      28.4        -        499.2
Studes
Investment Costs                                                                   -       154.1        83.2           -         -         -        -         237.2
Subtotal Environnental and Land Use Planning                                        161.0       481.7       314.9       158.6    205.5    111.5       21.3       1,454.5
2. National Environmental Infornmtion System
System Design, Development and Administration
Investment Costs                                                                23.5       106.0        54.2        51.0      52.1      34.3         -        321.1
Recurrent Costs                                                                    -         15.3       31.3        32.0      32.7      33.4      17.1        161.6           a,
Subtotal System Design Development and Administration                              23.5       121.3        85.4        82.9     84.8      67.7      17.1        482.7           '
SINIA Equipment
Investtnent Costs                                                               24.7         88.5       88.5        68.5      34.3         -         -        304.5
Geographic Inforrmation System
Investment Costs                                                                   -          6.5       116.1        10.0      2.6       2.7         -        137.9
Documentation Center
Investment Costs                                                                    -        17.2         6.0           -        -         -         -         23.2
Subtotal National Environmental Information System                                   48.2       233.6       296.1       161 5     121.7      70.4      17.1        9484
3. Legal and Reguatory Framework
Harmonization of Lxws and Regulations
Investment Costs                                                                64.7         89.0        13.6         3.4      0 3         -         -        171.0
Norms and Technical Standards
Investment Costs                                                                   -        63.7            -           -        -         -         -         63.7
Legal Enforcement
Investment Costs                                                                51.4            -          -           -         -         -         -         51.4
Recurrent Costs                                                                 24.2        49.5        50.6        51.7      52.8      54.0      27.6        310.3
Subtotal Legal Enforcement                                                         75.6        49.5        50.6        51.7      528      54.0      27.6        361.6
Legal Training and Technical Assistance
Investment Costs                                                                   -        108.6       87.2           -         -         -         -        195.8
Subtotal Legal and Regulatory Framework                                             140.2       310.7       151.4        55.1      53.1      54.0     27.6        792.1
4. Training and Public Awareness
Investment Costs                                                                    0.9        73.9        71.1        803       52.3     52.4         -        330.8
Subtotal Environmental Planning and Legislation                                       350.3      1,099.9      833 4       455.5    432.5    288.3        65.9      3,525.8
COSTAB: COMYIR



HONDURAS                                                                              Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr                                                                 Page 12 of 18
Projet Componenb by Year- InvestneUt/Recurrent Coab
(USS 000)
Totas Induding Contingencies
1995       1996        1997        19        1999      2000     2001        Totd
8 Envinmental Qualty Asesment
1. Nadonl Sytem of FAviroumnetal Impact Assesument
Support for DECA
Investmnnt Costs                                                                           112.0           -           -        -         -         -        112.0
Recurrant Costs                                                                    -.0                   S.2         3.4      3.6       8.3       5.0         46.9
Subtotl Support for DECA                                                             -       120.0         3.2         3.4       3.6      3.3       5.0        158.9
Support for DMH
Invabtment Costs                                                                            25.5           -           -        -         -         -         25.5
Support for DIGEPESCA
Invesent Costs                                                                     -        36.3                      -         -                   -         36.3
Suport for DRH
Investnent Cods                                                                             25.5                 -          -        -         -              25.5
Support for COHDEFOR
Investment Cods                                                                    -        25.5                       -        -         -         -         25.5
Support for DGAM
Investment Costs                                                                   -        25.5                                 -        -         -         25.5
Support for CESCCO                                                                                                                                                               -_
Investment Costs                                                                   -       209.3           -                     -        -         -        209.3
Recurent Costs                                                                              5.9         6.0         6.1       6.3      6.4       3.6         34.2
Subtotd Support for CESCCO                                                           -       215.2         6.0         6.1       6.3       6.4       3.6        243.6
Training and Technkal Assistance
Investment Costs                                                                   -       252.8       333.7       264.0      57.9         -                 908.5
Subtotal National System of Environmental Impact Assessment                             -       726.3      347.9       278.5      72.7      15A1       8.6      1,449.3
2. Piot Projects for Environmental Impact
Assessaent and Audit
Invesmnt Costs                                                                       -       184.4       266.1       192.6    115.8          -         -        759.0
Subtotal Environmental Quality Asssment                                                   -       910.8       614.0       471.2    1885       151        8.6       2,208.2
C. Local Government Environmental Management
1. Technical Assitance for Municipal
Management
Investmcnt Costs                                                                  99.8       391.6       328.6       233.2      51.1                   -      1,104.2
2. EnvIronmental Investnents
Municpal and Community Environmental Investments
Investffent Costs                                                              537.8     2,188.4           -           -         -        -         -       2,726.2
Recurrent Costs                                                                 86.0       175.8        29.9                -         -             -        291.7
Subtotal Municipal and Community Environmental Investments                       623.8      2,364.1       29.9           -         -         -         -      3,017.9
Micro-enterprise Line of CredIt for Environmental
Investments
Investment Costs                                                               468 1           -           -           -         -        -         -        468.1
Establishment of the Environmental Unit at FHIS
COSTAB: COMYIR



HONDURAS                                                                           Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                              Page 13 of 18
Project Component by Year- nveshnent/Recurmnt Cosb
(USS 000)
Toteb Includin Contingencies
1995       1996        1997       199m       1999     2000     2001       Total
Invesnment Costs                                                            245.2       2S1.3        66.1                                               592.6
Evaluaion of the Environmental Investmenb
Investment Cost                                                               12.7       95.5        44.4          -        -         -        -        152.6
Subtotal Eivilrental Investments                                               1,349.9     2,740.9      140.4           -        -        -                4,231.2
SubtotalLocalGovenumentEnvironmentalManagement                                    1,449.6    3,132.5      469.0       233.2     51.1                  -      5,335.4
D. Amnstration and Project Coordination
1. SEDA's Admnirstrative Unit
Investment Costs                                                                11.2          -           -                                       -         11.2
Recurrent Costs                                                                  4.2        8.7         S.9         9.1      9.3      9.5       4.2         54.4
Subtotal SEDA's Admnistratve Unit                                                 15.4         8.7        S.9         9.1      9.3       9.5      4.2         65.6
2. Project Coordination and Management
Investnent Costs                                                               244.4      240.7       219.4       178.9    181.7    183.3      96.0      1,344.5
Subtotl Admhnstratlon and Project CoordInaton                                      259.8       249.4      228.3      1S.0    191.0    192.2    100.2        1,410.1
Totl PROJECT COSTS                                                                2,059.7     5,392.5    2,144.8     1,347.2    263.1    496.2    175.3      12,479.5
Total Investment Costs                                                          1,907.4    5,069.5     1,947.1     1,178.1    627.9    312.9     96.0     11,204.9
Toal RecurTent Costs                                                             152.2       323.0      197.7       169.8    175.2    177.3      79.4       1,274.6
COSTAB: COMYIR



HONDURAS                                                                                Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   Page 14 of 18
Expenditure Accounts by Yean -- Bse Cosbt
(US$0 O)
Bae cost                                         Foreign Exchange
195         1996        1997        199        1999      2000      2001       Total        %       AAmount
1. Investment Costs
A Project Coordination Unit Salaries                                       59.1       118.6       118.6       118.6    117.6    117.6        58.7        708.6
B. Consutants and Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                                                      207.8       563.8       460.3        348.0    136.9      55.0       4.0       1,775.7         -           -
Intemational Consultants                                                40.0       164.0       104.0         84.0         -        -         -        392.0      99.1        388.5
SubtotalConsultants andTechnicalAssistance                               247.8        727.8       564.3       432.0    136.9       55.0       4.0      2,167.7      17.9       388.5
C. Studies                                                                 95.0       578.0       440.0       220.0    185.0       24.0         -      1,542.0      19.2       296.0
D. Auditing and Procurement Agency                                        116.7        93.3        73 3        33.3      33.3      33.3      16.7        400.0
E. Seminars, Workshops and Scholarships                                   64.5        251.2       293.5       130.8      53.6       8.8         -        802.3         -           -
F. Computer and Office Equipment                                          69.4        115.7       183.6        66.4      31.6       2.0         -        468.7      93.0       435.9
G. Laboratory and Field Equipment                                         24.1        328.3        14.2                     -         -                  366.6      92.4       338.7
H. Vehicles                                                              105.0        167.0           -           -         -         -         -        272.0      88.3       240.3
1. Office Fumiture                                                        22.9         12.5           -           -         -         -                   35.5
J. Promotion Material                                                       7.2        95.8        13.2        15.7      13.2       6.0         -        151 2
K. FHIS Investments
Subprojects                                                            532.0      2,118.0          -            -         -         -        -       2,650.0
Subloans                                                               400.0           -           -            -        -         -         -         400.0         -           -       -
Subtotal HIS Investments                                                 932.0      2,118 0           -                     -         -                3,050.0         -            -
L. Services and Promotion                                                              22.8        22.8        22.8      22.8      22.8         -        114.0
M. Environmental Screening of Investmnent Subprojects                      97.5       144.6        32 5           -         -         -         -        274.6
Total Investrnent Costs                                                   1,841.2     4,773.7      1,756,0     1,039.6    594.0    269.5       79.4      10,3534       16.4     1,699.5
11. Recurrent Costs
A Incremental Salaries                                                     35.7        82.8        942         94.2      94.2      94.2      47.1        542.4         -            -
B. Operating Costs                                                         26.3        52.2        54.9        54.9      54.9      54.9      18.1        316.1
C. Travel and Per diem                                                      0.4         0.8         2.3         0.8       2.3       0.8       0.4          7.5
D. AdninistrationofInvestmentSubprojects FHIS                              81.0       162.0        27.0           -         -         -         -        270.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                       143.4       297.7       178.3        149.8    151.3    149.8       65.6       1,136.0         -           -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                       1,984.6     5,071.4     1,934.4      1,189.5    745.3    4193       145.0      11,489.4     14.8      1,699.5
Physical Contingencies                                                     52.6       147.7        96.7        59.5      37.3      21.0       7 2        422.0      20 1         85.0
Price Contingencies                                                        22.4       173.5       113.7        98.9      80.6      56.0      23.1        568.2      13.9         78.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                        2,059.7     5,392.5     2,144.8      1,347.8    863.1    496.2      175.3     12,479.5      14.9      1,863.3
Taxes                                                                      86.1       278.0       107.9        66.3      460       26.9       9.2        620.4         -
Foreign Exchange                                                          235.2       877.8       425,6       242.2      80.4       2.2         -       1,863.3
COSTAB: EAYRB



HONDURAS                                                                               Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 Page 15 of 18
Expenditure Accounts by Years -- Total Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1995        1996        1997        1998      1999      2000      2001       Total
l. Investment Costs
A Project Coordination Unit Salaries                                     62.7       128.6        131.5       134.4    136.2    139.1       71.0        803.5
B. Consultants and Technical Assistance
Local Consultants                                                     220.6       611.7       510.3       394.3    158.5      65.1       4.8       1,965.4
International Consultants                                              42.5       177.9       115.3        95.2         -         -        -        430.9
Subtotal Consultants and Technical Assistance                           263.1       789.6       625.6       489.5    158.5       65.1       4.8      2,396.3
C. Studies                                                              100.8       627 1       487 9       249 3     214.2      28.4         -      1,707.7
D. Auditing and Procurement Agency                                      123.8       101 3         81 3       378       38.6      39.5      20.2        442.4
E. Seminars, Workshops and Scholarships                                  68.4       272.5       325.5        148.2     62.1      10.4         -        887.1
F. Computer and Office Equipment                                         73.7        125.5      2036         75.3      36.6       2.4         -        517.0
G. Laboratory and Field Equipment                                        25.6       356.2         15.7           -        -         -         -        397.5
H. Vehicles                                                              111.5       181.2           -           -        -         -         -        292.6
1. Office Fumiture                                                       24.3         13.6           -           -        -         --                  37.9
J. Promotion Material                                                     7.7       103.9         14.7        17.8     15.3       7.1         -        166.5
IC FHIS Investments
Subprojects                                                           537.8     2,188.4           -           -         -                  -       2,726.2
Subloans                                                              404.4           -           -           -         -         -        -        404.4
Subtotal HIS Investments                                                942.2      2,188.4                       -        -         -         -      3,130.6
L. Services and Promotion                                                   -        24.7        25.3        25.8      26.4      27.0         -        129.2
M. Environmental Screening of Investment Subprojects                    103.5        156.9        36.0           -        -         -         -        296.4
Total Investment Costs                                                   1,907.4     5,069.5     1,947.1     1,178.1    687.9    318.9       96.0      11,204 9
I. Recurrent Costs
A Incremental Salaries                                                   37.9         89.8       1044        1067     109.1    111.5       57.0        616.5
B. Operating Costs                                                       28.0         56.6        608         62.2     63 5      649       21.9        3580
C. Travel and Per diem                                                     0.4         0.8         2 5         0.8       2.6      0.9       0.5          8.5
D. Administration of Investment Subprojects FHIS                         86.0        175.8        29.9           -        -         -         -        291.7
Total Recurrent Costs                                                      1522        323.0       197.7       169.8    175.2    177.3       79.4       1,274.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       2,059.7     5,392.5     2,144.8     1,347.8    863.1    496.2    175.3       12,479.5
COSTAB: EAYRT



IIONDURAS                                                                                                             Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                  Page 16 of 18
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(C'SS 'th))
Suggested Allocation of
Credit Proceeds                                                                                                                          Credit Amounts
Disbursement                 Total Project Cost                Average Disbursement %                                 IUnallocated                           Allocated
Credit Amount          %              Total          Local      F_orign         Total     local    F'oreign        Total        Total      Local    Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign
A  %ehicles and equipment a                                  I  1,                   >' '? 'n                              Ii ;' 7                  I 11      l            i                                   at            3                           135
13 Furnitwu i
C Consultants Services                                       44  AF1                                          3 c  l                           ;                      J                  3b                                                              73'A1 
D  Training b                                                  S'4                OC            3V S !71 -,                                 '                     -         82           'C .       '' 1                     S'            s' A
F Pto(ectyCxnaaig        i                                     A  A                             w4             3; c    F1 c  bc                                                                        . C at                              'JS 4  A
F Investment Subprojects
Subproject- executed b' F I  ;**                                                                            7',.                                 Q O 9                                77'
Sul,ans                                                     34'                              A A 4          4                                                              14  4      1-4  I     I       -                 4  I3        3-3 
Subtotal Investment Subprojects                                ,,J4                            .130          3 i4  1                        - h                             'J 4         F    S       F                   ' i4 54s
G Incremental Recurrenti pend.turces                           4:12                                         344                             1      44 1                     4A1 *           1                     -          4>17          4 -
RI FFDlS Adminnstrati,n                                                                         '1 7           91 7                         -
U'nallocated                                                    323 4
Total                                                        1.7'F A               SPA 4      12' 47A5       I J   ?           3 l 5 '                             .      (I778 4       32'3 4     '7           nSo        1<433 I        X     a7,     1,807 4
Credit amounts financed bF IDA
'a Includes furniture, compute and office equipment, and laboratory and field equipment
lb Includes ttanel and per diem
COSTAE ALLOCF



HONDURAS                                                                                     Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                        Page 17 of 18
Procurement Arrangements
(USS W000)
Procurement Method
iAol          lUmted
Competitive    Internatlonal    International      L1cal         Direct         Financial      Consulting
Bidding        Bidding         Shoppinr        Shopping    Contracting   Intermediaris         Services     N.B.F.        Total
A Vehicies, Computer. Office Equipment,
Laboratory nd Field Equipment/a                                            60.4           905.4            181.1           604                                                          -         1,207.2
(56.1)         (842.0)          (168.4)        (56.1)                                                                  (1.122.7)
B. Furniture                                                                                   -                -              -             -                 -                      37.9            37.9
C Consultants, Tcchnical Assistance and Studies /b                                             -                -                            -                 -        4,842.8      295.8         5,138.6
(4,622.2)                 (4,622.2)
D Trining /c                                                                                                           -                                                  887.1          -           887.1
(842.7)                   (842.7)
E. Project Coordinating Unit /d                                                                                                -              -                 -          03.5          -           803.5
(763.3)                   (763.3)
F. ncremental Recurrent Expenditures/c                                         -                -                -          84.8          763.5                 -             -      134.6           983.0
(43.3)       (389.9)                                                     (433.2)
G. Environmemtal Investments (FPIS)
Subprojects /f                                                          817.9                -                -        1,090.5         817.9                  -             -          -         2,726.2
(777.0)                                       (1,036.0)       (777.0)                                                   (2,589.9)
Subloan                                                                      -               -                -              -             -             404.4              -          -           404.4
(404.4)                                    044
H. Administration of Invcstment Subprojects (FHIS)                                              -                                             -                 -              -      291.7          291.7
Total                                                                       878.2           905.4            181.1        1,235.7        1,581.4            404.4        6,533.4      760.0        12,479.5
(833.1)         (842.0)          (168.4)      (1.135.4)      (1,166.9)          (404.4)      (6,228.2)          -      (10.778.4)
Notc: Figures in parenthesis arc the rcspcctive amounts financed by IDA
\a LIB for USS0.5 million, and local and intcrnational shopping for about USS3.0 million.
\b Includes services and pronotion, and promotion material.
\c Includes travel and per diem for training
\d Includes PCU salries, Auditing and Procurement Agency
be Inludes incremental recurrent salaries, operating costs and office materials
\f Subprojects executed by FHIS
COSTAB: PROMTH



1IOND 'DRAS                                                                             Annex F
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'T                                                                 Page 18 of 18
Procurement Accounts by Yearn
(uSS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1995        1996        1997        1998       1999      2000      2001       Total
A. Vehicles. Computer, Office Equipment.
Lahoratory and Field Equipment a                                     210 8       662 9       219.3         75 3     36 6       2.4                 1,207.2
B Furniture                                                            24 3        13.6           -            -        -         -                   37 9
C Consultants, Technical Assistance and Studies b                     599.0      1,.03 5     1,270 8       820.3    453 1     167 0      25.0       5,138 6
D Training c                                                           68 4       272 5       325 5        148.2     62.1      10.4         -        887.1
F Project Coordinating Unit cd                                         62.7       128.6       131.5        134.4    136.2    139 1       71.0        803.5
F. Incremental Recurrent Expenditures 'e                               66 2       147 2       167.8        169 8    175.2    177.3       79 4        983.0
C. Environmental Investments (FHIS)
Subprojects /f                                                      537.8     2,188.4                 -               -         -         -      2,726 2
Subloans                                                            404.4           -                                                              404.4
Subtotal Environmental Investments (FIIIS)                            942.2      2,188.4          -            -        -         -         -       3,130.6
H. Administration of Investment Subprojects (FHIS)                     86.0       175.8        29.9            -        -                            291.7
Total                                                                2,059.7     5,392.5     2,144.8      1,347.8    863.1    496.2      175.3      12,479.5
\a LIB for US$0.5 million, and local and international shopping for about USS3.0 million.
\b Includes services and promotion, and promotion material.
\c Includes travel and per diem for training                                                                                                                                      0"
\d Includes PCU salaries, Auditing and Procurement Agency
\e Includes incremental recurrent salaries, operating costs and office materials
TfSubprojects executed by FHIS
COSTAB: PROYRS



77
Annex G
Page I of 11
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE HONDURAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Background
1.    Social Investment Funds (SIFs), such as the Fondo Hondurefio de Inversi6n Social
(FHIS), were created in Latin America and the Caribbean to alleviate the impact on the poor of
the reduction in income and employment caused by the debt crises and the structural
adjustment and reform measures taken to lay the basis for renewed growth. The creation of
S[Fs responded to the lack of capacity of traditional social sector mmnistnes to meet the
extraordinary and complex demand for social infrastructure generated as a result of structural
adjustment. Unlike line ministries, SIFs are financial intermediaries with limited but high
caliber technical staff to enable expedient public investment in an efficient and targeted
manner. In addition, central ministries employ SIFs as executing agencies to contract out works
such as schools and health centers. A key attribute of the demand driven nature of SIFs is the
high degree of involvement by municipalities, communities and NGOs. The efficiency and
success of the SIFs depend on a pnrvate sector management style, exception from public sector
recruitment and salary limitations from the annual government budget cycle, and from
government procurement and disbursement procedures.
Origin and Institutional Development
2.    In Honduras the FIES is a demand driven financial intermediary which depends on the
private sector and NGOs for the production of infrastructure for municipalities and
communities. The FHIS was created by legislative decree in February 1990 as a diversified
agency of the Office of the President for a period of three years, subsequently extended to 7
years until 1997. Finally, in December 1994, Law 153-94 was enacted extending the life of the
FHIS for 12 years. The performance of the FHIS thus far has been extraordinary. Since its
inception FHIS management has provided agile and effective leadership and made the
necessary adjustments to maintain an efficient operation that by an large met its objectives.
However, the change in administration in January 1994 has brought new management to FHS
which has required a period of adjustment. The GOH has reaffirmed its commitment to FF1S
by extending its mandate three years until April, 1997. The change in administration provides
an opportunity to conduct analysis on the performance of FHIS focused principally on the
sustainability of FHIS subprojects and on the administration of the institution. This analysis
will be conducted in conjunction with the preparation of the third IDA financed FHIS
operation.
IDA Credits
3.    IDA has provided two credits to FHIS which accounts for approximately 25% of total
FHIS revenue since its creation. In February 1991 a Social Investment Fund credit (No. 2212-
HO) of SDR 14.3 mnillion (US $20 million) was approved to finance FHIS and other priority
social sector activities (food coupon pilot, Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS),
sector planning). In May 18, 1992 a credit (No. 2401-HO) for SDR 7.4 million (US $10.2



78
Annex G
Page 2 of 11
million) was made to help finance a range of small scale subprojects in four categories: (i)
social infrastructure (54% of total subproject cost), economic infrastructure (13%) and (iii)
social services (22%), and (iv) credit to the informal sector.
Objectives
4.    FHIIS' primary objective is to promote improved living conditions for disadvantaged
groups in rural and urban areas. FI{S provides grant and credit financing for the execution of
social and economic subprojects for the purpose of increasing the productivity, level of
employment, income and contributing toward meeting basic needs of the poor in Honduras.
This relatively broad mandate has enabled FHIS to provide grant financing for the production
of infrastructure ranging from latrines to schools and generate credit programs for the informal
sector for financially viable small scale subprojects.
Organization
5.    FHIS is currently undergoing some institutional changes. These changes are being
closely followed by the Association in the context of this project and a third FHIS operation,
now under preparation. To this date, however, FHIS is headed by an Administrative Council
composed of the Ministers of Planning, Labor and Social Welfare and Finance, the President of
the Congress, three civilian representatives, including an NGO representative, a presidential
delegate, and the FHIS' Executive Director. This council is supposed to meet every three
months and is responsible for setting policies and approving regulations. Subproject approval is
the responsibility of an Operations Committee which is presided by the Executive Director and
composed of FIBS' division chiefs. In addition, the FIlS has opened up the operations
committee to intersectoral ministries such as the SEDA.
6.    The internal organization of the FHIS is presented in Figure 1. The FHIS is headed by
an Executive Director who is a cabinet level position and depends directly from the Presidency.
Six administrative support units (data management, legal, fundraising, public relations,
personnel, programming and contractor control) support the technical units responsible for
receiving, promoting, and evaluating subprojects and the units responsible for the supervision
of subproject execution. Subprojects are submitted by the municipalities to FHIS through the
subproject reception unit of the subproject operations unit. Subprojects are evaluated by the
evaluation unit and if they are considered feasible they are submitted to the subproject
committee for consideration and subsequent approval. The Control and Monitoring
Department takes over the supervision of the subproject through three supervision units. This
office is also responsible for receiving the work from the contractors and then tuming over the
infrastructure to the local government.
7.    Absolute and relative levels of staffing for the different units which correspond to the
subproject cycle is a critical consideration to maintain subproject quality and efficient
processing. A particular concem is the capacity to supervise ongoing subprojects. The Office
of Control maintains a flexible hiring practice and presently has six permanent supervisors and
28 contract (year-long) inspectors. This practice makes it possible to maintain the desired ratio
of subprojects to supervisors of 40. The profile of the professionals that supervise subprojects
has been limited to civil engineers. With the introduction of the environmental screening



79
Annex G
Page 3 of 11
procedures as well as the pilot environmental subprojects, FHIS will hire up to six
environmental specialists as needed. It is expected that the diversification of the supervision
staff will permit FHIS to carry out a more effective supervision.
rADMINISTRATIVE 
| COUNCIL    l
I         INTERNALKN  AUDIT
|EXECUTIVE l
|DIREC TOR l
OPERATIONS
COMMITTEE
ADMINISTRATIVE                    SUBPR JECTS                   MONITORING AND
SUPPORT UNITS                    DEPARTMENT                  CONTROL DEPARTMENT
* Adnuinistration
* Contractor Control
* Data Managenent
* Fundraising             COMMUNITY           ENVIRONMENT
* Legal                  PARTICIPATION
* Personnel
* Programming & Analysis
Figure 1: Organizational Structure of FHIS
8.     The current structure of the FHIS Office of Subproject Development reflects two new
initiatives, community participation and environment. The community participation unit
oversees the sustainability of subprojects while the environment unit is responsible for the new
environment window as well as incorporating environmental considerations into the FHIS
portfolio. The sustainability and environmental agenda in the FHIS were part of the design of
the IDA II credit to FillS. However, it has been evident that in order to incorporate
environmental and community participation objectives in an institution such as the FHIS it is
necessary to have an explicit strategy which is fully integrated in the subproject cycle.
Subproject Programming and Implementation
9.     The FlES finances subprojects according with eligibility criteria and evaluation
parameters established in an Operational Manual approved by IDA under its first credit to
FHIS. Investments are financed in the areas outlined below, according to the following
standardized menu of subprojects:
(a)    Social infrastructure subprojects. Includes (i) the rehabilitation, maintenance,
and construction of pre-primary and primary schools, health centers and posts,
water and sewerage systems and (ii) maintenance of rural roads.
(b)    Economic infrastructure subprojects. Includes the financing of (i) public works
and simple infrastructure such as repairs and construction of canals and
ditches, construction of gutters and sidewalks, and reforestation; and (ii)



80
Annex G
Page 4 of 11
subprojects of special interest to project cultural heritage and ethnic minorities,
provided that subprojects in either category generate significant employment at
reasonable costs.
(c)    Social services subprojects. Includes programs for nutrition, primary health
care, vaccination, primary and pre-primary education (such as school
breakfasts), nutrition assistance to pre-school age children, early stimulation,
training of midwives, health promoters, and community health guardians,
provision of furniture, teaching matenrals and small libraries to primary schools.
(d)   Informal Sector Subprojects: The FHIS makes funds available to NGOs for
lending at market oriented rates to help expand small and micro-enterprises in
the productive and service sectors. Terms and conditions for financing of
informal sector subprojects are detailed in the Operational Manual.
10.   The environmental subprojects, currently under preparation, are expected to focus on
urban issues and rural issues that meet the implementation criteria of FHIS subprojects (short
execution of 6-8 months). Environmental subprojects will finance four principal areas: (i)
urban and community parks; (ii) solid and liquid waste management; (iii) protection of water
sources; (iv) soil protection and erosion control; (v) biodiversity conservation; and (vi) energy
generation and conservation.
Sources of Financing
11.   FF1S finances its operations through donations or soft loans from donors, multilateral
and bilateral agencies. Counterpart financing from the GOH finances the FHIS operating cost
and municipalities contribute resources indirectly by leveraging FHIS funds. Donors have the
flexibility of targeting their contribution to the FHIS by specifying the window or even the
specific subproject that they wishes to finance. This provides an efficient financial
intermediation of development assistance. From 1990 to December 31, 1993 FHIS received
approximately US $83.3 million equivalent. From April 1994 to April 1997, FHIS is projected
to receive approximately US $100 equivalent (see table).
Major Sources of Funding 1990-1994
Source                             US$ million equivalent
IDA                                        20.7
Interamerican Development Bank             20.6
KfW                                        14.5
Government of Honduras                     13.2
USAID                                      8.7
Other                                      5.5
TOTAL                                      83.3
Source: FILS
12.   Besides the extemal sources of financing, the GOH, through the Ministry of Finance
(SHCP), transfers resources to the FHIS to finance the operations cost (9%) plus an additional
transfer of 10% as counterpart funds. In the period 1994-97 it is expected that central



81
Annex G
Page 5 of 11
govemment, line ministries, municipal govemment and beneficiaries will contribute
approximately 25% of the total resources of FHIS. The remaining 75% originate from
multilateral and bilateral development credit institutions and donors. FHIS is currently
undergoing an active replenishment and is seeking to meet commitments to satisfy the base
1994-97 operations program of US $117 million equivalent. As of June 1994 approximately
US $101 million equivalent had been identified as potential resources entering the FHIS from
1994- 1997.
FHIS Expected Sources of Funding 1994-1997 (June, 1994)
Source                              US$ million (equivalent)
IDA                                           25
Interamenrcan Development Bank                15
KfW                                           25
FIDA                                         18.75
OPEC fund                                     5
UNDP                                          0.5
UNICEF                                        2
CIDA                                          2
SECPLAN - COSUDE                              5
Govemment of Honduras                         28
TOTAL                                       101.25
Application of Funds
13.   From April 1990 to March 1994 the FFHS has financed 5,469 subprojects for a total
amount of approximately US $91.1 million. The average size of subprojects has increased
from US $4,360 in 1990 to US $20,300 in 1993. Subprojects are typically executed in less
than 8 months. Ninety-four percent of the application of funds is done on a grant basis and the
remaining 6% correspond to credits to informal sector business persons. Infrastructure
operations correspond to 75% of FHIS activities.
FHIS 1990-1994: Total Subproject by Type
Number of Subprojects  Total Cost       Disbursed
Number       %       US$      %      US$       %
million        million
Infrastructure             4,479        82      69     75%    60.1    76%
Basic needs                936          17      17.3    19%    14.8    19%
Institutional Strengthening  2        <1%       0.2    <1%      <1      <1%
Production                  61          1%      5.7    6%       4.4     6%
TOTAL                      5,478               92.1            79.3
Source: FlUS, December 31, 1993
14.   The definition of the application of funds to subprojects is determined by three factors:
(i) poverty targeting, (ii) sectoral earmarking, and the (iii) nature of the transfer as either
donation or credit. However, the principal factor which defines the application of funds is the
effective demand of the community for subprojects. All applications for grant financing from
the FIRS must be endorsed by municipalities. To a significant extent the demand from a



82
Annex G
Page 6 of 11
community for a given subproject is shaped by the promotion of contractors eager to produce
infrastructure.
15.   The targeting of FHIS funds to beneficiaries is done based on a poverty index at either
the departmental or municipal level. The poverty index is a population adjusted index which
takes into account three indicators with different relative weight: child malnutrition (30%),
access to potable water (50%), and access to sewerage (20%). Municipal targeting establishes
a maximum amount that may be invested to each of the 291 municipalities while the
departmental cnrteria take a more regional approach by distributing the resources to each
department (18), and the municipalities within the department are free to submit proposals
based on the total amount allocated to the department.
16.   Sectoral, or subproject type, earmarking is done by directing investments to specific
categories or subprojects. The sectoral definition of the FHIS portfolio is also affected by the
role the FHIS plays as a financial intermediary for line ministries. For example, agreements
with the Ministries of Health and Education to build health posts and schools tend to define the
FIRS profile. More specific sectoral targeting may occur if donors select specific subprojects
to be financed through the application of donations or credits. For example, as a response to
the cholera problem of the early 1 990s there has been a significant initiative by donors to
finance latrines.
17.   The FHIS has a credit mechanism to reach the informal sector in sustainable manner
through its Programa de Apoyo al Sector Informal (PASI) program. The PASI works
principally through NGOs who broker the credits to the community through community banks.
The NGOs are given a margin of 10% of the value of the credit for administrative expenses.
The NGOs then lend to micro-enterpn'ses or community banks with amortization periods of
between 6 and 12 months with a 3 month grace. The interest rate is set approximately 2 points
below market rate. The PASI is working with 48 PVOs as financial intermediaries. In the
period from November 1991 to November 1993 the PASI has made 8,900 credits with a
default rate of 4.6%.
18.   Projected application of funds for the period from April 1, 1994 to April 1, 1997 are
expected to be US $117 million or approximately 4,600 subprojects with an average cost of US
$26,500. Infrastructure makes up approximately 60% of total investment and remains the
principal application of funds for the FHIS.
FHIS 1994-1997
Projected Total Base Program by Subproject by Type
Subproject Type         US$ million equivalent    %
Infrastructure                 56.1            48
Basic needs                     28.6           24
Community Development           11.2            9
Production                      11.5           10
Environment                     10.0           9
TOTAL                          117.0           100
Source: FHIS



83
Annex G
Page 7 of 11
Sustainability
19.   The sustainable flow of benefits from FHIS infrastructure is an essential element of
measuring the success of the Fund in meeting its objectives. FH1S management has recognized
that sustainability has not been addressed with sufficient emphasis for some subprojects in the
first four years of the fund's existence. With the cooperation of KfW the FHIS is taking steps to
address this situation. The sustainability strategy that is being launched includes the creation
of a community participation unit that will work with PVOs and NGOs to confirm and
strengthen the commitment of the community and the municipalities to the subprojects that are
submitted to the FIS. The PVOs and NGOs will work with the community prior, during and
after the completion of the work. Through this participatory approach it is expected to reverse
a tendency of lack of ownership and corresponding lack of responsibility for FHIS financed
work. The cost generated by the community participation strategy will be included as part of
the subproject cost and it will not exceed more than 5% of subproject cost. In order to
reinforce the participatory approach the FHIS has signed an agreement with the Association of
Municipalities of Honduras (AMHON) in order to define a matching grant mechanism
whereby the municipalibes can leverage FHIS resources by cofinancing infrastructure with
FHIS resources. The matching grant scheme would favor the poorest municipalities by
commnitting a greater proportion of FHIS resources for every Lempira committed relative to
wealthier municipalities.
Environmental Considerations
20.   FHIS is the single largest provider of municipal infrastructure in Honduras. The
magnitude and diversity of its portfolio places it in a privileged position to have an important
positve impact through an environmentally sound development agenda. The capacity of FHIS
to establish good practice in the provision of environmentally sound local infrastructure is
strengthened by its collaborabon with SEDA. SEDA will analyze and propose changes to the
structure and procedure of the FHIS environmental initiative so that it fulfills the objectives of
the environmental impact regulatory framework. In addition, the SEDA will have a seat in the
FHIS operabons committee which is responsible for approving all FHIS subprojects. This will
permit SEDA to participate in the definition of local environmental public infrastructure being
financed by FHIS. Lastly, the FHIS environmental office will be part of the SINEIA which will
pen-nit FHIS and SEDA to share environmental and investment information.
21.   FHIS has proposed a three pronged approach to guarantee the environmental quality of
the subprojects that it finances: (i) sound technical specifications of subprojects, (ii) sound
incentive structure for contractors to follow environmental mandate, and (iii) systematic
environmental screening of subprojects to determine the appropriate level of environmental
impact which must be carried out. This strategy has given elements as described below:
(a)    Creation of an environmental unit. FHl[S is currently conforming an
environmental unit composed of one experienced FEHS staff, a part time
environmental expert on retainer and a secretary. In addition, the FHIS will
hire as contract employees environmental specialists to serve as resource
persons in the evaluation and supervision of the FHIS portfolio including the
environmental subprojects. The incorporation of non-engineers to the FHIS



84
Annex G
Page 8 of 11
technical staff will broaden the perspective during subproject evaluation and
supervision.
(b)    Sound technical specifications. FHIS finances subprojects that are based on
approved technical specifications. These technical specifications establish the
dimensions, type of material and inputs as wel! as the construction processes
that define the production of a given subproject. By controlling the technical
specifications the FHIS is guaranteed to satisfy objectives such as the labor
content and functonal characteristics of the infrastructure. FHIS management,
through the environmental unit, has realized the potential benefit of reviewing
the technical specifications to incorporate environmental considerations through
three non mutually exclusive actions: (i) improve the technical specification to
rationalize the material inputs, (ii) modify the specification of the subproject to
include measures that prevent environmental degradation, and (iii) modify
technical specifications to incorporate recycled matenral into the works.
(c)    Environmental incentives for contractors. Sound incentive structures for
contractors to comply with the environmental initiative are essential in
transforming policy into action. The project will provide technical assistance to
define mechanisms to institutionalize environmental quality as part of the
quality control criteria of any Fl-US work. The environmental unit has
identified four points in the subproject cycle where incentives will direct the
performance of contractors into environmentally sound practice: (i) entry of
contractors into FHIS roster by obligatory environmental certification of
contractors, (ii) entry of potential subproject to FHIS by refusing subproject
designs that fail to incorporate all environmental aspects into subproject
proposal, (iii) during execution through the inclusion of environmental criteria
during the supervision of construction, (iv) upon conclusion of the work
through inclusion of environment cnrteria to define the merit of the last payment
("quality of work") which corresponds to 5% of the value of the contract.
(d)    Environmental training for FHIS staff. FH[S supervisors and selected
administrative staff will receive 64 hours of training on integrating
environmental considerations into the subproject cycle. The seminar will
explain the new environmental initiative as the FHIS screening process as well
as the administrative modifications that help increase the environmental quality
of FHIS subprojects. The consultants imparting the seminar will produce
practical guidelines to be used by participants. Supervisors entering the FHIS
will be required to see the videotaped summary of the course as well as
familiarize him/herself with the course material. The course will be repeated
12-18 months after the initial seminar in order to maintain the technical
competence to FItS supervisors.
(e)    Systematic environmental screening of subprojects. FHIS management has
proposed to adopt environmental screening procedure for all subproject
proposals that are submitted for consideration of FHIS for potential financing.
SEDA is collaborating with FHIS to design and implement a strategy that



85
Annex G
Page 9 of 11
satisfies the LGA including decision rules defining when a subproject requires
a full EIA which must be reviewed by SEDA. The subcomponent will finance
technical assistance to define a scheme to systematically screen subprojects
according to their potential negative environmental impact. Under the
proposed scheme all subprojects will fall in one of two environmental impact
assessment categories, as described in the regulations of the SINEIA.
Category I includes subprojects that do not require and environmental impact
assessment, but require an environmental analysis using procedures established
by SEDA. Category n1 includes subprojects that require a formal EIA, and
recognized three levels as indicated below:
Level 1: Subprojects with a high level of environmental risk that require a full
EIA.
Level 2: Subproject with an intermediate level of environmental risk that
require an intermediate EIA.
Level 3: Subprojects with minimal environmental risks but that still require an
EIA to cover specific negative effects on the environment.
22.   The systematic screening of the 4,225 subprojects to be financed by FHIS from August
1994 to April 1, 1997 would have an incremental cost to the FIRS administrative cost
equivalent to approximately 0.25% of the portfolio. Thus incorporating the environmental
screening is expected to increase the administrative cost of the FHIS from 9.4% to 9.7%. The
incremental cost in person days to carry out the agenda is approximately 6 person days for
subprojects that require an EIA, two-person days for subprojects with mild environmental
impact and one-person day for subprojects that have virtually no impact on the environment.
This is equivalent to approximately US $65 per subproject for a total of US $275,000.
Informal Sector Support Program
23.   In 1990, FHIS established the PASI to provide credit to small and micro-enterprises
through qualified NGOs and technical assistance when appropriate. PASI started operating with a
US $4.8 million grant from the GOHI, the Govemment of the Neatherlands and the IDA. As of July
1, 1994, PASI had approved 56 credits to intermediary NGOs totalling Lps. 40 million (US $4.4
million); 39 of them are still operating. These credits financed approximately 12,000 micro-
enterprises out of an estimated 250,000 currently operating in Honduras. An estimated 1,638 direct
permanent jobs were generated as a result of the program which operated through 32 intermediate
NGOs.
24.   Financing terms and conditions are included in the Operational Manual of the FHIS and are
summaized below:
Financial Arrangements
(a) Arrangements whereby an NGO acts on behalf of FI{IS to undertake lending to informal
sector beneficiaries according to terms and conditions spelled out in the Operational
Manual.



86
Annex G
Page 10 of 11
Principal Financing Conditions
(a) Loan principal and interest to be repaid to FHIS (or successor of FHIS) according to an
amortization schedule to be specified.
(b) NGO will be fully responsible for debt service and required to absorb any loan losses.
(c) Use of funds by NGO for purpose other than those agreed with the FHIS results in
automatic recall of funds by FHIS.
Approval
(a) Financial Arrangements between FHIS and NGO approved by Operations Committee of
FHIS.
(b) Individual subloans approved by management committee of NGO.
Target Beneficiaries
(a) Small and micro-entrepreneurs in productive and service sectors located in marginal urban
zones and rural zones with high unemployment rates and low income who do not have
access to formal credit at present. Examples of beneficiaries are shoemakers, handicraft
makers, market or street vendors of food, clothes, utensils, mechanics, hairdressers, small
tire repair shops, small farmers, etc.
(b) Operational Manual defines small and micro-enterprises based on subproject amount and
includes other parameters to define target beneficiaries such as maximum number of
employees, sales per month, according to sectors.
Requirements for Participating NGOs
(a) Must be properly registered legally.
(b) At least three years experience in their field.
(c) Adequate administrative and financial structure to undertake loan appraisal, recovery, and
supervision.
(d) Satisfactory recovery on existing portfolio (at least 95 percent).
(e) Adequate capacity to provide technical assistance to beneficiaries.
(f) Quarterly financial reporting to FHI1S.
(g) Audit by extemal, private, independent auditors.
Subproiect Cn'teria
(a) Loans to final beneficiaries to be appraised according to technical and financial criteria
appropriate for this type of operation.
(b) Subprojects to promote individual and group savings.
Size of Loans
(a) Size of loans to intermediary NGOs: From US $50,000 to US $167,000, in local currency.
(b) Maximum size of subloan to final beneficiaries:US $6,000 in local currency.
Lending Tems
(a) Repayment Period: in accordance with the type of activity being financed (expected to vary
between 3 months for working capital to 24 months for equipment).
(b) Interest Rate: market rate to be applied by NGO, adequate to cover lending and recovery
costs and ensure reasonable net income, as agreed with FHIS.



87
Annex G
Page 11 of 11
(c) Net income from lending operation to be shared between NGO and FHIS according to a
proportion established between FHIS and NGO.
(d) Solidarity group guarantee, (or in some cases fiduciary guarantee) required from
beneficiary.
Grants for Technical Assistance
(a) Technical assistance to be provided by NGOs to final beneficiaries in simple
administrative, accounting, and technical aspects.



88                       Annex H
Page 1 of 1
SECRETARIA DE HACIEN DA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa,D.C.   1 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE 1994           C?-1100
T ngeniero
EDILBERTO F.SEGURA
The World Bank
Director Country Depsrtament IT
Latin America And Caribbean Regional
..Office 1818 H. Street, N.E.
Wa:sh;ngton,D.. C  20433--
U.       S.        A-
Est1-mado Se?ior Seeura:
La Secretaria de Hacienda y Cre'dito PQblico en nombre y
representacln del Gobierno de la ReptLblica de Honduran,
comunica  al Banco Internacional de Reconstruccifn y  fomento
q.ue en base a lo que se establezca en 1ae- ClAusulas
Contractuales,  incluidas dentro del Contrato de  Pr6atamo  a
suscribirse con ese Organizmo por un monto de US$.12.o  (DOCE
MILLONES  DEi DOLARES) para financiar el Proyecto  "Desarrol}o
Ambiental de Honduras- el Gobler-no de Hondurac crumplir&  con
el  comproTaiso de asignar los fondos necesarios  para  cubrir
gastos a ser financiados con la Contraparte Nacional Para  el
Proyecto.
Las previsiones de los fondos se haran en base a los
procedinientos establecidos en rueatra legislac6in en materia
de   ejecuci6n   presupuestaria   Y   en   atenci6r   a   los
requerimiento6 que presente la Unid.ad Ejecutora del pr
Aprovecho la oportunidad para patentizar al Sefior Segura  las
mue    de mi consideracidn y estima-
Minisrt,ro SD
CFC/GD/ m ds -de
cc:. Dr .Car 108 hedinia
Mini stro SEDA
CFC/GD)C/l1edes-



89
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND REPORTING
I.    Systematic and accurate reporting of project performance would be essential given
the extent of institutional changes, the scope of proposed project activities, and number of
agencies responsible for implementation. Active monitoring would be crucial taking into
account the innovative nature of the project and the need for adjusting for possible
changing circumstances during implementation in accordance with overall project
objectives as described and agreed upon during appraisal.
2.    The executing agency, the Ministry of the Environment (Secretaria del Ambiente -
SEDA) through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for coordinating
and assisting all the agencies participating in the implementation of the project in the
preparation of their individual reports. The PCU will consolidate the individual reports
and will forward the consolidated report to IDA within 30 days of the end of the quarter
during the first year, when quarterly reports will be required, and within 30 days of the end
of the semester thereafter, when semi-annual reports will be required.
3.    The reports will focus on evaluations of progress against the annual operating
plans, measures of project performance and impact, and other issues related to project
implementation and management. They are designed to be used by the Government of
Honduras (GOH) and IDA as an effective tool for project monitoring and would include
the following sections:
(a)   The Summary of Project Implementation would give a general description
of project implementation during the period under review, by component,
including the project's overall status, adherence to the Annual Operating
Plan and project impact to date. In addition, this section should comment
on the effectiveness of project coordination among project agencies and on
project administration issues, including fund flows/government budgeting,
disbursements, procurement, accounts and audits and technical assistance.
The summary status of each component would be covered in a separate
section. The status of actions proposed and issues unresolved from the
previous report, and actions proposed for the following period, would also
be included.
(b)   Performance and Impact Indicators would provide quantitative indicators
of project implementation by component and subcomponent as identified in
Appendix 1.
(c)   Financial Indicators would provide a summary of funds released by the
GOH and IDA, during the quarter by project component and disbursement
category (i.e., works, goods, services, and other expenditures).



90
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Procurement method and processing status by disbursement category, and
estimated future disbursements, would also be identified. The proposed
format for the financial indicators section of the reports is presented in
Appendices 2a and 2b.
(d)   The Status of Legal Covenants would present a summary of compliance
with project's legal covenants with cross-references to the legal documents
and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The information would be
presented as shown in Appendix 3.
4.    In summary, an outline of the report would be:
Part I Overall summary
A.    General status
1.    Major recent events
2.    Adherence to Annual Operating Plan
3.    Development impact to date
B.    Project administration
1.    Fund flows and Government budgeting
2.    Disbursements
3.    Procurement
4.    Financial reporting (accounts and audits)
5.    Technical assistance
C.    Organization and Management
1.    General monitoring and evaluation
2.    Coordination among project agencies
D.   Component by component discussion of status, problems and next steps
Attachment 1. Summary of recommended actions (who should do what by when)
Attachment 2. Summary status of recommended actions from last report
Part II Tables on performance and impact indicators
Part III Tables on financial indicators
Part IV Table showing status of legal covenants



HONDURAS                                                                                                         Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                 Appendix I
Monitoring and Reporting
Project Perforonace and Impact Indicators                                                                                    Page 1 of 6
Quarter:_
_                               176 17                                                          19
Original   Revised    Actual    Orgnal    Revsed    Actua       Otggmal   Revsd    Actual    Onigmnal   Revised    Actual
C    _mp.et                Subcaaspoue'st               AdIvles                              Task.                  Taret|  Target T| Tapmdt   Taged                                 Target    Taret                 Trsg   |  Target
A Environmenlad PlaWuung  A I EnwonmentaI nd Land   A I a Envicomental Pnmnig EnvromnentaI Profie upted and
ad Lgslibon                Ue Plabnng                                         pubbshed
Enviromneta Acon Plan updated and
publshed                                                                           _                                     _                     _
Enwirtemental Invsment Progamn
updated nd publshed                 _                                                                          _          ___
MMonoring and evalutio systein                         YES                             YES                             YES
_______________________ designed  and lunctioning            YES__YES                                                        _E        ___YES
A I b Natural Resources    Harnmionzed sectonal polces published    I
A I c Land Use Planneg     Land Use Pannung Unut established nd   YES                             YES                              YES                             YES
operatig_                                                                                                 _                  _                    _
LAnd Use Planning Strategy prepard andI
published__ _ _ __ _ _ ___ _ _ __ _ _ _
Base environmental maps
prepared/updated nd published
A I d Stuibes: B.odverstv.   Bohdersity study completed and
Sobd waste nd        published
Economic incentie_
Sold waste study completed and
published
Eonormc incentives study completed n   =d
____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ published                                 _ _ _  _                                               _ _ _ __              _ _ _
A 2 NbtonW  Environmental   Ak2  System Design.        SINIA designed and functioning
Information System           Development nd                                               YES                             YES                             YES                              YES
Admmnisutiaon
A 2 b Nanonal Environmertald Computers, comtuations hardware
Infomatbon System     nd sofhwre purchased and instaled n                                    14                               13                              10
Erqipment            the ptaping agences
A-2 c Geographic Inbfomatimon GIS designed nd fiuctioning
System                                                      YES                              YES                             YES                             YES
A 2d4 Docunentaton Center  DC estabbished and funtoning=                                           YES                             YES                             YES
A 3 Lagal and Regulatory    A 3a Hannaniation of Laws  Envronmena legislabon tfofmuaton
Franmework                   and Reglations        system designed and fmciuning          YES                             YES                              YES                             YES
Update and pubbsh saninmuy of laws and  I                                                                                                I
regulatins_
Workshops organized for the
htatmonuzbron of environmental                                          5
legilanon                                                                      __
Genenrl tnforation semtnars organized                                   2



HONDURAS                                                                                                              Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                       Appendix 1
Monitoring and Reporting                                                                                                  Agendixf1
Project Perfornnace and Itpact Indicators                                                                                          Page 2 of 6
Quarter:
19"             19%                               1"~~~~~~~~~~7 19"1
Original    Revised   Actual    Original    Revlsed     Actual    Ognal    Revl    d      AcuaL     Original    Revised     Actual
Sbsw -a.uu                     ActtitsTasks                                                   Target    Tuget                  Tualet     Trget                 Trget       Target                Tget       Turt
A 3 b Norms nd Techwical    Methodology for the adopion of
Standads              envrosnental noms nd technical           YES
standuds approved
A 3c Legal Enforcement      PA  nd FA fuly staffed. equrpped and      _                               YES                                                YES                          ==
A 3d Legal Traming nd        Legal professionals tind or
Technical Assistance    envtronnetal legislation nd regulitions                                                                     00                              300
A 4 Trauung and Pubc         A4a Environmenla Trauung  Nnbei of scholatshps awaded
Awareness                       nd Pubhc A ees                                                  3                                3                                 3
Progrm_
Environnental pubbc awareness packages    4                                4                                 4                                4
B Environmentl Quality    B I National System of        B I a Eqpmimnent for         Pabtin   agencies fuSy equipped and
Assessment                  Environmental Impact           DECA/SEDA,             functonig
Assssment                      DMH/SRN,
DIGEPESCA/SRN,
DRHVSRN,                                                                                         YES                              YES                               YES
COHDEFOR,
DGANMSSP, and
CESCCO/SSP                                                                                                                                                                                              N
B I b Training nd Technical  Scholarships for oversea short training
Assistance for        programs awarded
DECA/SEDA,
DMH/SRN,
DJIGEPESCA/SRN,
DRHISRN,
COHDEFOR                                                                                          3                                 3                                 4
DGAM/SSP.
CESCCO/SSP, nd othe
agencis
Traning seminars on EIA methodology                                        2                                 2                                 2
oegaticzed122
Training manuls on EA methodology                                          2                                 2                                 2
produced                                                                   2                                 2                                 2
EIA Congress convened                                                                                        I
B 2 Pilot Projcts for         B 2 a Fotesty Sector        Pilot environmental  sment concluded
Environiential Impact
Arassmnit and
Audirtng
Pilot environmental audbt concluded
B 2 b Agro-industry Sector    Pilot nvironmental    ment concluded
Pdot environmental audit concluded
B 2 c Mnnmg Sector          Pilot environmental assessment concluded



HONDURAS                                                                                                                 Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                          Appendix I
Monitoring and Reporting
Project Performace and Impact Indicators                                                                                              Page 3 of 6
Quarter:
1995                              196                                1"7                              19"9
C    _paae.t                Subeam_amaut                    AeMitt.                                Tatula                   Ongal    Reised        Actual    Orinal    Revised        Actu l    Oginwwl    Revised      AcAtul    Onnal    Resed           Actual
___________o __p_n_____A_th___Ta _k ___                                                             Target      Taget                  Tar8et     Target                 Taget       Target        -_                  Trget         _
Pdot environnental audit concluded
B 2 d EnergY Sector          Pilot envronmental assessment concluded 
Pilot enironmental audit concluded
C  Loc  Governmtent        C I Tcchucal Assistance for    C I. Catcain,as, Olanctuto.   Minucipal environentl profles prepare
Envtronmental               Municipal Environmen            Santa Rosa de Copan,
Management                  Managuemnnt                      nd Santab  rbara                                                  5                                 7                                 13
Regons
Municipal environmntal action plat         5                                 7                                 13
prepared___
Publc partapation semnins, organzed        6                                 34                                40                                 34A
Environmentl training prograin  for                                          2
women organuzed                                                _                                                                                   _
C 2 Environmental             C 2 a Munimpal nd            Pre-investment sludon conducted
lnreutments                     Comnuinwiy
Environmental
Investnments                                                                                                 .             _                      _                                                       I.
Projects funded nd corpleted              18                                 42     _
C 2 b Micro-enterpnise itne of Pre-mvestment studite conducted
Credit for Enironmental
Investnents                                                       3
Percent of credit ne aocated                                     =         100% 
C 2 c Estabshment of the     Enviomnental Urnt established nd
Envronmenl Unit at   functioniW                                  YES                               YES                                YES                               YES
Scholrships for oveseas short traung       6                                 2
propamn  awarded
Supervisors nd Inpewtms tramed in EtA     45                                 45
methdodogy                                            _                                                                _                                                 _
EIA seiUnars for executing agencies                                          6
C.2 d Evaluahon of the       Projects evahalued
Enrotunental                                                      I 0                               25
D  Admnitmo  and           D I TechnIal Asaisce to       D I a Strengthenrn  SEDA's   Admmsbative Unt fully staffed,
Project Coordautalon        SEDA's Admirnstraive            Admisrtrative Capacty  eqipped, and Buc6orig
UntJ                                                                                             YES                               YES                                YES                                YES
D 2. Project Coordfauabon and   D2 a Projct Coordntion      Project Coordiution Unit fuly staffed,
Mamgement                       Unit                   equupped4 id fianctioning                 YES                                YES                               YES                                YES
D2 lb Techical and Fnancal  Annual audits conducted
Audits                                                             I                                 I                                  I
D2 e Prourement Agency    Servie  from a procurement agency            YES                               YES                                YES



HONDURAS                                                                                                            Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                     Appendix 1
Monitoring and Reporting                                                                                                P       4 of 6
Project Perfomsce and Impact Indicators                                                                                          Page
Quarter:_
2000                             2001
c.np..mt                    Subvpom.t                     Atvtties                              Tasks                  Orginal    RevLsed     Actual    Onpw       Revised     Actual    Ognal   Revised        Actual
C _________________ Subce___nt___________   Target                              Taget       _         Taget      Target                Ta aet     Target _Tre T_
A. Enviroinental Panning   A I Environmental and Land   A I a Environmental Panning  Environmental Profile updated and
and Legislation             Use Plannng                                          published
Envuonrunental Action Plan updated and
published                                                                                                         ____        ____
Environmental Investment Progr mtm
updated and pubbshed                                                                                                         _
Monitonng and evahation systm          YES                               YES                              YES
designed atd functioning____________
A I b Natural Resources     Harnonized sectoral polcies published
A I c Land Use Plannig      Land Use Plnning Unit established and   YES                              YES                              YES
operattg                                  S
Land Use Plannig Strategy prepared and
publshed                                        ____                                          ____     ____
Base environnental maps
prepared/updated and publshed
A-l d  Studies Biodiversity,   Biodiversity study completed and
Solid waste and       publshed
Economic incentives
Sold waste study completed and
published__ _ _ _                                          _ _ _ ___ _ _ __ _ _ _
Economic inentives study completed and
pubhished_                                  _    _    _
A 2 National Environmental    A 2 a System Design        SINIA designed and functionuig
Informabon System             Development and
Administration                                                YES                              YES                              YES
A 2 b National Environmental Computer, commiunications hrdwae
Information System    and software purchased and instaled in
Equipment             the participating agees_
A 2 c. Geographic Information GIS designed and functioning
System                                                        YES                              YES                              YES
A 2 d Documentabon Cater  DC established and fundioning             YES                              YES                              YES
A.3 Legal nd Regulatory      A 3 a Harmonization of Laws  Environmental legislation infornation
Framework                     and Regulabions        system designed and functioning         YES                              YES                              YES
Update and pubbsh sumrnmay of laws and
regulatons                                                                                                            _
Worshops organized for the
ha _otzto of eivironmrental          
leslation                                                                                                  _
General infomfiation seminars organized



HONDURAS                                                                                                                  AnnexI
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                           Appendix 1
Monitoiing and Reporting
Project Perfonnace and Impact Indicators                                                                                               Page 5 of 6
Quarter:_
it"                               2000                              2001
Ongnal    Revised      Actual    Orginal    Revised       Actual    Origunl    Revised       Actual
Componet                     Sabcompamat                     Actvitdes                              Task,                    Tuaget     Target                 Tart        Target                 Target      Target
A 3 b Norms nd Technical    Methodology for the adoption of
StAnduds               environmental norms and techmcal
standuds approved
A 3 c Legal Enforcement      PA and FA fuly staffed, equipped, and                                       YES                                YES
____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ fuinctionuigY                            S
A.3 d Legal Traimng and      Legal professionals btrned mn
Techcal AssLstance    environmental legislation and regulabonsm
A 4 Training and Publc        A 4 a Environmental Trnung  Number of scholarslups awarded
Awareness                       and Publc Awareness
Program
Environmental pubbc awueness packages      4
B Environmental Quabty    B I. National System of         B I a Equipment for          Particpating agencies fully equipped ad
Assessment                   Environmental tmnpact           DECA/SEDA,             functioning
Assessment                      DMHtSRN,
DIGEPESCA/SRN,                                                  YES                                YES                                YES
COHDEFOR,
DGAMtSSP, and
CESCCO/SSP                                                                                                                                                                              tn
B I b Traurtng and Technical  Scholarships for overseas short tranng
Assistance for         programs awarded
DECAtSEDA,
DMHtSRN,
DIGEPESCAtSRN,
DRHtSRN,
COHDEFOR,
DGAMtSSP,
CESCCOtSSP, and other
agences
Trarung senua  on EA methodology           2
organized2
Tra=iing manuals on EA] methodology        2
produced2
EIA Congress convened
B 2 Pilot Project for         B 2 a Foresty Sector         got environmental assessment concluded
Environmental Impact
Assessment and
Auditing
Pilot environmental audit concluded
B 2 b Agro-industry Sector    Pilot environmental assessment concluded
Pilot environmental audit concluded
B 2 c Mining Sector          Pilot environmental assessment concludedl



HONDURAS                                                                                                            Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                     Appendix 1
Monitoring and Reporting
Project Perfonnace and Impact Indicators                                                                                         Page 6 of 6
Quarter:_
1995                            2000                             2001
C__o.eut                   Sukerinpsuent                  ActIitIes                             Ta It                  OnEtnal    Revised    Acua       Onginal    Revtsed     Actual    Ongnal    Revised      Actua
__________p  ______    ________________Su'         __________t____A_____         _______s____Tasks      ________        Target     Target                Target     Taget                 Target     Trget
Not envirotmettal audit concluded
B 2 d Energy Sector        PFlot environimenl assessment concluded
Pilot environmental audit concluded
C Local Government        C I Technical Assistance for    C I a Catacaimas. Olanchito,   Municipal environmental profiles prepared
Envrronmental              Municipal Environmentd         Santa Ross de Copani
Management                 Management                     and Santa Birbar
Regions
Municipal envitronmental action pls
prepared                                                                                                          _
Pubhc partctpation serunars orgaruzed    6
Environmental tramung programs for
women orgaruzed
C 2 Environmental            C 2 a Municipal nd          Pre-investinent studies conducted
Investments                   Conmunity
Environmental
Investments
Projects funded and completed         __
C 2  b Micro-enterpnse Line of Pre-ivestment studies conducted                                                                                                                          0'
Credit for Environmental
Investments
Percent ofcredit line allocated
C 2 c Establishment of the    Enviommental Unit established nd
Environmental Unit at  functioning                            YES                              YES                              YES
FHIS
Scholarships for oveasea short training
progrums awarded
Supervisors and mspectom trined in EIA
methodology
EtA senunats for executing agencies
C 2d Evaluation of the      Projects evaluated
Environmental
Investment
D Aditnistution and       D I Technical Assistance to   DLa. Strngtheing SEDAs   Adtinistmtive Unit fuly staffed,
Project Coordination       SEDAs Administistive           Administnative CapctY  eqipped and functioning
Unit                                                                                         YES                              YES                               YES
D,2. Project Coordination and   D 2 a Project Cooriation  Project Coordtion Unit fully staffed,
Management                    Unit                   equipped, nd functioning                YES                              YES                              YES
D2b Technical and Fuacl  Annual audits conducted                      I
Audits__                     _  _  _  _  _  _   _   _   _
D 2.c Procurement Agency    Services from a procurement aen_cy
re___ed



HONDURAS                                                                                                               Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr                                                                                                      Appendix 2a
Monitorlng and Reporting
Quar-terly Financial Report: Budget                                                                                             Page  1 of 2
Quarter:_
(USS 'OOO)
Totals Including Contingencies
_______________________________________________________          l9" 5                                             189 6                                              19 7                                               8996
Budge             Outey Ex 'ture                  Budge              ouuic   Es                      B             I  7irees Expewitut-                 Budge                    ey-mE
Fr.c_Rt Cuatnubt                                               On        Revised   Actual   Actuai  Cutistiulative  Orgml  Revsd   Acta    Actual  Cuzueclativu                Resed   Actual  ActulCunuttnlatv                                               UFsFuli
A. Eu      _irammu  Phuhg and L* hila._
1. Ewe _asmam  _d Laud U.. Pim'ng
Enwosunetl                                                      856g                                              1                                                  123                                                92
NaluaiResosecePlanie                                            181                      ___34 2                                                                      217                                                12 0
LAnd Usa eitD                                                   573                                               182                                                 865 '                                              544 
Studesc                                                                                                           15.41                                               83 2 
Sub8WEa*__la.d  Lad ULtPh.._g                                    1610                                              481 7                                              3149 _9                                            1 6
2 N _&mnW E       _Airamal 1mlla. Systm
System Deing  Depvelopennt ad Adietustniation                   23 5                                              121 3                                               854                                                829
SlNtA    inE ain tppit    t                                     247                                                88 M                                               88             _                                   68 5
Geograptar Infomeatio  System                                         _ __6 5                                                                                        116 1                    ____It                                    ___                 ___
Docusnenttimon Centr                                                                                               172                                                 60 
Subtah Nafian E         hivfr8a  la1naMIla. Syata                 48 .                                              233 6                                             296                                                161 5
3. Legal ad R.gukaey Frnmerk
Hanm iaimon of Lams ad Regulaisons                              64 7                                               890                                                13 6                                                34
Nons ad Tectwa Standairds                                                                                          637 _6_                               _
Leo   tforrerneit                                               75 6                                               49 5                                               50 61                                              51 7
Lepi TrtuWng and Tehucad Assistance                                                                               I0U6                                                872S6:_
Sbla t lA   mds iR      uwyq Fr      n                           1402                                               310 7                                              1514 .                                             55 1
4. Tritung and Pubhc Aweess                                        0 9 O739 n!                                                                                         711                                                f 803 
5ub8  EuA11r__til P i_g anid iA hl                                3503                                              1,099 9                            .                8334                                               455  _
B. Eramintal Qsmlt Ast saut_
1. N _lawaS7 Sysam af Eln_Ia.dal ltm*a Aastmamt_t
Sappoat fo DECA                                                                                                   1 1200                                               8 2                                                84
Support for DMH                                                                                                    25 5
Support for DIGEPESCA                                                _ __36 3   _ _
Support fo DRH                                                                                                     25 5
Support for COHDEFOR                                                                                               25 5
Suppoat for DGAM                                            ____25 5
Support for CESCCO                                                                                                2152                                                 60                                                 6 1
Trsnuig ad Temucal Assaistance                                                                                    25218                                              3337                                               264                        _
Subftab NallamI 5ysft  dt Euekaaimtal tImpact Aa.sessm.ut                                                           726 3 _   _                          __           347 9 _2,78 5
2 Plot ProJets fo Envirotanental impct_
A-seunien and Audit                                          1___                                                    4 41______   ___                                266 1  ________                                     192 6
Sabtata E      dr    i Q_ty As tt rmtnt                                                   _1 i 84                                                      _                614 0                                              4712
C. Lard Gww _mat Ewfraneta Mm_agta._t
I Tecluual Astsbnce fo Mwucia
M       _geas                                                    9981                   _                         3916                                               328 6                                              2332
2. E.,fron"al  nIuveua.
Miuntcpal ad Cottulty Envtrotesestal Investnerts               623 8                                            2,364 I                                               290
Micron ste   Ls t of Cedit for Envirountrsi_al
invesben                                                      4651
Estabhisxnt of te Enviroauesital Umt at FHIS                   245 2                                              2813              __                                661
Evaluation ofthes Envirn tanll Investisens                      12 7                    __                         95 31                                              44 4
S    _btab Esisveine.bl tweemassits                            1.3499  _      _                                   2,7409 '     _                                       10a4
SubttWl L.mi  G.wrnaat Ewlr _tsl Massaguss _t                    1,4496                                            3,132 5                                              4690                                               2337
D. Adinbbalwas _d PrjCt C         ea,dh_ tla_
I SEDAS Adieutattv Unic                                           15 4                                               8 7                                                89                                                 9 1
2 Project Coordination and Managett                              244   _                      _                    240 7                                              219 4                                              1789
SubltW  A    _mtrh  _ -  id Prjt Cerdtla_                         2598                _                              2494                                               2283                                               1 880
TW PROJECT COSTS                                               j  2,059 71                                           5,392:                                             2,1 i4481                                          1,34718   _ _



HONDURAS                                                                                                            Annexl I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECF                                                                                                   Appendix 2a
Monitoring and Reporting
Quarterly Financial Report: Budget                                                                                           Page 2 of 2
Quarter:__
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
_  I                      1                      2000eee                                           2001
Bud et            Ourmv pdittres                 Budet               uwed  Expediaure              BudeQa    Expeditures
Proolt Coponents                                              OuW    Rnvised   Actual  Actual  Cummulanive  Oris   Revised   Actual   Actual  Cunrunulative  Onguu   Revised   Actual   Actual  Curmrnulative
A. Enaiensertal PbnnIng and Lelsistion
1. Envirmseatal and Land Ut Pl.anIng
Environmetal Piannng                                          1152                                               83 1                                              213
Natural Resources Planning
L,and Use Planning                                             903                       _                       284
Studies                                                         -                _
Subtal Envirosnentald Land Ut P s                               205 5                                             III 5                                             213
2. Nationa Evlrumantal Informatimn Sysleni
System Design. Developwnent and Adrntnistnion                  848                                               67 7                                              17.1
SiNiA Equprment                                                34 3
Gcographic Infomation System                                    2 6                      _                        2 7
Docuienab on Center_ 
Subtatl Naiodl Enw  nanetajl nfratil Systm                      1217                       _                       70 4                      _71
3. Legal and Reglatry Frarkn___ __
Hnnonrmozbon of Laws and Regulations                           03
Norm  and Tehnca Stndrd&s                                                              _ __,
Legal Tniwng and Techncal Assistance
Subtotal Legal and Regulatory Framewowk                          53              __                                 4    ___ _             __      _____            27 6 ___          _____               _
4 Traini  and Publc Awaeness                                     52 3    =                                         52 4             =       =                                                 =_O0
Subtotal Envrnntsntal Pbaning nd Legislation                     4325                                              288 3                                              65 9
B. EnvIrsomental Qbafy Assessment
1. Natioa Systm of Envlrtnattal Impact Assessment
Support for DECA                                                 8 6 _                                            88 _                                              5 0
Support for DMH1
Support for DIGEPESCA
Support for DRH_
Support for COFIDEFOR
Suppoit for DGAM                                                                       __ _
Support for CESCCO                                              6 3                                               63_   _                                            6
Train   and Techuncal Assistance                               57  _____
Subtol NtIona Sydem of Envronmetal Impat Assesment               72 7                                              15.1 _6_                                          8
2 Pilot Projects for Environmental Impact
Assesunent and Audit                                           115.8
Subtal Evloetol Qtaity Astsesmnt                                  188,51                                             151                        8t 
C. Locl  ororaet Envirometa M"apnaeen
I. TechFnical Asstance for Municipal
Manaement                                                       51 1
2. EnvItomena Investments
Municipal and Community Environmental Investments
Micro-enterprise Line of Credit for Environuental
Investrnents
Establishment of tihe Environmnental Unit at FHIS __
Evaluation of the Environmental Investrnents                        __
Subtol E     n_     l Inve_sm ent
Subtal Local Govermet nt Envirnmenta M ge t                       511                                                                                              _         _
D. Admllt_a_o and Prout CoordInat _on
I SEDA's Adunistrative Unit                                       93                                                9. 5                                             4 8
2 Project Coorduintion and Managenent                           181 7                                             183:3                                              96
Sub5o_  Adst__ts    n ad Pr*ect Ctmrdiaton                        1910_                                             192.8                                            1008 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                863 i                            _I___            4962                                              1753____  753



liONDURAS                                                                                  Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr                                                                      Appendix 2b
Monitoring and Reporting
Quarterly Financial Report: Disbursement                                                             Page 1 of I
Quarter:_
(USS '000)
Planned                        Actual                        Planned                         Actual
Disbursed During Quarter       Disbursed During Quarter      Cummulative Disbursement    Cummulantve Disbursement
IDA Fiscal      Quarter        Amount         % of Total      Amount        % of Total       Amount         % of Total      Amount         % of Total
Year         Ending       ___ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
1996       Septemnber 95            921               9                              _            921               9
December 95              921              9                                          1,842              17
March 96              1,199             1  _           _                            3,041             28 _
June 96              1,199             I                 1                         4,240             39
1997       September 96           1,199                               1                                                               _ 5 439  50
December96             1,199              11                                         6,638              62
March 97     ____                        4                                          7,116             66
June97                479               4                                          7,595             70 __              _
1998       September 97          _ 479                4                                         8,073              75
December 97              479               4                                         8,552              79
March 98               292  _            3                                          8,844             82 .
June 98               292               3               _                          9,136             85
1999       September 98             292               3                                         9,428              87
December 98              292              3                                          9,721              90 _         _      _.                                   uf
March 99               165               2                                          99;886            92                _
June 99                165              2                                         10,051             93               _
2000       September 99             165               2                                         10,216             95 __      _         _
December 99              165               2                                        10,382              96
March 00                75               1                                         10,457             97
June 00                 75               1                                        10.532             98 8
2001       September 00              75               1                                         10,607             98                I
December00                75               1                                        10,683              99 _____
March 01                48               0                                         10,731            100
june01                  48              0                                         10,778            100



HONDURAS                                                                                Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       Appendix 3
Monitoring and Reporting                                                                    Page 1 of 5
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement|Section Covenant Present   Original    Revised                               Description of covenant                                         Comments
type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Credit    3.01       5                                        The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (a) shall carry
out: (i) Parts A. I (a) and (d), A.2, A.3 (a) and (b), A.4, B, C. I and D of
the Project, through SEDA; (ii) Part A. I (b) of the Project, through SNR;
(iii) Part A. I (c) of the Project, through SECPLAN; (iv) Part A. 3(c)
through PGR and FGR, and (v) Part A.3 (d) of the Project through SEDA
with the assistance of the Supreme Court's Judicial School, pursuant to the
Training Agreement; and (b) shall cause FIS to carry out Parts C.2, C.3,
C.4 and C.5 of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate engineering, financial, administrative,
technical and environmental practices and the provisions of the
Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the
______    ____                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project.
3.02(a)    S               July 1, 1995             The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with FHIS, satisfactory to the                                             o
Association, providing, inter alia, for: (i) the provision to FHIS of the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required to enable FHIS to
carry out Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project, including the transfer
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to such Parts of the Project; (ii) the
obligation of FHIS to carry out such Parts of the Project in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, including the
obligation: (A) to maintain records and accounts pursuant to the provisions
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, (B) the obligation of FIRS to mantain
and operate a unit, within FIGS, with staff satisfactory to the Association,
responsible for carrying out Part C. 5 of the Project, and (C) to carry out
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03. 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports and maintenace, respectively), in
respect of Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project; (iii) environmental
review criteria and procedures for selection and evaluation of investments
and ventures under Parts C.2 (b) and C.4 of the Project; and (iv) the role of
_____  ._______ .______ __________   SEDA in the approval and monitoring of such investments and ventures.
3.02(b)     5                                       The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations
under the FHIS Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest of the
Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the FHIS Agreement or
any provision thereof



HONDURAS                                                                           Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                 Appendix 3
Monitoring and Reporting                                                              Page 2 of 5
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section Covenant Present  Original 1 Revised                            Description of covenant                    f                Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment
date        date
3.03      9                                     Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of the Agreement, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its review and approval, not
later than November 30 of each year until the completion of the Project,
beginning in 1995, a drafl of the Project operating plan and budget, in
accordance with the Budget Letter, for the succeeding calendar year.
3.04      5                                     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.05      9                                     The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later than April 30, July
31, October 31 and January 31 during the first year of Project execution,
and not later than July 31 and January 31 thereafter until the completion
of the Project, a report of such scope and detail as the Association may
reasonably request on the implementation of the Project during the three
or six calendar months, as the case may be, preceding the month in which                                       o
the report shall be furnished to the Association.
3.06(a)    9                                     The Borrower shall: (i) undertake annual reviews of Project
implementation with the Association, not later than March 31 of each year
during Project implementation, beginning in 1996; and (ii) undertake an
in depth Project implementation mid-term review with the Association, not
later than September 30, 1998.
3.06(b)    9                                     As part of each such review, the Association may require that the Borrower
prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to make adjustments
in Project implementation. The Borrower shall furnish such action plan to
the Association no later than one month after the conclusion of such review
and shall thereafter carry out such action plan in accordance with its terms.
3.07(a)    5              July 3, 1995           The Borrower shall cause SEDA, SECPLAN and SRN to enter, not later
than July 3, 1995, into an administrative arrangement, satisfactory to the
Association, to determine their functions and responsibilities with respect
to Project implementation, with special emphasis to Part A. I of the
Project.
3.07(b)    5              October 1,             The Borrower shall cause SEDA, PGR and FGR to enter, not later than
1995                October 1, 1995, into an administrative arrangement, satisfactory to the
Association, to determine the functions and responsibilities of PGR and
FGR with respect to Project implementation, with special ernphasis on the
enforcement of environmental laws and regulations.
3.08(a)    5              October 1,             The Borrower shall enter, not later than October 1, 1995, into an
1995                agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with the Universidad Nacional



HONDURAS                                                                                Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                        Appendix 3
Monitoring and Reporting                                                                    Page 3 of 5
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement|Section[Covenant Present   Original T Revised                                Description of covenant                                         Comments
type    status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Aut6noma de Honduras, acting through the Instituto, regarding: (i) the
establishment of a computerized information system in the Instituto; (ii)
the procedures and principles governing the exchange of information stored
in the Instituto's computerized database; (iii) the provision to the Instituto
of the funds, facilities, services and other resources required to enable the
Instituto to carrv out the activity under (i) above; (iv) the operation and
maintenance of the computerized system referred to in (i) above, and (v)
the obligation of the Instituto to take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance of the equipment of such computerized information system
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropnate practice.                                                                                               l
3.08(b)    5                                        The Borrower shall exercise its rights and complv with its obligations
under the Instituto Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Instituto Agreement
or any provision thereof
3.09(a)    5               July 3, 1995             The Borrower shall enter, not later than July 3, 1995, into an agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, with each of the Selected Municipalities,
regarding their participation in the implementation of Part C I of the
Project.
3.09(b)    5                                        The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations
under the agreements referred to in (a) above, in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwvise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce said
. ________                                                     agreements or any provision thereof
3.1 0(a)   5                                        The Borrower shall maintain and operate until the completion of the
Project, within SEDA, a unit (PCU) with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association which shall include, inter alia: (i)
coordination of the implementation of the Project; (ii) monitoring and
evaluation of the Project; (iii) preparation of (A) the operating plans and
budgets referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and (B) the reports
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, (iv) procurement of goods
under Parts A, B, C. I and D of the Project; and (vi) maintenance of the
records and separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this
l __________________________  _______IAgreement



HONDURAS                                                                                Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                        Appendix 3
Monitoring and Reporting                                                                    Page 4 of 5
Status of Legal Covenants
reement Section Covenant Present   Original    Revised                              Description of covenant                                         Comments
ll  type    status   fulfillment  fuillet
date        date                                                                                                                        l
3.1 0(b)    5                                       The Borrower shall ensure that PCU is at all times staffed with an
adequate number of full-time professionals with qualifications and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, and shall be assisted by
clerical staff in adequate numbers.
3.11 (a)   5                                        The Borrower shall maintain and operate until the completion of the
Project, within SECPLAN, a land use planning unit (UOT) with functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association which shall include,
inter alia: (i) updating of enviromental baseline maps and (ii) preparation
of land use strategies.
3.1 I(b)    5                                       The Borrower shall ensure that UOT is at all times staffed with an
adequate number of professionals with qualifications and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association, assisted by clerical staff in adequate
numbers.
3.12(a)    13                                       The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan, of suchn
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, for the
future operation of the Project.
3.12(b)    13                                       The Borrower shall afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
3.12(c)    13                                       The Borrower shall thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account
the Association's comments thereon.
4.01(a)     I                                       The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of (i) the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts A, B, C. I
and D of the Project with respect to such Parts of the Project; and (ii) FFHS
with respect to Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project.
4.01(b)     1                                       The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
.___________________     to the Association such other information concerning said records, accounts



HONDURAS                                                                         Annex I
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                Appendix 3
Monitoring and Reporting                                                             Page 5 of S
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section Covenant Present [ Original    Revised                        Description of covenant                                     Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment
_ pe               date        date
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
4.01(c)    1                                    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures, (iii) enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their                                        >
______  ________ _______  __________            preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Covenant types:                                                                    Status:
I = Accounts and audits                                                            C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                    CD = complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                                          NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                                                            SOON = compliance expected in reasonably short time
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency                          CP = complied with partially
6 = Environmental covenants                                                        NYD = not yet due
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous peoples
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional actions
13 = Other



105
Annex J
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    The proposed operation is relatively complex and the executing agency relatively new and
with limited experience with IDA operations in the agricultural sector. Therefore, it will require
close supervision, especially for the first two years of the project.
2.     The supervision calendar for the first two years of the project is as follows. A project
launch workshop will be held immediately after effectiveness. It will include the participation from
senior staff from the participating agencies. Annual review workshops will be held to assist the
participating agencies to develop a common understanding of the project's overall objectives,
operational procedures, coordination needs and potential implementation problems. During the
first two years, annual task manager input, including supervision missions and work at
headquarters, is estimated to be 35 staff-weeks (SW) and the input of other IDA staff and/or
consultants is estimated to be 52 SW. From the third year on, annual task manager input is
estimated to be 15 SW per year, and the input from other IDA staff and/or consultants is estimated
to be 12 SW. What follows is a list of supervision missions and annual reviews for the first two
years of the project including the number of SW estimated per mission.
3.     Proiect launch workshop. The project launch workshop will take place in the early part of
the 3rd quarter of 1995' and will require 15 SW. It will focus on project concept and
implementation, procurement and disbursement procedures, the 1995 Annual Operations Plans and
Budget for each participating agency, the terms of reference for the consultants to be hired and the
studies to be contracted, and potential start-up problems. The mission participants will be: (a) task
manager (planning and budgeting); (b) environmental planning specialist; (c) land use planning
specialist; (d) environmental law specialist; (e) procurement specialist; and (f) disbursement
specialist
4.     First supervision mission. The first supervision mission will take place at the end of the
3rd quarter of 1995 and will require eight SW. It will review project start-up activities,
particularly procurement and disbursement procedures, and the budget and work program for
1995. It will also discuss the preparation of the 1996 Annual Operations Plan and Budget. The
mission participants will be: (a) task manager (planning and budgeting); (b) environmental
planning specialist; and (c) procurement specialist.
5.     Second supervision mission and first Annual Review. The second supervision mission will
take place the 1st quarter of 1996 and will require 17 SW. This will be a full supervision mission
and the first Annual review. It will focus on project start-up and possible initial implementation
problems and will evaluate the implementation of the 1995 Annual Operations Plan and Budget.
The mission participants will be: (a) task manager (planning and budgeting); (b) environmental
planning specialist; (c) land use planning specialist; (d) environmental law specialist; (e)
environmental impact assessment specialist; and (f) municipal investments specialist.
6.     Third supervision mission. The third supervision mission will take place the 3rd quarter of
1996 and will require 19 SW. It will focus on a review of the implementation of the work program
I  Calendar year: January I - December 31



106
Annex J
Page 2 of 2
and the budget for 1996, and on project implementation issues, such as procurement and
disbursement. It will also discuss the preparation of the 1997 Annual Operations Plan and Budget.
The mission participants will be: (a) task manager (planning and budgeting); (b) environmental
planning specialist; (c) land use planning specialist; (d) environmental law specialist; (e)
information systems specialist; and (f) procurement specialist.
7.     Fourth supervision mission. The fourth supervision mission will take place the Ist quarter
of 1997 and will require 15 SW. This will be a full supervision mission and the Second Annual
review. It will focus on the project components under implementation and will evaluate the
implementation of the 1996 Annual Operations Plan and Budget. The mission participants will be:
(a) task manager (planning and budgeting); (b) environmental planning specialist; (c) information
systems specialist, (d) environmental law specialist; (e) environmental impact assessment
specialist; and (f) municipal investments specialist.
8.     Fifth supervision mission. The fifth supervision mission will take place the 3rd quarter of
1997 and will require 13 SW. It will focus on the project components under implementation,
particularly the environmental quality assessment component, and the municipal environmental
management and investment component. At this time the the project implementation requirements
will be evaluated and adjustments to the PCU staffing and functions will be discussed. It will also
discuss the preparation of the 1998 Annual Operations Plan and Budget. The mission participants
will be: (a) task manager (planning and budgeting); (b) environmental impact assessment
specialist; (c) information systems specialist; and (d) municipal investments specialist.
9.     Based on the above plan, IDA staff requirements for project supervision for the first tvo
years of the project will be:
TASKS                                    Staff-Weeks
Planning, programning and budgeting          35
Procurement and disbursement                  5
Environmental and land use planning          15
Environmental legislation                     8
Environmental impact assessment               8
Municipal environmental investments           8
Information systems                           8
TOTAL                                        87
10.    Annual reviews wVill take place by March 31 each year and the mid-terrn review will take
place by September 30, 1998. Both the annual reviews and the mid-term review will include a
detailed review of the project against the agreed project performnance and impact indicators and all
legal covenants. The appropriateness of staff levels and financial support from the GOH, and the
project coordination requirements will also be reviewed. Accordingly, the annual and mid-term
reviews will uffer the opportunity to modify project implementation as appropriate in light of actual
implementation experience.



107                           ADnICX I.
Page I of 2
SECRETARIA DE
-   PLANIFICAC/ON                                   Ls2ia:A4:.5[AgL , 5'
COOPDINACION
YPRESUPUES TO
SEPLSECPLAN
1 de Jullo de 1994
Uficic No DVM-2101-94
Doctor
DAVID DE FlRRANTI
Jefet de Divisi6jn de C)peraciones para
MNxicos y Medio Ambiente
Departamenito Z-?anco Mundial
Regi6n America Latina y El Caribe.
Estimado Seilor Ferranti
La Secretaria de Flanificaci&n, Coordinaci&n y PresuPuesto SECFLAN
ha analizadc el Proyecto "DESARROLLC) AMBIENTAL DE HONDURAS"  que 
ejecuta  is  Secretaria  del Ambiente  SEDA,  en  el marco  de  la
Coopersci6n Financiers con el Banco Mundial. Considerando que loc
objetivocs de este proyecto se orienta a fortalecer la capacidatd
operativa de las instituciones nacionales con competencia en is
aplicaciln de la Ley General del Ambiente, armonizar el marco legal
vigente en materia ambiental, a establecer y hacer operativos los
prlnci pales mecanismos de coordinaci6n, focmulaci6n, ampliacitn
segulmiientos,  control  y  evaluaci6n  de  la  gesti6n  y  calidad
ambiental, aspecto que pars nuestro Gobierno constitUYen la base
Para alcansra el desarrollo sostenible, principios eztrat,gicos que
hemos adoptsdo e impulsamos con criterio prioritario.
Con agrado me permito oficialmente  informarle que el Gabinete
Econ&mlco en Ses<i6n conjunta con la Misi&n de Programaci6n del
Fondo  lonetarlo, BID  y Banco  Mundial, que  visit6S el pais  a
priciplis dte mayo acord6 incluir en la programaci6n Pars el periodo
1994-1995  el  proyecto  de  is  referencia.  For  las  rasones|
anteriormente seialadas esta Secretaria amparada en el Articulo 25
de la Ley dee Flanificaci6n ratifica la prioridad para este proyecto
y autoliZa el proceder con los trAmites correspondientes, a fin de
Tegucigalpa. M.D.C., Apartado Postal N9 1327, Tels. 37-7715, 37-2735, Fax: (504) 38-1777



Annex K
108                      Page 2of 2
SECRETARIA DE
r            PLAN/FICAC/ON                                                           '
r           _  COORD/NAC/ON
Y PRESUPUESTO
SECPIAN
Continuaeion: (2)
()ficio I)VV-2C01-94
que el mismo pueda ser eje-utado a principios de 1995 ide
conformidad con lo acordado con las MisioneS que oportunamente noz
han visitado.
Es  propicia  la  oportunidad,  para  manifestarle  las  especiales
muestras de reconocim              onsideraci6n.
LIC. R   C PT M^+f
PiAit dF if lca                   Ley
cc. Arcbiivo
Tegucigalpa, MDC., Apartado Postal N0 1327, Tels. 37-7715, 37-2735, Fax: (504) 38-1777



109
Annex L
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
I. General documentation
a) Ley General del Ambiente
b) Reglamentaci6n de la Ley General del Ambiente
c) Reglamentacion del Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental
d) Manual Tecnico el Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Impacto Ambiental
e) Ordenamiento Territorial para el Desarrollo Sustentable de Honduras
f) Las Medidas Econ6micas y su Relaci6n con la Politica de Desarrollo Sostenible y
Equitativo del Gobiemo de Honduras
g) Manual de Operaciones y Plan de Implementaci6n
2. Documents received prior to negotiations
a) General
i)  Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto "Desarrollo Ambiental de Honduras"
(PRODESAM)
ii)  Plan de Implementaci6n del Subcomponente de Inversiones Ambientales del
Proyecto "Desarrollo Ambiental de Honduras" (PRODESAM)
iii) Manual de Operaciones del PRODESAM
b) Planning and Legislation Component
i)  Draft agreement between SEDA, SECPLAN, and SRN regarding their respective
roles in land use planning (ordenamiento territonral) in general, and, specifically,
regarding those activities to be undertaken under the proposed project.
ii) Draft agreement between SEDA, the Procuraduria, and the Fiscalia on
coordination for the enforcement of environmental laws.
iii) Draft terms of reference for the studies to be funded by the proposed project:
economic incentives, biodiversity, and solid waste.
iv) Draft terms of reference of the process of environmental planning.
v)  Draft terms of reference for the design of the land use plan.
vi) Draft terms of reference for the updating of the base maps for the land use plan.
vii) Draft terms of reference for the design and operation of the SINIA, and the
technical assistance that will be provided to the participating agencies.
c) Environmental Quality Assessment Component
i)  Draft agreement between SEDA and each of the agencies participating in the
establishment and operation of the SINEIA financed by the proposed project.
ii)  Description of the technical assistance that will be provided to SEDA and other
agencies participating in the implementation of this component of the proposed
project.
iii) Draft terms of reference for the intemational consultant who will provide technical
assistance to DECA and other agencies participating in the establishment of the
SINEIA.



110
Annex L
Page 2 of 2
d) Local Govemment Environmental Management Component
i) Draft agreement between SEDA and FHIS regarding the implementation of the
Environmental Investments Subcomponent, specifying, inter alia, the
enVironmental assessment critenra that will be used to select and evaluat the
subprojects and the role of SEDA in project approval and monitonng.
ii) Model agreement between SEDA and each of the participating municipalities in
Technical Assistance for Municipal Environmental Management Subcomponent.
iii) Draft terms of reference for the preparation of manuals for the promotion,
evaluation, and control of environmental investment subprojects implemented by
FHIS, and for the inclusion of environmental considerations in FHIS general
operations.
iv) Draft terms of reference for the new FHIS environment unit.
v)  Draft terms of reference for the consultants that will design and conduct the
workshops and the technical assistance activities to be financed under the
Technical Assistance for Municipal Environmental Management Subcomponent.
vi) Draft terms of reference for the guidelines for the women's environmental
education activities to be financed under the Technical Assistance for Municipal
Environmental Management Subcomponent.
vii) Draft terms of reference for the design of standards and procedures to be used in
evaluating the environmental impact of subprojects being considered, or having
received, FHIS financing.
viii) Draft terms of reference for the revision of the technical specifications of existing
F-IS investment subprojects.
ix) Draft terms of reference for the development of the criteria for the selection of pre-
investment studies under the municipal investment and micro-enterprise line of
credit activities supported under the proposed project.
x)  Legal opinion from the Procurarduria General de la Republica regarding the
eligibility of F-IS to finance environmental investments.
e) Administration and Project Coordination Component
i) Draft subsidiary agreements between SHCP and SEDA, as implementing agency,
and FHIS.
ii) Draft terms of reference for the PCU technical staff.
iii) Draft standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and services.
iv) Draft terms of reference for the contracting of the procurement agency.
v) Draft auditing procedures, separating physical from accounting audits and
providing for increased number of direct contract subprojects audited.
vi) Salary schedule for SEDA permanent technical staff and consultants that are to be
hired with project resources officially approved by SEDA, SECPLAN and SHCP.



;                               818                                                      86-                                                       8A
j                                                                                                                                                HONDURAS
I  BELIZE                                                                                                                  ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT
I                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT
|                                                                   ROATAN D
!
16    !                                                                                                                                                                                         16-
LA CEIBA                    TRUJILLO
GUATEMALA    .-                                                                                wC
. #OSAN PEDRO                                                  O     O
OLANCHITO 
.  ,h:4 JSF   :                                  ; A4                              DUYCE E
NOMBRE                                         PET
I R                                                         _                                                   / -(OL r YOROW  DE CUiiAi                      LEMPIRO
511  1w   P^  r*    BARBARF                                                                                             ,r--                                            J ' -  
NA ROSA        T
S.kJJA                           .                          JICPAR A           - Vf__
-.     ~        \, )OGRACIAS
NUEVA       C A(.A                                                     U| YAALACATACAMAS   '
A  . GOCOTEPEQUE                                    E)COMAYAGUA                         JUI ICA           
'                    LA W        LA PAZ
_a.            EXPERANZA
-14 A'               s                                          )tTEGUCIGALPA                 i,              .                                                                                14
*0 *_ ._'        ' __,                        YUSCARAN            ,   *1
EL SALVADOR '                                                        YUSCARAN
f {       -                                |      | PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITIES
TO Son Salvodor  88      
88 .    NACAOME                                                                  RIVERS
I        IS       8          F 7B0 /                                 4>                                            t3    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
EOCHOLUTECA.
-18M- 1-'t l8-- (3CHOLUTEXICA .                                                                                                   N      ATION AL CAPITAL
MEXICC88 j8EUZE ' ~NICARAGUA
._ .N                                                                                                                  DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
GUATEMALA7 HONDURAS                                                                                                             I R      O
-  -4= /*Y.._                     x-{ 1n-.                                         Sn' ~ ' ~              ' INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  =or
EL                                                                                                                                                                         n.naonanan
SALVADo ONICARAGJA                                          0      25    50    75    100 Kiomkers                                                                            on ,nfonmopoo  ns
O                                                                                                                                                                                        i l   ]  I-oh. I  I  I  I  ,ny    on dse   psd of
0   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1WI                                                IIIITh. Wotld Sank Orop,  U'
o                         COSTA RICA  PANAMA                            0          25        50         75         1 00 Miles                                                            alsvt-IfId 69.r
M.4 of oy rI-Ar.Y 0
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                      84                    or acceptooce of such   O
9W       86        82       COLOMBIA                                                       86                                                         84                                     .



