Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NO. 22787
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Environmental Development Project II)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated April 15, 1994
Page  2
TRUST FUND NO. 22787
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT - II (JGA-II), dated April 15, 1994 
between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between 
Japan and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
and the Association, Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the 
Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made 
available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the 
provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) in an amount of ¥42,400,000 of which 
¥21,200,000 will be used to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this JGA-II (the Project) on the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient, the Association and the Administrator have 
entered into a Japanese Grant Agreement (the JGA-I) of even date herewith to 
carry out the Project (the Technical Assistance) in connection with the activities 
which require the hiring of foreign consultants;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 
1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), and (13), 
Page  3
2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and  9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the 
International Development Association acting as 
Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter agreement 
between Japan and the Bank and the Association referred to 
in Recital (A) of this JGA-II, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Association" shall also include the International 
Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used 
in the General Conditions, means this JGA-II;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by 
the Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient 
to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
Page  4
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
JGA-II; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made 
in yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or 
are payable in another currency, the Administrator shall, at 
the request of the Recipient, purchase such currency with the 
proceeds of such withdrawal.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this JGA-II, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals 
to this JGA-II have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" 
and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, 
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this JGA-II, the Grant 
which amounts to forty-two million four hundred thousand yen (¥42,400,000) of 
which twenty-one million two hundred thousand yen (¥ 21,200,000) shall be used 
by the Recipient to finance the carrying out of the activities referred to in 
Schedule 2 to this JGA-II.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount referred to in Section 2.01 of this JGA-II may 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this JGA-II, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time 
by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for expenditures 
made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this JGA-II.
Page  5
Section 2.03. The Secretario
de
Estado
en
el
Despacho
de
Hacienda
y
Crédito
Público
of the Recipient (or such other person or persons as such 
Secretario
shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this JGA-II and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project in connection with the activities 
which require the hiring of local consultants.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this JGA-II.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall cause the local consultants to coordinate 
their activities to be carried out under Schedule 2 to this JGA-II with the foreign 
consultants (to be employed under the JGA-I), in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, in order to achieve the objectives of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expen- diture 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
proce-dures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
that the Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the JGA-I; and
(b)
that the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under the JGA-I.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the 
effectiveness of the JGA-II, namely that the JGA-I has been duly executed and 
delivered by the respective parties thereto.
Section 5.02. This JGA-II shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this JGA-II have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.03 of this JGA-II, the 
Secretario
de
Estado
en
el
Despacho
del
Ambiente
of the Recipient is designated 
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Secretaría de Estado en el Despacho
  del Ambiente (SEDA)
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Apartado 4710
Honduras
Cable address:
Telex:
HACIENDA
  1308 HACIENDA HO
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Page  8
For the Administrator:
Director
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this JGA-II to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS                         
By /s/ Juan Ferrera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
on its own behalf and as
Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Carribean
Page  9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed
 Expenditures
Category
     in Yen)    
to be Financed
(1)
Local Consultants’
16,960,000
100%
Services
(2)
Operational Costs
 4,240,000
100%
Total
21,200,000
2.
For purposes of this Schedule: the term "Operational Costs" means the 
cost of secretarial support, office space and supplies, workshops and seminars 
necessary to enable the Recipient to carry out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of 
this JGA-II, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of ¥2,120,000 may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 3, 1994.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Provision of local technical assistance to the Recipient in order to assist the 
Recipient in the design of the components of the proposed Environmental 
Development Project, which consist of the following:
(a)
institutional development;
(b)
small scale environmental improvement investments for the 
Recipient's municipalities and communities; and
(c)
environmental studies.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the JGA-II, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Category set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this JGA-II;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this JGA-II; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$40,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis 
of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such 
Page  11
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Category and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this JGA-II; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the 
Page  12
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administartor) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
JGA-II, including the General Conditions.
