Page  1
April 14, 1999
Her Excellency Lic. Gabriela Núñez de Reyes 
Minister of Finance 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Re:
HONDURAS:  Credit No. 2693-HO
(Environmental Development Project)
Second Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement 
Excellency: 
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 21, 1995 entered 
into between the Republic of Honduras (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association), as amended.
As a result of the damage caused by Hurricane Mitch in the Borrower’s territory 
and the restructuring of SEDA, the Borrower requested the Association to: (a) 
reallocate part of the proceeds of the Credit to finance, inter alia, the carrying out 
of emergency infrastructure activities in the city of Tegucigalpa; (b) replace SEDA 
with SERNA (the Borrower’s Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment – 
Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y del Ambiente), as the Project implementation agency 
for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (b), A.4, B, C.1 and D of the Project; and (c) delete the 
activities related to the establishment and operation of a line of credit to finance 
environmental ventures of small and micro-enterprises under Part C.4 of the Project. 
In response to such request, the Association hereby agrees  to amend the Development 
Credit Agreement, as follows:
I.
Development Credit Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
(a)
‘Budget Letter’ means the Borrower’s letter, satisfactory to the 
Association, that establishes the counterpart funds to be allocated each year in the 
Borrower’s annual budgets until the completion of the Project; 
(b)
‘FGR’ means Fiscalía General de la República, the Borrower’s Public 
Prosecutor’s Office; 
(c)
‘FHIS’ means Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social, the Borrower’s Social 
Investment Fund established as a public entity with juridical personality pursuant to 
Decree No. 12-90, whose duration was extended until March 2, 2002, by Decree No. 
153-94 of December 24, 1994; 
(d)
‘FHIS Agreement’ means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(e)
‘FHIS Environmental Unit’ means the unit referred to in Section 3.02 (a) 
(ii) (B) of this Agreement;
(f)
‘Hurricane Mitch’ means the natural phenomenon which caused heavy rains 
in Central America between October 25, 1998 and November 1, 1998; 
(g)
‘Laboratory and Field Equipment’ means any equipment for environmental 
and field analysis, such as instruments for the measurement of pollutants, 
spectrophotometers, thermometers, glassware, tents, binoculars, backpacks and sleeping 
bags; 
Page  2
(h)
‘Operational Manual’ means the Borrower’s manual dated February 24, 1995, 
detailing all the operational aspects of the execution of the Project, including, 
inter alia, model bidding documents, letters of invitation, disbursement procedures 
and the Project implementation indicators; 
(i)
‘PAAD’ means Plan de Acción de Ambiente y Desarrollo, the Borrower’s 
environment and development action plan prepared by the Borrower in June 1993; 
(j)
‘PCU’ means the Project coordination unit established within SERNA and 
referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement; 
(k)
‘PGR’ means Procuraduría General de la República, the Borrower’s Attorney 
General Office;
(l)
‘Protected Areas’ are the areas officially designated by the Borrower to 
be under a special management regime for the primary purpose of ensuring their 
ecological integrity, such as national parks, wildlife refuges and natural reserves; 
(m)
‘SAG’ means Secretaria de Agricultura y Ganaderia, the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock; 
(n)
‘Selected Municipalities’ means the municipalities, satisfactory to the 
Association, selected by the Borrower for the purposes of participating in the 
carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project; 
(o)
‘SERNA’ means Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y del Ambiente, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Natural Resources and the Environment; 
(p)
‘SINEIA’ means Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de Impacto Ambiental, the 
Borrower’s national system for environmental impact assessment, provided in the 
Borrower’s environmental law (Decree No. 104-93) and the regulation thereof; 
(q)
‘SINIA’ means Sistema Nacional de Información Ambiental, the Borrower’s 
National Environmental Information System;
(r)
‘SOPTRAVI’ means Secretaría de Obras Públicas, Transporte y Vivienda, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Public Works, Transport and Housing; 
(s)
‘Special Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(t)
‘SS’ means Secretaria de Salud, the Borrower’s Secretariat of Health; 
(u)
‘Supreme Court’s Judicial School’ means the school for training of the 
members of the Borrower’s judicial branch of government; and 
(v)
‘Training Agreement’ means an agreement referred to in Section 3.01(b) of 
this Agreement.”.
2.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read as follows: “Section 2.03. The Closing 
Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall establish. 
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”.
3.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out: (A) Parts 
A.1, A.2, A.4, B, C.1 and D of the Project, through SERNA; 
(B) Part A.3 (a) of the Project 
through PGR and FGR; (C) Part A.3 (b) of the Project 
through SERNA with the assistance of 
the Supreme Court’s Judicial School; (D) Parts 
E.1 and E.2 of the Project, through SOPTRAVI 
and SERNA; and (E) Part E.3 of the 
Project, through SS; and (ii) shall cause  FHIS to carry 
out Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 
of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity 
with appropriate engineering, financial, administrative, technical and 
environmental practices and the provisions of the Operational Manual, and shall 
provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such 
Parts of the Project. 
Page  3
(b)
For purposes of carrying out Part A.3 (b) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall enter 
into an agreement with the Supreme Court’s Judicial School under terms 
and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.”.
4.
Section 3.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) above, the Borrower 
shall enter into 
an agreement with FHIS, satisfactory to the Association, 
providing, inter alia, for: (i)
the 
provision to FHIS of the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required to enable 
FHIS to carry out Parts C.2, C.3 
and C.4 of the Project, including the transfer of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit allocated to such Parts of the Project; (ii) the obligation of FHIS 
to 
carry out such Parts of the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth  in this Agreement, including the obligation: (A) to maintain records and 
accounts pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement; (B) the 
obligation of FHIS to maintain 
and operate a unit, within FHIS, with staff 
satisfactory to the Association, responsible for 
carrying out Part C.4 of the 
Project; and (C) to carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03. 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, 
respectively), in respect of Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project; (iii) 
environmental 
review criteria and procedures for selection and evaluation 
of investments and ventures 
under Part C.2 (b) of the Project; and (iv) 
the role of SERNA in the approval and monitoring 
of such investments. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the FHIS 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interest of the 
Borrower and the Association, and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the FHIS Agreement 
or any provision 
thereof.”.
5.
Sections 3.08 and 3.11 are hereby deliberately left blank. 
6.
The term “SEDA” referred to in Section 3.10 (a) is replaced with the term 
“SERNA”.
7.
Sections 3.13 and 3.14 are added to read as follows: “Section  3.13. The 
Borrower shall prior to the carrying out of each specific investment referred to in 
Part E.2 of the Project, carry out an environmental evaluation of each such investment 
in a manner acceptable to the Association. If the evaluation of a particular 
investment recommends actions to be taken by the Borrower to address any negative 
environmental impact, the Borrower shall take all such actions in a manner acceptable 
to the Association. Section 3.14. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.08 
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall prior to the carrying out of the 
investment referred to in Part E.2 (e) of the Project, furnish to the Association 
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that it has acquired legal title over the 
land in which such works will be carried out.”.
8.
Section 4.01 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures of: (i) the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out Parts A, B, 
C.1, D and E of the Project with respect to such 
Parts of the Project; and (ii) 
FHIS with respect to Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project.”. 
9.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as set forth in 
Annex 1 to this Amendment Letter.
10.
Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in 
respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  4
except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR740,000, may 
be made on account of 
payments related to: (i) the establishment and 
operation of PCU, FHIS Environmental Unit and  UOT; and (ii) expenditures under Part 
C.1 of the Project, before that date but after July 1, 
1994. 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under any investment included in Part C.2 
(b) of the 
Project, unless the Association shall have approved the study under Part 
C.2 (a) of the 
Project prepared for such investment; 
(c)
payments made for expenditures made under Part A.3 (b) of the Project, 
unless the 
Training Agreement shall have been entered into by the parties 
thereto; and 
(d)
payments made for expenditures made under Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the 
Project, 
unless the FHIS Agreement has been entered into by the parties 
thereto.”. 
11.
Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Amendment 
Letter. 
12.
Schedule 3 is hereby amended to read as set forth in Annex 3 to this Amendment 
Letter.
13.
Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
I.
(a)
“ the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (8) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; ”.
II.
Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall: (a) be executed in two counterparts each of which 
shall be an original; and (b) become effective as of March 1, 1999 once the 
Association has received: (i) one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; 
and (ii) evidence, acceptable to the Association that: (A) the PCU has been 
transferred to SERNA and is operating in a manner acceptable to the Association; and 
(B) the Borrower has amended the agreement entered into with the United Nations 
Development Programme dated September 10, 1996, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, for purposes of assisting the Borrower in the procurement of goods, works 
and consultants’ services under Part E of the Project. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Director 
Central America Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
Date:
April 14, 1999
ANNEX 1
“1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  5
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
to be Financed
(1) Goods
   270,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures
for goods procured
through the services
of a tax-exempt
procurement agent
(2) Goods, works and
   610,000
100% of foreign
    consultants’ services
expenditures, 100%
    under Part C.2 (b) of the
of local expenditures
    Project
for consultants’ services
and 100% of local
expenditures for goods
and works procured
through the services
of a tax-exempt
procurement agent
(3) Subloans
   0
100% of amounts
disbursed under the
Subloans
(4) Consultants’ services
  1,630,000
100%
    and Training
(5) Incremental Recurrent
    Expenditures
    310,000
100% until an aggregate
       amount equivalent to
SDR 150,000 has been
withdrawn; 60% until an
aggregate amount equivalent 
to SDR 250,000 has been 
withdrawn; and 20% thereafter
(6) Goods, consultants’
    450,000
100% of foreign
    services and operational
expenditures and 100%
    expenditures under Part
of local expenditures
    D.2 of the Project
for consultants’ services
and operational 
expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures
for goods procured
through the services
of a tax-exempt
procurement agent
(7) Works under Part E.2
   2,910,000
100% of foreign
    of the Project
expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures
for works procured
through the services
of a tax-exempt
procurement agent
(8) Goods under Part E.3
   1,075,000
100% of foreign
    of the Project
expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures
for goods procured
through the services
Page  6
of a tax-exempt
procurement agent
(9) Unallocated
     145,000
     TOTAL
   7,400,000.”
ANNEX 2 
“SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) strengthening of the institutional 
capabilities of the Borrower’s agencies involved in: (i) environmental and natural 
resource planning; (ii) environmental policy, legal and regulatory framework 
development; (iii) environmental inter-agency and inter-sectorial coordination 
activities; (iv) environmental monitoring activities; and (v) enforcement of 
environmental laws and regulations; (b) design and implementation of a system for 
preparing and processing environmental impact assessments and environmental audits in 
high priority sectors, such as forestry, agro-industry, mining and energy; and (c) 
development of the environmental management capabilities of Selected Municipalities. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Environmental Planning and Legislation
1.
(a)
Consolidation of the PAAD into a permanent environmental planning 
process, including:
(i)
the preparation every two years of: (A) national environmental profiles; and (B) 
environmental policy papers; and (ii) the preparation of: (A) SERNA’s annual operating 
plans; and (B) annual environmental investment plans, all in consistency with the 
framework laid out by the PAAD. 
(b)
strengthening of SAG’s Agriculture Sector Planning Unit to enable it to 
implement the Borrower’s current natural resources management policies in accordance 
with the environmental management objectives of the PAAD; and 
(c)
carrying out of studies in areas of immediate relevance to the 
environmental planning and policy initiatives being undertaken by the Borrower on 
biodiversity conservation. 2.
Establishment of a computerized network, a geographic 
information system and a documentation center for SINIA.
3.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s environmental legal framework, including: (a) 
strengthening of the legal enforcement capabilities of PGR and FGR; and (b)
provision of training in environmental law for judges, attorneys and legal advisers of 
institutions involved in environmental management in the Borrower’s territory and of 
the Borrower’s environmental agencies. 
4.
Development and implementation of programs for environmental training, public 
information and education.
Part B:
Environmental Quality Assessment 
1.
Carrying out of pilot environmental impact assessments and environmental audits, 
including development of a methodology for public participation in environmental 
assessments in the sectors of forestry, agro-industry, mining and energy. 
2.
Strengthening  of SINEIA, through the provision of equipment, technical 
assistance and training for agencies of high priority sectors, such as forestry, 
agro-industry, mining and energy.
Part C:
Local Government Environmental Management
1.
Strengthening of the capabilities of Selected Municipalities to undertake 
Page  7
environmental management activities, through:
(a)
provision of: (i) technical assistance for preparation of: (A) municipal 
environmental diagnostics; (B) municipal action plans for the implementation of the 
recommendations of such diagnostics; and (C) municipal land use plans; and (ii) 
training and workshops on environmental matters; and 
(b)
acquisition of equipment, tools and materials required for such 
management activities. 
2.
(a)
Preparation of  approximately 25 pre-investment studies for environmental 
investments at municipal and community levels consisting, inter alia, of: (i) 
construction and rehabilitation of urban and community parks; (ii) urban and small 
industry solid waste collection, processing, disposal and recycling projects; (iii) 
construction of septic tanks and oxidation ponds; (iv) construction of small 
infrastructure facilities for the protection and rehabilitation of water wells, 
watersheds, and other natural water sources; (v) planting and maintenance of 
windbreaks; (vi) construction of erosion prevention drainage ditches and other minor 
infrastructure; (vii) construction of community and family operated eco-tourism 
facilities in and around Protected Areas; (viii)
posting of boundaries in 
demarcated Protected Areas; (ix) construction of small infrastructure facilities for 
the sustainable management and rehabilitation of community and traditional fishing 
operations; (x) alternative energy generation projects; and (xi) construction of high 
efficiency wood-burning stoves and ovens; and 
(b)
carrying out of such investments.
3.
Carrying out of studies concerning the role of small and micro-enterprises in 
environmental management areas, such as: 
(a)
eco-tourism; 
(b)
solid waste collection and recycling; and 
(c)
cottage industry pollution abatement. 
4.
Incorporation of environmental considerations in the design, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the investments and studies to be carried out under Parts 
C.2 and C.3 above.
Part D:
Administration and Project Coordination 
1.
Strengthening of SERNA’s administrative capabilities including the design and 
implementation of a sound budgeting and accounting system. 
2.
Administration, monitoring and evaluation of the other Parts of the Project. 
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of audit and procurement 
activities under the Project. 
4.
Carrying out of preparatory activities for a potential environmental project in 
Honduras.
Part E:
Hurricane Mitch Emergency Assistance  
1.
Carrying out of the design and supervision of the investments referred to in 
Part E.2 below.
2.
Carrying out of emergency infrastructure investments, acceptable to the 
Association, in the riverbed of the Choluteca river in the city of Tegucigalpa, such 
as: (a) partial removal of the landslide currently blocking the flow of such river; 
(b) strengthening of the river defenses, including levees and other related river 
protection investments affected by the floods caused by Hurricane Mitch which are 
adjacent to populated areas; (c) cleaning and dredging of the river bed; (d) cleaning 
of bridges; (e) demolition of public and private buildings located within the river 
bed; (f) construction of a sanitary disposal facility at Tegucigalpa’s municipal dump; 
and (g) installation of drainage systems to mitigate any further landslides of the El 
Page  8
Berrinche hill. 
3.
Carrying out of a disease vector control program to address the environmental 
health problems caused by Hurricane Mitch.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 1999.”.
ANNEX 3
“SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C.5 of this Section, vehicles, computers, 
computer-related equipment and Laboratory and Field Equipment, or packages thereof, 
estimated to cost: 
(a)
the equivalent of  $50,000 or more, per contract, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof); and  
(b)
less than the equivalent of $50,000, per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $150,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Goods or packages of goods (except vehicles, computers, computer-related 
equipment and Laboratory and Field Equipment and as provided in Part C.5 of this 
Section), estimated to cost: 
(a)
the equivalent of $25,000 or more, per contract, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b)
less than the equivalent of $25,000, per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to  $50,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Except as otherwise provided in Parts C.4 and C.5 of this Section, civil works 
estimated to cost: 
(a)
the equivalent of $70,000 or more, per contract, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
less than the equivalent of $70,000, per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three contractors eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association; and 
(c)
less than the equivalent of $35,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $820,000, and to be contracted in remote areas where the 
procedure referred to in subparagraph (b) above is not feasible, may be awarded after 
direct negotiations with contractors, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Page  9
Association. 
4.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C.5 of this Section, civil works under Part 
E.2 of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least four contractors eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
Civil works and goods under Parts E.2 and E.3 of the Project, respectively, 
which are required to respond to the natural disaster caused by Hurricane Mitch, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,550,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the 
Guidelines.
Part B:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts: 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A.1 (a) of this Section; and (ii) the first three contracts for 
goods and works to be awarded each year by: (A) the Borrower, through SERNA; and (B) 
FHIS, pursuant to the provisions of Parts A.2 (a) and A.3 (a) of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of  such contract. 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph 
(a), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special 
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure. (d)
The figure of 10% is hereby specified 
for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part C:
Standard Bidding Documents 
In the procurement of goods under Part A.1 (a) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms. In the procurement of goods and works under Parts A.2 (a) 
and A.3 (a) of this Section the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Association. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and FHIS in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ and cause FHIS to employ consultants, whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Association in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Association, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  10
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: 
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $30,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than 
$10,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection 
of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$10,000 equivalent or above. 
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Parts A.2 (a) and A.3 (a) of 
Section I of this Schedule: 
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to: 
(i) 
be registered in Honduras; 
(ii)
have a representative in Honduras; 
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and 
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in competitive bidding procedures under equal 
conditions with other bidders. 
3.
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule: 
1.
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection process 
even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being procured. 
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
