Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2693-HO
                        Development Credit Agreement
                     (Environmental Development Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated June 21, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2693-HO
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Page  2
Agreement.
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)   "Budget Letter" means the Borrowerþs letter,
satisfactory to the Association, that  establishes the
counterpart funds to be allocated each year in the Borrowerþs
annual budgets until the completion  of  the Project;
       (b)   "FGR" means Fiscalia General de la Republica, the
Borrowerþs Public Prosecutorþs Office;
       (c)   "FHIS" means Fondo Hondureno de Inversion Social, the
Borrowerþs Social Investment Fund established as a public
entity with juridical personality pursuant to Decree No. 12-90,
whose duration was extended until March 2, 2002, by Decree No.
153-94 of December 24, 1994;
       (d)   "FHIS Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
       (e)   "FHIS Environmental Unit" means the unit referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) (B) of this Agreement;
       (f)   "Instituto" means Instituto de Investigaciones
Juridicas de la Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Honduras, the
Institute of Legal Research of the Autonomous National
University of Honduras;
       (g)   "Instituto Agreement" means the agreement referred to
in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
       (h)   "Laboratory and Field Equipment" means any equipment
for environmental and field analysis, such as instruments for
the measurement of pollutants, spectrophotometers,
thermometers, glassware, tents, binoculars, backpacks and
sleeping bags;
       (i)   "Operational Manual" means the Borrowerþs manual
dated February 24, 1995, detailing all the operational aspects
of the execution of the Project, including, inter alia, model
bidding documents, letters of invitation, disbursement
procedures, procedures for the operation of the line of credit
under Part C.4 of the Project and the Project implementation
indicators;
       (j)   "PAAD" means Plan de Accion de Ambiente y Desarrollo,
the Borrowerþs environment and development action plan prepared
by the Borrower in June 1993;
       (k)   "PCU" means the Project coordination unit established
within SEDA and referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
       (l)   "PGR" means Procuraduria General de la Republica, the
Borrowerþs Attorney General Office;
       (m)   "Protected Areas" are the areas officially designated
by the Borrower to be under a special management regime for the
primary purpose of ensuring their ecological integrity, such as
national parks, wildlife refuges and natural reserves;
       (n)   "SECPLAN" means Secretaria de Coordinacion,
Planificacion y Presupuesto, the Borrowerþs Ministry of
Coordination, Planning and Budget;
       (o)   "SEDA" means Secretaria del Ambiente, the Borrowerþs
Page  3
Ministry of the Environment;
       (p)   "Selected Municipalities" means the municipalities,
satisfactory to the Association, selected by the Borrower for
the purposes of participating in the carrying out of Part C.1
of the Project;
       (q)   "SINEIA" means Sistema Nacional de Evaluacion de
Impacto Ambiental, the Borrowerþs national system for
environmental impact assessment, provided in the Borrowerþs
environmental law (Decree No. 104-93) and the regulation
thereof;
       (r)   "SINIA" means Sistema Nacional de Informacion
Ambiental, the Borrowerþs  National Environmental Information
System referred to in Part A.2 of the Project;
       (s)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
       (t)   "SRN" means Secretaria de Recursos Naturales, the
Borrowerþs Ministry of Natural Resources;
       (u)   "Subloans" means the loans to be granted under Part
C.4 of the Project;
       (v)   "Supreme Courtþs Judicial School" means the school
for training of the members of the Borrowerþs judicial branch
of government;
       (w)   "Training Agreement" means an agreement, satisfactory
to the Association, to be entered into between  SEDA and the
Supreme Courtþs Judicial School for the purposes of carrying
out of Part A.3 (d) of the Project; and
       (x)   "UOT" means the unit established within SECPLAN and
referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seven million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR7,400,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank (Banco Central de Honduras) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
Page  4
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15  and September 15 in each
year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September
15 commencing September 15, 2005 and ending March 15, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
Page  5
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: (a) shall carry out: (i) Parts A.1
(a) and (d), A.2, A.3 (a) and (b),  A.4, B, C.1 and D of the
Project, through SEDA; (ii) Part A.1 (b) of the Project,
through SNR; (iii) Part A.1 (c) of the Project, through
SECPLAN; (iv) Part A.3 (c) through PGR and FGR; and (v) Part
A.3 (d) of the Project through SEDA with the assistance of the
Supreme Courtþs Judicial School, pursuant to the Training
Agreement; and (b) shall cause  FHIS to carry out Parts C.2,
C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project, all with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial, administrative, technical and environmental
practices and the provisions of the Operational Manual, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for such Parts of the
Project.
       Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of Section 3.01 (b)
above, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with FHIS,
satisfactory to the Association, providing, inter alia, for:
             (i)    the provision to FHIS of the funds,
                    facilities, services and other resources
                    required to enable FHIS to carry out Parts
                    C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project,
                    including the transfer of the proceeds of the
                    Credit allocated to such Parts of the Project;
             (ii)   the obligation of FHIS to carry out such Parts
                    of the Project in accordance with the terms
                    and conditions set forth in this Agreement,
                    including the obligation: (A) to maintain
                    records and accounts pursuant to the
                    provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
                    (B) the obligation of FHIS to maintain and
                    operate a unit, within FHIS, with staff
                    satisfactory to the Association, responsible
                    for carrying out Part C.5 of the Project; and
                    (C) to carry out the obligations set forth in
                    Sections 9.03. 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of
                    the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
                    use of goods and services, plans and
                    schedules, records and reports and
                    maintenance, respectively), in respect of
                    Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project;
            (iii)   environmental review criteria and
                    procedures for selection and evaluation
                    of investments and ventures under Parts
                    C.2 (b) and C.4 of the Project; and
             (iv)   the role of SEDA in the approval and
                    monitoring of such investments and ventures.
       (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the FHIS Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Association,
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the FHIS Agreement or
any provision thereof.
       Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to
Page  6
the Association for its review and approval, not later than
November 30 of each year until the completion of the Project,
beginning in 1995, a draft of the Project operating plan and
budget, in accordance with the Budget Letter, for the
succeeding calendar year.
       Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, not later than  April 30,
July 31, October 31  and January  31  during the first  year of
Project execution, and not later than July 31 and January 31
thereafter until the  completion of the Project, a report of
such scope and detail as the Association may reasonably request
on the implementation of the Project during the three or six
calendar months, as the case may be, preceding the month in
which the report shall be furnished to the Association.
       Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    undertake annual reviews of Project
                    implementation with the Association, not later
                    than March 31 of each year during Project
                    implementation, beginning in 1996; and
             (ii)   undertake  an in depth Project implementation
                    mid-term review with the Association, not
                    later than September 30, 1998.
       (b)   As part of each such review, the Association may
require that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory
to the Association, to make adjustments in Project
implementation. The Borrower shall furnish such action plan to
the Association no later than one month after the conclusion of
such review and shall thereafter carry out such action plan in
accordance with its terms.
       Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
       (a)   SEDA, SECPLAN and SRN to enter, not later than July
3, 1995, into an administrative arrangement, satisfactory to
the Association, to determine their functions and
responsibilities with respect to Project implementation, with
special emphasis to Part A.1 of the Project;  and
       (b)   SEDA, PGR and FGR to enter, not later than October 1,
1995, into an administrative arrangement, satisfactory to the
Association, to determine the functions and responsibilities of
PGR and FGR with respect to Project implementation,  with
special emphasis on the enforcement of environmental laws and
regulations.
       Section 3.08. (a) For the purposes of Part A.3 (a) of the
Project  the Borrower shall enter, not later than October 1,
1995, into an agreement, satisfactory to the Association, with
the Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Honduras, acting through
the Instituto, regarding:
             (i)    the establishment of a computerized
                    information system in the Instituto;
             (ii)   the procedures and principles governing the
                    exchange of information stored in the
                    Institutoþs computerized database;
Page  7
            (iii)   the provision to the Instituto of the
                    funds, facilities, services and other
                    resources required to enable the
                    Instituto to carry out the activity under
                    (i) above;
             (iv)   the operation and maintenance of the
                    computerized system referred to in (i) above;
                    and (v) the obligation of the Instituto to
                    take out and maintain with responsible
                    insurers, or to make other provision
                    satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
                    of the equipment of such computerized
                    information system against such risks and in
                    such amounts as shall be consistent with
                    appropriate practice.
       (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the Instituto Agreement in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the
Instituto Agreement or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall enter, not later than
July 3, 1995, into an agreement, satisfactory to the
Association, with each of the Selected Municipalities,
regarding their participation in the implementation of Part C.1
of the Project.
       (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the agreements referred to in (a)
above, in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce said agreements or any provision thereof.
       Section 3.10. For the purposes of carrying out Part D.2 of
the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   maintain and operate until the completion of the
Project, within SEDA, a unit (PCU) with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association which shall
include, inter alia:
             (i)    coordination of the implementation of the
                    Project;
             (ii)   monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
            (iii)   preparation of: (A) the operating plans
                    and budgets referred to in Section 3.03
                    of this Agreement; and  (B) the reports
                    referred to in Section 3.05 of this
                    Agreement;
             (iv)   procurement of goods under Parts A, B, C.1 and
                    D of the Project; and
             (v)    maintenance of the records and separate
                    accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of
                    this Agreement; and
       (b)   ensure that PCU is at all times staffed with an
adequate number of full-time professionals with qualifications
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, and shall
be assisted by clerical staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.11. For the purposes of carrying out Part A.1
(c) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  8
       (a)   maintain and operate until the completion of the
Project, within SECPLAN, a land use planning unit (UOT) with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association
which shall include, inter alia:
             (i)    updating of environmental baseline maps; and
             (ii)   preparation of land use strategies; and
       (b)   ensure that UOT is at all times staffed with an
adequate number of professionals with qualifications and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, assisted by
clerical staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.12. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
       (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of:
             (i)    the departments or agencies of the Borrower
                    responsible for carrying out Parts A, B, C.1
                    and D of the Project with respect to such
                    Parts of the Project; and
             (ii)   FHIS with respect to Parts C.2, C.3, C.4 and
                    C.5 of the Project.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
             (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than six
                    months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have
                    reasonably requested; and
            (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                    information concerning said records,
                    accounts and the audit thereof as the
Page  9
                    Association shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
             (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit report for
                    the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                    from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                    Special Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures;
            (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                    to examine such records; and
             (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their
                    preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   Decree No. 12-90 or Decree No. 153-94 or any
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of
FHIS to perform any of its obligations under the FHIS
Agreement;
       (b)   FHIS or Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Honduras,
acting through the Instituto, shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations under the FHIS Agreement or the
Instituto Agreement; and
       (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of FHIS or the Instituto.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified: (a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur;  and  (b) any event specified in
paragraphs (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
                                 ARTICLE VI
Page  10
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)   that a draft of the Project operating plan and budget
for the remaining 1995 calendar year has been furnished to the
Association; and
       (b)   that the Association has received the Budget Letter.
       Section 6.02.   The date September 19, 1995 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
       Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 3.12 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earliest.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. The  Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de
Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de
             Hacienda y Credito Publico
             Tegucigalpa, D.C.
             Honduras
                   Cable address:                 Telex:
                         HACIENDA                 1308
                         Tegucigalpa              HACIENDA HO
       For the Association:
             International Development
             Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
                   Cable address:                 Telex:
                         INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                         Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
Page  11
                         REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                         By /s/ Roberto Flores Burmudez
                                                   Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
        Category             SDR Equivalent     to be Financed
(1)  Goods                      750,000         100%
(2)  Goods, works and         1,700,000         100%
     consultants' services
     under Part C.2 (b) of the
     Project
(3)  Subloans                   280,000         100% of amounts
                                                disbursed under the
                                                Subloans
(4)  Consultants' services    3,640,000         100%
     and training
(5)  Incremental recurrent      310,000         100% of payments made
     expenditures                               during 1995 and 1996;
                                                60% of payments made
                                                during 1997 and 1998 and
                                                20% of payments made
                                                during 1999 and 2000
(6)  Goods, consultants'         510,000        100%
     services and operational
     expenditures under Part
     D.2 of the Project
(7)  Unallocated                 210,000
          TOTAL                7,400,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "incremental recurrent expenditures" means
expenditures to be incurred by the Borrower as a result of the
execution of the Project, such as salaries, operating costs and
office materials;
       (b)   the term "operational expenditures" means
Page  12
expenditures required for the operation of the PCU such as
office supplies, utility services and rent; and
       (c)   the term "training" means the activities required to
transfer the knowledge and experience of environmental matters
under the scope of the Project, and includes, inter alia,
expenditures incurred for: workshops, seminars, scholarships,
travel expenses and per diem of trainees, materials and
supplies.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
       (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed SDR740,000, may be made on account of payments
related to: (i) the establishment and operation of PCU, FHIS
Environmental Unit and UOT; and (ii) expenditures under Part
C.1 of the Project, before that date but after July 1, 1994.
       (b)   payments made for expenditures under any investment
included in Part C.2 (b) of the Project, unless the Association
shall have approved the study under Part C.2 (a) of the Project
prepared for such investment;
       (c)   payments made for expenditures under any
environmental venture included in Part C.4 of the Project,
unless the Association shall have approved the study under Part
C.3 of the Project in respect of such venture;
       (d)   payments made for expenditures made under Part A.3
(d) of the Project, unless the Training Agreement shall have
been entered into by the parties thereto; and
       (e)   payments made for expenditures made under Parts C.2,
C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project, unless the FHIS Agreement has
been entered into by the parties thereto.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for: (a) incremental recurrent expenditures and operational
expenditures under categories (5) and (6), respectively, of the
table in paragraph 1 hereof; (b) works; and (c) goods and
consultantsþ services under contracts costing less than the
equivalent of: (i) $50,000 in the case of goods; (ii) $30,000
in the case of consulting firmsþ services; and (iii) $10,000 in
the case of individual consultantsþ services, all under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. However, the provisions of subparagraphs (b)
and (c) above shall not apply to the first three contracts to
be awarded each year by the Borrower or FHIS, pursuant to the
provisions of Parts A.3 (a) and A.2 (a) of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, respectively.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are: (a) strengthening of
the institutional capabilities of the Borrowerþs agencies
involved in: (i) environmental and natural resource planning;
(ii) environmental policy, legal and regulatory framework
development; (iii) environmental inter-agency and inter-
sectorial coordination activities; (iv) environmental
monitoring activities; and (v) enforcement of environmental
laws and regulations; (b) design and implementation of a system
for preparing and processing environmental impact assessments
and environmental audits in high priority sectors, such as
forestry, agro-industry, mining and energy; (c) development of
the environmental management capabilities of Selected
Municipalities; and (d) provision of a pilot line of credit for
environmental investments of small and micro-enterprises.
Page  13
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Environmental Planning and Legislation
1.     (a)  Consolidation of the PAAD into a permanent
environmental planning process, including:
             (i)    review, evaluation and updating of the PAAD;
             (ii)   the preparation every two years of: (A)
                    national environmental profiles; and (B)
                    environmental policy papers; and
            (iii)   the preparation of: (A) SEDAþs annual
                    operating plans; and (B) annual
                    environmental investment plans, all in
                    consistency with the framework laid out
                    by the PAAD.
       (b) strengthening of SRNþs Agriculture Sector Planning
Unit to enable it to implement the Borrowerþs current natural
resources management policies in accordance with the
environmental management objectives of the PAAD;
       (c) preparation of a land use plan consistent with: (i)
the Borrowerþs development policies and strategies; and (ii)
the framework laid out by the PAAD; and
       (d) carrying out of studies in areas of immediate
relevance to the environmental planning and policy initiatives
being undertaken by the Borrower, such as: (i) economic
incentives for environmental management; (ii) biodiversity
conservation; and (iii) solid waste management.
2.     Design, development and administration of the SINIA,
including  the establishment of:
       (a)   a computerized network;
       (b)   a geographic information system; and
       (c)   a documentation center.
3.     Strengthening of the Borrowerþs environmental legal
framework, including:
       (a)   harmonization of environmental law and regulations;
       (b)   design of a methodology to develop environmental
norms and technical standards;
       (c)   strengthening of the legal enforcement capabilities
of PGR and FGR; and
       (d)   provision of training in environmental law for
judges, attorneys and legal advisers of institutions involved
in environmental management in the Borrowerþs territory and of
the Borrowerþs environmental agencies.
4.     Development and implementation of programs for
environmental training, public information and education.
Part B:      Environmental Quality Assessment
1.     Carrying out of pilot environmental impact assessments and
environmental audits, including development of a methodology
for public participation in environmental assessments in the
sectors of forestry, agro-industry, mining and energy.
Page  14
2.     Strengthening  of SINEIA, through the provision of
equipment, technical assistance and training for agencies of
high priority sectors, such as forestry, agro-industry, mining
and energy.
Part C:      Local Government Environmental Management
1.     Strengthening of the capabilities of Selected
Municipalities to undertake environmental management
activities, through:
       (a)   provision of: (i) technical assistance for
preparation of: (A) municipal environmental diagnostics; (B)
municipal action plans for the implementation of the
recommendations of such diagnostics; and (C) municipal land use
plans; and (ii) training and workshops on environmental
matters; and
       (b)   acquisition of equipment, tools and materials
required for such management activities.
2.     (a)   Preparation of  approximately 25 pre-investment
studies for environmental investments at municipal and
community levels consisting, inter alia, of:
             (i)    construction and rehabilitation of urban and
                    community parks;
             (ii)   urban and small industry solid waste
                    collection, processing, disposal and recycling
                    projects;
            (iii)   construction of septic tanks and
                    oxidation ponds;
             (iv)   construction of small infrastructure
                    facilities for the protection and
                    rehabilitation of water wells, watersheds, and
                    other natural water sources;
             (v)    planting and maintenance of windbreaks;
             (vi)   construction of erosion prevention drainage
                    ditches and other minor infrastructure;
            (vii)   construction of community and family
                    operated eco-tourism facilities in and
                    around Protected Areas;
            (viii)  posting of boundaries in demarcated
                    Protected Areas;
             (ix)   construction of small infrastructure
                    facilities for the sustainable management and
                    rehabilitation of community and traditional
                    fishing operations;
             (x)    alternative energy generation projects; and
             (xi)   construction of high efficiency wood-burning
                    stoves and ovens; and (b) carrying out of such
                    investments.
3.     Carrying out of studies concerning the role of small and
micro-enterprises in environmental management areas, such as:
       (a)   eco-tourism;
       (b)   solid waste collection and recycling; and
       (c)   cottage industry pollution abatement.
Page  15
4.     Establishment and operation of a line of credit to finance
environmental ventures of small and micro-enterprises in areas
such as:
       (a)   eco-tourism;
       (b)   solid waste collection and recycling; and
       (c)   cottage industry pollution abatement.
5.     Incorporation of environmental considerations in the
design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the
investments, ventures and studies to be carried out under Parts
C.2, C.3 and C.4 above.
Part D:      Administration and Project Coordination
1.     Strengthening of SEDAþs administrative capabilities
including the design and implementation of a sound budgeting
and accounting system.
2.     Administration, monitoring and evaluation of the other
Parts of the Project.
3.     Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
audit and procurement activities under the Project.
                                    * * *
          The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      Procurement Procedures
1.     Vehicles, computers, computer related equipment and
Laboratory and Field Equipment, or packages thereof, estimated
to cost:
       (a)   the equivalent of  $50,000 or more, per contract,
shall be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines)
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof); and
       (b)   less than the equivalent of $50,000, per contract, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$150,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.     Goods or packages of goods (except vehicles, computers,
computer related equipment and Laboratory and Field Equipment),
estimated  to cost:
       (a)   the equivalent of $25,000 or more, per contract,
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  16
       (b)   less than the equivalent of $25,000, per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to  $50,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
3.     Civil works estimated to cost:
       (a)   the equivalent of $70,000 or more, per contract,
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association;
       (b)   less than the equivalent of $70,000, per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three contractors
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association; and
       (c)   less than the equivalent of $35,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $820,000, and to be
contracted in remote areas where the procedure referred to in
subparagraph (b) above is not feasible, may be awarded after
direct negotiations with contractors, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.     Goods and works to be financed by Subloans may be procured
in accordance with commercial practices satisfactory to the
Association.
Part B:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts: (a) With respect to: (i) each contract to be
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part A.1 (a) of this
Section; and (ii) the first three contracts for goods and works
to be awarded each year by: (A) the Borrower, through SEDA; and
(B) FHIS, pursuant to the provisions of Parts A.2 (a) and A.3
(a) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of  such
contract.
       (b)    With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph (a), the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
       (d)   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part C:     Standard Bidding Documents
       In the procurement of goods under Part A.1 (a) of this
Page  17
Section, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms. In the procurement of goods and works under
Parts  A.2 (a) and A.3 (a) of this Section the Borrower shall
use standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist the Borrower and FHIS in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ and cause FHIS to employ
consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Association in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Association, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Association, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $30,000 equivalent each; or
       (b)   contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $10,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a)
the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $10,000 equivalent or
above.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of goods and works referred to in Parts A.2 (a) and
A.3 (a) of Section I of this Schedule:
1.     Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents,
and without taking into account, in the evaluation, the
financial cost of foreign exchange components.
2.     Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting
bids, be required to:
             (i) be registered in Honduras; (ii) have a
             representative in Honduras; (iii) be associated with
             Honduran suppliers or contractors; and (iv) certify
             that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers
             or contractors are allowed to participate in
             competitive bidding procedures under equal
             conditions with other bidders.
Page  18
3.     Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of
reducing contract amounts.
B.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the
following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II
of this Schedule:
       1. Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate
in the selection process even if there is availability of
Honduran consultants for the services being procured.
       2. Foreign consultants shall not be required to be
registered with Honduran associations or to be associated with
Honduran consulting firms as a condition for participating in
any selection process.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                               Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$750,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
       (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested;
       (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                    Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    requests for deposits into the Special Account
                    at such intervals as the Association shall
                    specify.
Page  19
             (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                    the documents and other evidence required
                    pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                    the payment or payments in respect of which
                    replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                    each such request, the Association shall, on
                    behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                    Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                    Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                    requested and as shall have been shown by said
                    documents and other evidence to have been paid
                    out of the Special Account for eligible
                    expenditures.
       All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
       (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
       (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
       (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
       Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
Page  20
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
       (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
       (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
       (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
