Report No. PIC4822
Project Name                   Togo-Public Enterprise Restructuring...
and Privatization
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Public Enterprise Reform
Project ID                     TGPA41280
Borrower                       Government of Togo
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of State Enterprises and Export
Processing Zone (MSE) Ministry of Mines,
Equipment, Transport and Post and
Telecommunications (MMETPT)
Ministry of Finance (MF)
Environment Category           C
Date PID Prepared              January 16, 1997
Projected Appraisal            July 1997
Projected Board Date           September 1997
Peer Reviewers                 Paul Bermingham, IENTI
Luke Haggarty, PSD
A.   Country and Sector Background
1.   Togo is a small country with a population of 4 million, well-
endowed with agricultural and mineral resources. Following a major
increase of phosphate prices in 1974, the Government undertook an
extremely ambitious public investment program which led to the
development of a large parastatal sector involved in most economic
activities. This strategy was not sustainable, however, and when
international prices dropped, Togo entered the 1980s with large internal
and external imbalances, a large non-performing parastatal sector and a
decline in GDP.
2.   In the 1980s and early 1990s, Togo implemented, with the support of
the IMF and the Bank, four adjustment programs aiming at restoring
financial stability and economic growth. Specific measures included a
major restructuring program for the Public Enterprise (PE) sector,
improving resource allocation and the incentive framework and reducing
the overall public finance deficits. In 1991, however, the country
entered into a period of political instability which significantly
hampered the continuation of the reform. The 1992/1993 general strike
paralyzed economic activities and most of the measures agreed upon under
the fourth structural adjustment credit came to a halt.
3.   Following the CFAF devaluation in January 1994 and after the
political situation was clarified in mid-1994, the new Government
redesigned a macro-economic framework and resumed the structural reforms
interrupted during the political turmoil. The situation improved
substantially and GDP growth reached 14%   in 1994 and 8% in 1995. The
Bank is supporting this program under an adjustment operation (ERAC)



approved by the Board in April 1996. In addition, a financial sector
adjustment operation is under preparation.
4.   Public Enterprise reform.   During the first three adjustments
operations, Togo implemented a public enterprise reform which achieved
substantial results. From an initial portfolio of 73 enterprises in
1983, 30 were privatized or liquidated in the 1980s. Comprehensive
financial and operational audits were carried out for most state-owned
and mixed enterprises. The Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises
(MSE), in charge of overseeing the Public enterprise sector, introduced
a new organizational structure in 1988 and set up a management
information support that was gradually extended to most PEs by December
1991. A comprehensive training program was carried out for staff of the
MSE and all PEs. A new legal framework for PEs was enacted in 1990 with
a view to better define the respective roles of the State, the boards of
directors and the managers of PEs; and make the PEs accountable for
their performance. Finally, as of January 1991, all PEs were subject to
the normal fiscal regime and performance contracts were signed between
the State and the Public utilities.
5.   The reform program was interrupted during the political turmoil in
1992-1993 and the situation of the sector worsened. The PE sector
includes some 40 enterprises which account for about 20t of employment
in the formal sector and about 20t of GDP. While GOT does not grant any
direct subsidies any longer, large indirect subsidies exist due to non-
payment of taxes, utilities, and debt service by non-performing PEs such
as the ten hotels and EDITOGO (Printing Press).
6.   The Public Enterprise program agreed upon under the ERAC aims at
privatizing PEs, restoring the monitoring of PEs through the MIS,
updating the performance contract for the water supply public utility as
well as carrying out financial and operational audits as appropriate for
major enterprises remaining in the State portfolio. Of the PEs, several
key enterprises were selected including OTP, the phosphate company in
which the Government agreed to sell 40t of the voting rights to a
strategic investor; 10 state-owned hotels located both in Lome and in
the countryside, all of them operating at loss and unable to pay their
utilities or salaries to employees and the cocoa marketing board (OPAT).
This program is scheduled to be carried out under the ERAC during 1996 -
1997. To date, GOT has already sold three PEs, 12 additional ones have
been put up for sale and two have been liquidated.
7.   Posts and Telecom reform.   The PT sector is characterized by: (a)
an overstaffed postal sector operating at loss and subsided by the
Telecoms sector, with an oversized network of postal agencies, and
inefficient sorting and delivery systems; (b) a telecoms sector where
Togo Telecom does not meet existing solvent demand (waiting list of
about 8,000 declared potential users), operates a saturated network of
about 24,000 main lines (0.6 per 100 inhabitants) with low productivity
levels, provides a limited range of services, makes profits due to high
international prices but cannot efficiently finance and implement the
level of investment required to serve the market. The GOT has decided to
undertake a major reform aiming at liberalizing the sector to promote
new services, improve efficiency and reduce costs. To that effect, it
has carried out several studies and workshops aiming at defining the new
- 2 -



structure of the sector. In February 1996, a sectoral policy declaration
was adopted by the Council of Ministers and the Government separated
postal and telecommunications activities by creating two distinct
entities. A new Telecommunications Law, which will allow competition in
the sector and create a regulatory body, is currently under preparation
with a view to enabling progressive liberalization of the sector.
8.   Financial sector.    Building on reforms in the real sector
described above, the Government is committed to implementing key reforms
aimed at improving the efficiency, competitiveness and breadth of the
financial system. The program, which is to be supported by an IDA-
financed adjustment operation would imply restructuring, privatization
or liquidation of selected commercial banks as well as other financial
institutions such as SNI (Societe Nationale d'Investissement), CET
(Caisse d'Epargne du Togo), insurance companies and the National Social
Security Fund. It will also support actions in order to improve the
banking environment, particularly with respect to the treatment of
banking cases by local courts; and initiatives and promote the emergence
of semi-formal and informal institutions serving operators with no
access to the banking system.
B.   Project Objectives
9.   The primary objective of the project is to support Government
policy of divestiture from commercial activities and promote private
sector participation in the productive sectors. Specific objectives are:
(a) to reduce the size of the Public Enterprise portfolio; (b) reform
the Post and Telecommunications (PT) sector in order to improve access,
price and diversity of communications services, via increased
competition; and (c) support institutional reform and capacity building
in the financial sector complementing policy reform undertaken under the
upcoming FINSAC.
C.   Project Description
10. The proposed project would include three components: (a) Public
Enterprise Reform and Privatization; (b) Post and Telecommunications
Reform; and (c) Financial Sector Restructuring.
Public Enterprise Component. It will provide support to implement the
privatization program agreed upon under the ERAC ( enterprises from
various productive and service sectors as well as an additional
program to be agreed upon during appraisal); provide financing to
support a retrenchment plan in line with the guidelines defined in the
operational memorandum dated March 5, 1996; and support actions to
improve the performance of the few PEs still remaining in the State
portfolio.
Post and Telecom Component. It will provide support to implement the
Post and Telecommunications reform including the establishment of the
new regulatory framework, the actions required to increase access to
communications and information, restructure the Posts and reduce the
subsidies over a three-year period.
Financial Sector Restructuring Component. It will provide the
- 3 -



resources to support the policy reforms to be carried out under the
FINSAC including restructuring of inefficient financial institutions
such as SNI, GTA and CET, improving the legal/judiciary environment
for banking and structure the micro-finance sector in order to promote
the emergence of new types of financial institutions that will
mobilize deposits and extend credit and other financial services to
economic agents that are unserved or underserved by existing formal
institutions.
D.   Project implementation
11. The MSE will be in charge of overall management of the project.
Privatization and PE restructuring will be carried out by the two
directorates in MSE in charge of privatization and PE monitoring
respectively. PT reform will be carried out by a team at MMETPT, and
Financial sector restructuring will be monitored by the Secretary
General of MF.
E.   Project Costs and Financing
12. A credit equivalent to US$18 million is proposed. GOT's
contribution has been tentatively estimated at US$2 million. However,
the cost of financing severance packages has not been estimated yet.
F.   Environmental Aspects
13. The project is not expected to have any direct adverse
environmental impact. The project is in Environmental Category C.
G.   Lessons Learned From Previous IDA Involvement
14.     Privatization programs have been previously supported by three
TA projects and one pre-investment credit. Lessons learned included in
the present operation are to: (a) ensure that an appropriate
institutional framework is in place and contract out the preparation of
the transactions as much as possible; (b) ensure availability of
resources to finance severance packages to employees to be laid-off in
the privatization/restructuring process; (c) increase Togolese awareness
and support for the program through an effective communication strategy;
and (d) increase investor confidence through a better environment and a
transparent process. The proposed operation will be the first entirely
dedicated to the public enterprise reform.
H.   Poverty Category
15. The proposed project does not focus directly on poverty
alleviation. However, it is expected to contribute to poverty
alleviation. In particular, it will support actions to alleviate the
burden of non-performing PEs on public finances in order to reallocate
public expenditures toward basic services and infrastructure. It will
promote the development of economic growth which will lead to job
creation, through greater contribution of the private sector to the
economy.
I.   Project Benefits
-4-



16. Divestiture of GOT from most PEs will contribute to: (a) improve
the competitiveness of the economy through cheaper and more efficient
services; (b) provide a larger scope for private sector intervention;
(c) alleviate fiscal burden of non-performing PEs on public finances;
(d) provide PEs with adequate financing to pay severance packages; (e)
reduce the role of the State in the PE sector; and (f) improve the
performance of the few key PEs still remaining in the Government
portfolio. An effective communication strategy on the privatization
program will provide better information and will promote public
acceptance of the program.
17. Implementing the PT reform will: (a) improve the regulatory
environment; (b) promote new services; and (c) attract the financial
resources required to increase the teledensity. Increased access to
communications and more effective acquisition of information will
particularly target the disadvantaged groups.
18. Restructuring the financial sector will help to: (a) strengthen
financial institutions; (b) develop new financial services for micro and
small enterprises, and (c) enable households to have access to credit
and improve their savings.
J.   Project Risks
19. Vested interests who benefit from existing PEs may succeed in
weakening the Government's commitment to implement the privatization and
restructuring program. To address this issue, a broad communication
strategy will be implemented to inform and build local ownership to the
program. The GOT will adopt strategies aimed at broadening local
participation in the privatization process including public offerings
and allocation of shares to the employees of divested entities. Another
risk is that overall speed of execution could be reduced by an
inefficient institutional framework. This risk will be minimized by
ensuring that all parties involved are adequately informed of their
roles and responsibilities, designing clear privatization procedures and
implementing training sessions.
Contact Point: Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly
The World Bank
1818H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No: (202) 473-6264
Fax No: (202) 477-2978
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 14, 1997.
- 5 -



