Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3045 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 2, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3045 TO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated September 15, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the performance of its public sector and to promote sector development (the Program) 
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If: (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Alafia” means Consortium Alafia, a non-governmental organization, 
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(b)
“BTD” means Banque Togolaise de Développement, established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(c)
“CAS-IMEC” means the Cellule d’Appui et de Suivi des Institutions 
Mutualistes ou Coopératives d’Epargne et de Crédit of MEF;
(d)
“CNC” means the Borrower’s Comité National de Coordination, established 
and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(e)
“DIGA” means Direction de l’Information et de l’Audit of MSE;
(f)
“DP” means Direction du Portefeuille of MSE;
(g)
“Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine” and “CFAF” mean the 
currency of the Borrower;
(h)
“FUCEC” means Fédération des Unions des Coopératives d’Epargne et de 
Crédit, a non-governmental organization, established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(i)
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance;
Page  3
(j)
“MMETPT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines, Equipment, Transport, 
Post and Telecommunications;
(k)
“MSE” means the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for State Enterprises;
(l)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan described in the Borrower’s 
letter, dated December 13, 1997, specifying, inter alia, procedures and other 
arrangements agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association for the purpose of 
the implementation of the Project;
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
April 25, 1997 and May 13, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association;
(n)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
“SPT” means Société des Postes du Togo, established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 96-22/PR of February 28, 1996;
(p)
“TOGO TELECOM” means Société des Télécommunications du Togo, established 
and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 96-22/PR of February 28, 1996; and
(q)
“UCP” means Unité de Coordination du Projet, established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 22,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account A), for the purposes of 
Parts B and D of the Project, open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account 
(Special Account B), and for the purposes of Part C of the Project, open and maintain 
in CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account C), all in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of each Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2008 and ending February 15, 
2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (A) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (B) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
open, and maintain for the duration of the implementation of the Project, 
an account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $70,000 
(the Initial Deposit) and thereafter, at annual intervals, deposit into the Project 
Account an amount equivalent to the Initial Deposit; and 
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) above shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s share of  
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
Page  6
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been hired in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
(i) the Project Account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement, has been opened, and (ii) the Borrower has made the Initial Deposit 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lomé
Republic of Togo
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIE
5286
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s/ Frédéric Edem Hegbe 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ted Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under
   750,000
90%
Part B of the Project
Page  8
(2)
Equipment
100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) under Part A of
   250,000
90% of local
the Project
expenditures
(b) under Parts B
 1,900,000
and D of the Project
(c) under Part C of
   600,000
the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
100%
(a) under Part A of
 4,600,000
the Project
(b) under Parts B and
 4,400,000
D of the Project
(c) under Part C of
 1,900,000
the Project
(4)
Training
100%
(a) under Part A of
   300,000
the Project
(b) under Parts B and
   500,000
D of the Project
(c) under Part C of
   700,000
the Project
(5)
Severance payments
 3,100,000
80% of expenditures
incurred
(6)
Incremental operating
90%
cost
(a) under Part A of
   250,000
the Project
(b) under Parts B and
   100,000
D of the Project
(c) under Part C of
   400,000
the Project
(7)
Refunding of Project
   850,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
 1,400,000
TOTAL
22,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
Page  9
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management, auditing and monitoring, 
including office supplies, telecommunications costs, vehicle operation, travel and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service; 
and 
(d)
the term “severance payments” means payments made by the Borrower’s 
public enterprises selected for privatization to their employees separated pursuant to 
the Borrower’s separation program described in the Borrower’s letter of December 13, 
1997.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
2,200,000, may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after February 28, 1997; and 
(b)
expenditures under Category (1), unless the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association evidence satisfactory to the Association showing that a private sector 
operator, acceptable to the Association, has been hired, in accordance with the 
Program, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association to manage the 
operations of SPT.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods 
and works, under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (b) consultants' 
services, under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$50,000 for individual consultants. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying its 
divestiture and private sector development program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Public Enterprise Restructuring and Privatization 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of DP to carry out the Borrower’s privatization 
program, through acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services 
and training. 
2.
Preparation and implementation of a program designed to restructure selected 
public enterprises of the Borrower with a view to improving their performance and 
efficiency, through acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services 
and training.  
3.
Carrying out of a public information campaign to inform potential investors of 
opportunities offered by the Borrower’s privatization program, to build public support 
for said program, and ensure transparency in its implementation, through the provision 
of technical advisory services.  
4.
Implementation of a program designed to facilitate the retrenchment of redundant 
staff of the Borrower’s public enterprises selected for privatization, through 
provision of severance payments, training, acquisition of equipment and provision of 
technical advisory services.
Part B:
Post and Telecommunications 
Page  10
1.
Establishment and operation of an autonomous authority responsible for the 
regulation of the Borrower’s telecommunications sector, through the acquisition of 
equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training. 
2.
Establishment of a frequency spectrum management system, through the acquisition 
of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training. 
3.
Preparation of strategies and policies designed to increase competition in the 
provision of telecommunication services, through provision of technical advisory 
services. 
4.
Implementation of a pilot program designed to test the feasibility and the 
viability of provision of telecommunication services by small-scale private operators 
with a view to improving the access of the Borrower’s population to telecommunication 
services, through acquisition of equipment and provision of technical advisory 
services and training. 
5.
Provision of technical advisory services for the privatization of TOGO TELECOM.
6.
Preparation and implementation of a program designed to improve the Borrower’s 
access to information technologies, through provision of training, acquisition of 
equipment and provision of technical and legal advisory services. 
7.
Improving the performance and efficiency of the Borrower’s postal agency, 
through provision of technical advisory services, including the services of a 
specialized private operator to manage the postal operations of SPT, and to provide 
training to agency staff. 
8.
Preparation and implementation of a program designed to diversify and expand the 
coverage of the Borrower’s postal services through provision of technical advisory 
services. 
9.
Rehabilitation of SPT’s main mail sorting center and selected post offices, and 
acquisition of office furniture and equipment, and acquisition and installation of 
postal boxes. 
Part C:
Financial Sector 
1.
Preparation and implementation of a program designed to improve the performance 
and efficiency of the Borrower’s financial sector, including restructuring, 
privatization, and sale of selected public financial institutions, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and severance payments for redundant staff of 
institutions selected for privatization. 
2.
Strengthening of the capacities of CAS-IMEC for the supervision and coordination 
of the activities of institutions engaged in the provision of micro-finance services 
in the territory of the Borrower, through acquisition of equipment, and provision of 
technical advisory services and training. 
3.
Dissemination of information and best practices among institutions engaged in 
the provision of micro-finance services, through acquisition of equipment, and 
provision of technical advisory services and training. 
4.
Strengthening the capacities of CNC with a view to enhancing the cooperation 
between the Borrower and institutions engaged in the provision of micro-finance 
services, through acquisition of equipment, and provision of advisory services and 
training.
5.
Strengthening the institutional and planning capacities of FUCEC, through 
provision of technical advisory services.  
6.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s legal and judicial system with a view to 
improving the security, predictability and enforceability of contractual transactions, 
through acquisition of equipment, and provision of technical advisory services and 
training.
Page  11
Part D:
Strengthening the Project Management
Strengthening of the capacity of the UCP to coordinate the implementation of the 
Project, including the preparation and audit of the accounts and financial statements 
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, through the acquisition of equipment 
and the provision of technical advisory services and training. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. Preference 
for domestically manufactured goods  The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured from IAPSO 
(Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization of the UN) in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association, for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  12
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods and works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for technical advisory services, estimated 
to cost less than $50,000  per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for small tasks for the monitoring of Parts A and C of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
annual plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  13
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the terms of 
reference, the qualifications, experience and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
MSE shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A of the Project, MMETPT 
shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B of the Project, MEF shall be 
responsible for the implementation of Part C of the Project, and PCU shall be 
responsible for the implementation of Part D of the Project as well as for the overall 
coordination of the Project activities.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and (b) not 
permit, the Project Implementation Plan, or any provision thereof, to be amended or 
waived in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3.
In accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, the Borrower shall: (a) for 
the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, enter into an agreement with Alafia under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association; (b) for the purposes of Parts B.7, 
B.8 and B.9 of the Project, enter into an agreement with SPT, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association; and (c) for the purposes of Part A.4 of the 
Project, enter into an agreement with BTD, under terms and conditions acceptable for 
the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Association for its review and comments quarterly progress 
reports on the status of the Project;
(c)
not later than March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 1999 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association, a joint annual review on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the progress achieved by 
the Borrower during the current fiscal year, having regard to the monitoring 
indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(d)
not later than one (1) month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed annual work program together with a 
proposed budget, a financing plan and a priority investment program, for the 
forthcoming fiscal year; and (ii) for its review, a report in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of the implementation of the 
Page  14
Project during the current year;
(e)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of the Project, or to implement such measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and 
(f)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association, a workshop for the launching of 
the Project implementation which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement and procurement 
procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project. 
5.
Midterm Review
(a)
Not later than December 31, 2000, or such other such later date as the 
Borrower and the Association shall agree upon,  the Borrower shall carry out jointly 
with the Association a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
under terms of reference agreed with the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four (4) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program. 
6.
Not later than August 31, 1998, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a 
plan, of such scope, and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, 
for the privatization of TOGO TELECOM in accordance with the Program, including the 
portion of TOGO TELECOM’s capital to be offered for sale. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (2) (a), (3) (a), (4) 
(a), (5) and (6) (a) with respect to Special Account A, Categories (1), (2) (b), (3) 
(b), (4) (b), and (6) (b) with respect to Special Account B, and Categories (2) (c), 
(3) (c), (4) (c), and (6) (c) with respect to Special Account C set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
300,000,000 in respect of the Special Account A, an amount equivalent to CFAF 
250,000,000 in respect of the Special Account B, and an amount equivalent to CFAF 
150,000,000 in respect of the Special Account C, to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)
The Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to FCFA 
175,000,000 in respect of Special Account A, until 
the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Categories (2) (a), (3) (a), 
(4) (a), (5) and (6) (a) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
(ii)
The Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
Page  15
to FCFA 
175,000,000 in respect of Special Account B, until 
the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Categories (1), (2) (b), (3) 
(b), (4) (b), and (6) (b) 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions for Parts B and D of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000.
(iii)
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to FCFA 
100,000,000 in respect of Special Account C, until 
the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account 
allocated to Categories (2) (c), (3) (c), 
(4) (c), and (6) (c) plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments  entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General 
Conditions for Part C of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the respective 
Special Account of an amount which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
Page  16
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories  shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. 
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
