Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK               Report No. P-1715-ZF
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
March 31, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Unit: Zaire)
Before March 12, 1976
US$1                                     Z 0.5
Z 1                                      US$2.0
Z 1,000                                  US$2,000
z 1,000,000                              US$2,000,000
After March 12, 1976 *
Z 1                                      US$1.18
z 1,000                                  US$1,180
Z 1,000,000                              US$1,180,000
Borrower's Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
*rhe parity of the zaire was realigned to 1 zaire = 1 SDR and the parity
of the zaire with the US dollar is, at present, 1 zaire = US$1.18.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of US$21 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a second education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Zaire in April-May 1974, and its
report entitled "The Economy of Zaire" (No. 821-ZR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 8, 1975. Country data are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zaire, the third largest country in Africa, is rich in mineral,
agricultural, forestry and energy resources, but the country is among the
poorest in terms of per capita income. The economy is vulnerable to changes
in world economic conditions, as demonstrated by the present crisis. The key
constraints to development are: (a) the shortage of skilled manpower and
the overall weakness of the institutions with direct development responsibili-
ties; (b) the very poor social conditions, particularly poor health and low
nutrition in both the urban and rural milieu; and (c) the deterioration of
the agricultural sector and of transport infrastructure.
4.        Few countries suffered as much disruption and chaos as did Zaire
in the first 6-7 years of its independence. Political order and stability
were established in 1967 and only then could the Government take a number of
economic measures. GDP grew by about 10 percent (in real terms) annually in
the subsequent years. In the same period, government savings rose to US$110
million in 1970, compared with a deficit in 1966, while capital expenditures
increased considerably. Zaire's resource surplus grew from US$15 million in
1966-67, to US$60 million in 1969-70. These favorable developments were due,
in part, to rising copper prices which increased by over 25 percent between
1967 and 1970 and to an increase in copper production which rose from 317,000
tons in 1966 to 385,000 tons in 1970.
5.        In 1970-74 growth slowed to about 5 percent.    Possibilities of growth
based on unutilized capacity in the manufacturing and service sectors gradual-
ly narrowed. Government policies favoring investment in modern infrastructure
(power, civil aviation, construction works) consumed resources that could have
been made available to more directly productive sectors. Lack of appropriate
project evaluation and selection processes resultee ,n the initiation of
investment projects whose return would not help tire servicing of the external
debt contracted for their financing. Moreover, these projects absorbed a
large part of the country's limited management resources, and reduced its
capacity to borrow for economically justifiable projects. Neglect of agricul-
ture and particularly adverse pricing policies led to declining agricultural
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



production, and to further diversion of resources to food imports for urban
consumption.
6.        Copper exports, which provided, on average, about 40 percent of
government revenues and two thirds of export earnings, were always important
in Zaire's financial structure. But increasing recourse to deficit financing
for government expenditures, and to foreign indebtedness for the expansion
of investments, greatly increased the economy's vulnerability to the fluctua-
tions of copper prices, particularly as the government made no attempt to
pursue any anti-cyclical budget or reserve policy. High copper prices in
1973 and in the early part of 1974 propelled government expenditures to very
high levels which made contraction difficult after copper prices declined
again.
7.        Growth of total government expenditures accelerated progressively
from an annual rate of about 5 percent in 1971-72 to 26 percent in 1973 and
66 percent in 1974, far beyond the resources that could be mobilized domestic-
ally. The Government deficit in 1974 reached 28 percent of expenditures, or
over 10 percent of GDP and was entirely financed by recourse to the banking
system. This, together with expansion of credit to nationalized firms, led
to severe price inflation, which reached a yearly rate of about 30 percent in
1974 and 40 percent in 1975.
8.        The structure of the country's external trade was weakened by the
decline of export agriculture starting in the early 1970's. The prevailing
exchange rate increasingly favored the expansion of import demand, while
wiping out most incentives for exports. The share of copper in merchandise
exports rose from 60 percent in 1972 to 70 percent in 1974. Imports of goods
and services rose at the yearly rate of 34 percent in 1973/74. In 1974, when
export earnings were at an all-time record level of US$1,340 million - almost
twice the 1972 level - and external borrowing reached an unprecedented US$400
million, the country's international reserves were drawn down by US$110 mil-
lion.
9.        Attempts by the Government in 1973 and 1974 to transfer foreign-
owned assets in agriculture, industry and commerce to private or public
Zairian ownership, without adequate advance preparation, further disrupted
the modern sectors of production and distribution. The Angolan conflict
added to these difficulties in 1975 by pushing government expenditures upwards,
and by disrupting the established traffic pattern to and from the copper
region of Shaba. This combination of government policies coupled with ex-
ternal factors such as the fall in copper prices, and continuing increases
in import prices, led directly to the severe financial crisis that the country
has been experiencing since early 1975.
10.       In 1975, especially in the second half of the year, the country was
faced with a severely confining situation. GDP was declining at the rate
of 3 percent, and per capita consumption in real terms by about 8 percent.
Unemployment was growing. The country's international reserves were virtually
exhausted. Imports of basic necessities were reduced and widespread scarci-
ties were appearing in the country. Service payments on several external
debts due in the second half of the year could not be made for lack of foreign
exchange.



- 3 -
II.       Zaire's medium and long term external debt outstanding at the end
of 1975, including undisbursed, was provisionally estimated at US$2.6 billion
as compared to US$760 million three years earlier. The disbursed portion of
the debt at the end of 1975 was about US$1.5 billion of which US$55 million
is owed to the Bank Group. Service payments falling due in 1975 amounted to
US$240 million and will be about US$300 million in 1976, assuming no change in
schedule of existing debt.
12.       To deal with the worsening economic and financial situation, the
Government attempted in early 1975 to restrict the budget deficit, to reduce
the expansion of credit and to allocate scarce foreign exchange to priority
payments, i.e., servicing external debt, transfer of expatriate salaries, and
import of essential raw materials. In addition, the Government contracted a
loan for US$50 million from Abu Dhabi for balance of payments support, and
drew about US$90 million from the IMF, about one half of which was secured
under the 1974 Oil Facility.
13.       Given the size of the difficulties inherited from the earlier
years, these measures could only have mixed success. Overall government
expenditures in 1975 amounted to US$1,326 million, about 11 percent less than
in 1974. Due to a large shortfall in government revenues, however, the
deficit remained high: US$460 million, compared with US$410 million in 1974.
Expansion of credit to enterprises was substantial. The foreign exchange
allocation system failed to provide for the servicing of medium and long term
debt on schedule, and shortages of raw materials, spare parts and other
essential imports slowed down domestic production and caused hardship for
consumers.
14.       Imports of goods and services in 1975 are estimated at about US$1,690
million, or about 9 percent lower than in 1974, The current account deficit
in 1975 was, however, larger than in 1974: US$550 million, as compared to
US$390 million. Despite substantial amounts of capital inflows and accumula-
tion of commercial arrears, the country's international reserves fell from
about US$200 million in December 1974 to US$90 million in December 1975,
representlng less than one month of imports of goods and services.
15.       Since November 1975, the Government, in consultation with the IMF,
has been working on a comprehensive stabilization program.    This program, on
the basis of which the IMF in March 1976 agreed to a one year stand-by
arrangement,provides for: a new central exchange rate, effective March 12, 1976,
SDR I - Z  - representing a 40 percent adjustment    compared with a previous
rate of US$2 = Z1; limiting the government deficit in 1976 to Z 60 million, while
providing tax relief for Gecamines, the Government-owned copper company; other
measures to correct the disequilibrium in the balance of payments and to bring
inflation under control, including renegotiation of external debt, increasing
agricultural producer prices and investment in agriculture, setting limits to
credit expansion and to wage increases in 1976; and abstaining from external
borrowing with a maturity of less than 10 years, except for loans related to
priority projects under implementation and finally, improving the financial
position of enterprises by assuring imports of materials and supplies, ap-
propriate pricing policies and by clarifying issues related to ounership and
nanagement responsibility of nationalized enterprises.



- 4 -
16.       As part of the stabilization program, the Government had already
offered, in November 1975, to return 40 percent of the shares of nationalized
firms to the original owners, and declared its willingness to consider
transferring management responsibility to them.   Negotiations between former
owners and the Stabilization Committee of the Government are under way with
a view to resolving the practical issues of implementation.
17.       The major issue the Government of Zaire faces in its task of
stabilizing the economy is the establishment of an orderly decision mechanism
for expenditure. Investment decisions should be made with a clear view of
priorities and the available financial means. Budget and credit policies,
and external borrowing should be managed accordingly. Despite some progress,
the Government has not succeecled so far in making full use of the Planning
Unit in the Office of the President which is reinforced by a team of advisors
provided by the Bank under a INDP-financed project.
18.       The recent stand-by agreement with the IMF, and the creation of a
Stabilization Committee to oversee the implementation of the program are
encouraging steps toward improved economic management. A reasonably success-
ful implementation of the stabilization program and about US$150 million
equivalent that Zaire can now purchase from the IMF can set
the  stage  for economic  recovery.    To correct  the  basic   im-
balances of the economy and to have the development process affect the life
of most Zairians will require longer and more continuous efforts.
19.       Even assuming the successful implementation of corrective policies,
Zaire's export earnings and government revenues will continue in the near
future to be heavily dependent on the price of copper. After a decline in
1975, world copper prices are expected to recover substantially during the
remainder of the decade, although in real terms they are unlikely to regain
the average of the 1970-75 levels. Zaire's export earnings are expected,
nevertheless, to grow by about 19 percent per annum in 1976-80 in current
terms, and about 4 percent in real terms, mainly on account of mining expan-
sion plans. Apart from copper, Zaire has the potential to produce many com-
modities for which market prospects are favorable: tropical woods, many
agricultural products, and several minerals, including petroleum.
20.       Assuming that copper prices will rise to an average of 67 US cents/
lb in 1976 and $1.20 in 1980, gross capital inflow requirements are expected
to be, on average, about US$720 million a year in 1976-80, compared with a
yearly average of US$530 million in 1973-75. Thus annual average inflow for
1976-80 would be about 36 percent higher than the average for 1973-75, but
this would represent no change in real terms. The debt service ratio would
rise from 11.8 percent in 1974 to about 22 percent in 1977, and about 21 per-
cent around 1980, without taking into account debt rescheduling.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
21.       From 1969 thru 1974, Zaire received eight IDA credits totaling US$72
million for transport, development finance company operations, agriculture and
education projects. The Bank has also extended grants totalling US$400,000 as
a contribution toward the cost of two planning assistance missions in Zaire.
Three new loans/credits were signed with Zaire in 1975: a Bank loan of US$100
million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which provides for special
repayment arrangements tied to copper export receipts; an IDA credit of US$26
million for a Third Highway Project, and an IDA credit of US$26 million for a
Railway and River Transport Project. The IFC, which has a US$760,000 parti-
cipation in the Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE), the local deve-
lopment finance company, is making a major effort to identify projects in
Zaire suitable for its financing.
22.       Until now, Bank Group assistance to Zaire has been small compared to
the needs of the country. An important limiting factor has been the inadequate
project preparation and implementation capability of the Government, but this
constraint is slowly being overcome. Furthermore, through the cofinancing
arrangements for the Gecamines Project, the Bank Group took a major step in
1975 toward assuring that other external capital assistance available to Zaire
was effectively directed toward. high priority projects.
23.       Disbursements on past IDA credits have been slow and amount to only
about US$40 million to date. Project implementation has also been poor due
primarily to the country's inadequate supply of trained manpower and management
capacity. For example, execution of the First Education Project (1971) was
delayed because of administrative weakness, and faulty selection and coordina-
tion of foreign consultants. Cost overruns on this project will require that
it be reduced in scope. Also, the technical assistance component of the
Second Highway Project (1972) was poorly implemented and the civil works only
started last year due to the shortage of experienced local personnel, diffi-
culties in recruiting key expatriate experts, delays in procurement and in the
implementation of organizational reforms. On the other hand, certain autonomous
entities which have benefitted from IDA and Bank Loans, the Development Finance
Company, the National Livestock Development Authority, the National Transport
Authority (ONATRA) and Gecamines, are executing IDA-financed projects in an
acceptable manner. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investment as of August 31, 1975, and notes on the status of
ongoing projects.
24.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been insti-
tution-building and slow project implementation may be expected. The Zairian
DFC, SOFIDE, was established with assistance from IFC and IDA. The River
Transport Project helped strengthen the agencies concerned with waterways;
i.e., the Office National des Transports (ONATRA), the Regie des Voies
Fluviales (RVF), and the Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVW). The Railway and
River Transport Project continued this assistance and provided funds for a
major management training program for ONATRA. The First, Second and Third



- 6 -
Highway Projects provided technical assistance to establish and operate the
Bureau of Roads. The Education Project included a manpower survey to furnish
data for a review of the education system, and the Livestock Project helped
establish the National Livestock Development Authority which has since acquired
responsibilities beyond the project area.
25.       The Bank Group's main efforts are directed   towards assisting
in the rehabilitation and improvement of transport, agriculture and education,
all high priority sectors in which the Bank Group should be able to make a
contribution to institution-building. Secondary emphasis is being placed on
development finance company operations and water supply. This concentration
should assist the Government to design and implement appropriate policies in
these critical sectors. In most projects this will mean providing for transi-
tional technical assistance and training.
26.       Lack of transport is the major physical impediment to the country's
development. The Government has placed considerable emphasis on the improve-
ment of its river/rail arterial network and the Association is helping to
finance both studies and new investments designed to extend and improve this
system. At the same time, roads are essential for inter-regional commerce,
and as a feeder network for the development of agriculture. Agriculture has
received insufficient attention from the Government. In agriculture prefer-
ence should be given in the short run to increasing agricultural production,
including the development of large scale plantations, while the capacity to
implement rural development projects is established in the Government. In
education, there is a need for curriculum reform and emphasis on non-formal
and vocational education, especially agricultural training. In this area our
purpose will be to assist the Government in framing appropriate policies
through project formulation. In industry, we propose to continue our support
for the local development finance company (SOFIDE). In the area of public
utilities, our assistance would be directed toward assuring broader access to
these essential facilities and strengthening the executing agencies.
27.       An expansion of the Bank Group's activities in Zaire will be possible
only if substantial efforts toward improving the country's economic management
are initiated and sustained progress is achieved. Considering the state of
disintegration within the country in the early 1960s, the political and econo-
mic cohesion attained since then has been noteworthy. However, the lack of a
comprehensive investment plan, the rapid rise in public expenditures and exter-
nal borrowing, the present shortage of reserves, the tenuous debt service
situation of the Government, and the insufficient allocation of resources to
agriculture are serious problems which have to be corrected if the overall
economic potential of the country is to be realized. The Government is aware
of the pressing need to take corrective action and has in cooperation with the
IMF initiated a stabilization program discussed above. The Bank is also
assisting the country through the UNDP Planning Assistance Project for which the
Bank is Executing Agency, the expanded country mission and an EDI Planning
Seminar held in Kinshasa this past summer.



- 7 -
PART III - EDUCATION IN ZAIRE
28.       During the colonial period, Zaire's education system served limited
purposes. Schools were established and administered principally by missionary
societies and their programs placed emphasis essentially on religious education
and preparation for clerical jobs. Until the 1950s secondary education was
only available for training the army's petty officer corps, for the priesthood
and for primary teacher training. No Zairian was to study in Europe until
the mid-1950s and there was no university in the country until the late 1950's.
In 1955, reforms opened the door to secondary and higher education but came
too late to provide the nation, about to become independent, with trained
manpower.
29.       Since Zaire's independence in 1960, the educational and training
system has expanded rapidly, but it remains ill adapted to the social and
economic needs of the country: standards are very low because of poor facili-
ties, minimal maintenance, limited equipment and few qualified teachers. The
system is not producing enough technicians and professionals in areas such as
agriculture, where they are most needed. In 1970, expatriates working in the
country, accounted for over one half of all modern-sector managerial positions
and more than one third of supervisory labor. The authorities, however, are
keenly aware of the link between improvement of socio-economic conditions,
particularly in the rural areas, and a better educational system.
The Present Education System
30.       The Department of National Education is responsible for all educa-
tional activity in Zaire. The centralization of decision-making in Kinshasa
produces delays, due to poor communications between the capital and the interior.
At both national and regional levels, administrative and inspectoral staff
are poorly equipped, coordination is weak, and and there are too many un-
qualified persons. Cooperation is lacking between public and private employers
and educational institutions. At the request of the Government a team of
experts in human resources and educational planning has been set up with the
help of UNDP and ILO and has begun a survey of manpower requirements. Further-
more, a detailed inventory of school facilities is being made as part of the
IDA assisted first education project and the conclusions of a UNESCO education
sector mission which visited Zaire in October 1975 will provide additional
assistance in policy formulation and programming. A draft of the UNESCO report
is now being discussed within the Bank and its conclusions support those
advanced herein.
31.       The overall primary level enrollment ratio is high, about 86 percent
of the 6-11 age group, but over a quarter of the pupils are overage. Children
in the region of Kinshasa have twice as much chance to attend school as those
in Equateur and Kasai Occidental. Moreover, rural schools do not offer the
full six-year primary course. Although women plav an important role in the
economy, particularly in agriculture, they account for only about 40 percent
of enrollment at the primary level, slightly over 25 percent at the secondary
level and 10 percent in higher education.    ji:h regarij to the language of



instruction, classes were held in the vernacular during the colonial period.
But after independence a new emphasis was put on French as a unifying language.
Since many of the teachers had only a mediocre command of the language, in-
struction in the vernacular continued, however, to prevail in the lower
primary grades. The quality of instruction varies from one region to another,
but on the whole the system is inefficient, and repetition and drop-out rates
are high. In 1973, 85 percent of primary pupils were enrolled in schools run
by religious groups, generally controlled and subsidized by the State.
32.       The mediocre quality of primary education is mainly due to the lack
of training of the teaching staff. Only one in five of the country's 80,000
primary school teachers have been trained, and the teachers have generally
not been taught to teach practical subjects. Primary school teaching has
not been an attractive occupation because of poor working conditions and low
salaries. Moreover, the curriculum in primary schools is geared mainly to
prepare students for secondary education, which most of them never attend,
and is ill adapted to a rural environment.
33.       The structure and organization of secondary education is very com-
plex and now comprises a four year "post-primary" terminal course or a two-
year lower-secondary "orientation cycle" followed by two to four years of
general or technical education. Both courses offer primary teacher training.
Students going into primary teacher training are usually the weaker students
who could not gain admission to general secondary education. Most of them
attempt to continue their education after completing the course and do not
actually become teachers. Enrollments in secondary school have more than
doubled since 1966 and in 1973 were estimated to be 325,000 or about 10 per-
cent of the 12-17 age group - 62 percent of whom attended schools run by
religious groups. However, the number of qualified teachers and the avail-
ability of facilities have not kept pace with this expansion. About one third
of secondary school teachers are expatriates, and only a third of the Zairian
teachers are qualified. The schools lack essential equipment and minimum
maintenance. The instruction provided is largely literary and geared to
higher education. Even in the technical programs, the practical training
offered is insufficient to prepare students for employment. As in the case
of primary education, repetition and drop-out rates are high.
34.       Agricultural schoo:Ls have a total enrollment of about 3,500.
Vocational agricultural schools offer either a two-year program after the
orientation cycle of two years or a four-year terminal program. Fifteen
agricultural and veterinary schools, known as Instituts Techniques Agricoles
(ITA) offer a four-year program after the orientation cycle. The ITAs were
intended to give professional training in agriculture as well as prepare
students for higher education. However, their curriculum is now predominantly
theoretical. Other specialized schools offer training in industry, commerce,
administration, social work and paramedicine. Total enrollment in these
schools was 30,000 in 1973. Individual school enrollments are often too low
to permit efficient and economical operation.



-9-
35.!      Higher education is offered at the National University of Zaire
(UNAZA) at its three campuses in Kinshasa, Lubumbashi and Kisangani which give
courses in liberal arts, social sciences and natural sciences. Enrollments
in higher education rose from virtually nil in 1960 to 16,000 in 1973 or about
one percent of the 18-21 age group. As in primary and secondary education,
however, the courses are too academic and need to be made more practical. In
1972-73, UNAZA employed 1400 full time teaching staff of whom 600 were Zairian.
A system of regional quotas is aimed at providing equal representation to
students of each region, and as a consequence, admission standards tend to
be lower for students from disadvantaged regions.
36.       It is estimated that in 1973, the last year for which figures are
available, total expenditures for education and training in Zaire amounted
to about Z 90 million. The Government financed 70 percent of these expendi-
tures, the private sector 5 percent and external assistance 25 percent. Re-
current expenditures of the Department of National Education, not including
foreign assistance, expanded at the rate of 9 percent p.a. between 1968 and
1973, reaching Z 61.4 million in 1973. In the same period, these expenditures
varied between 15.6 percent and 23.4 percent of the recurrent expenditures of the
general budget,representing from 3.4 percent to 5.5 percent of GDP. In 1973,
estimated foreign aid to education for recurrent expenditures -- given by
Belgium, the UNDP, France, Germany, Canada and USA -- amounted to approxi-
mately Z 18 million. The Belgian program, which accounted for Z 15 million
of this total, provided about 830 teachers and administrators, some 900
scholarships and subsidies to the University. The Government's capital
expenditures for education in 1973 were only Z 1.8 million or nearly 3 per-
cent of its recurrent education budget. Cumulative foreign capital commit-
ments to assist education amounted to Z 28 million at the end of 1974 of
which 7 18 million had been committed under a FED program for the construction
and equipment of seven secondary teacher training colleges.
The New Orientation
37.       In line with the increased emphasis given to agriculture, the Govern-
ment at the end of 1974 announced important policy decisions relating to educa-
tion: the Government is gradually to assume control over the entire education
sector; political and civic education is to be substituted for religious
education; all children are to receive six years of basic education by 1980.
Although there is no overall plan for reforming the educational system, the
Government has established quantitative primary enrollment targets up to 1990
and priority is being given to basic education. Despite the quantitative ob-
jectives and the financial constraints, the quality of primary education could
be considerably improved by 1990, assuming that educational expenditures amount
to 5 percent of GDP and that 55 percent of these expenditures were allocated
to primary education. The Government has agreed to prepare and submit to the
Association, within one year of the signature of the Credit Agreement, a Plan
of Action for the development of its system of primary and basic education
(section 4.07 of the Credit Agreement).
38.       Changes now being introduced in the content of primary education
involve: (a) developing curricula more relevant to regional conditions,
particularly in rural oriented practical subjects such as agriculture and



- 10 -
health; (b) the promotion of major local languages as media of instruction;
and (c) the reorientation of studies to take local traditions and needs into
account. The reform mostly concerns rural areas where the primary school is
to become the focus of village activities--community development and civil
programs for youth and adults are expected to be part of its functions. The
implementation of this program will require a reorientation of the training
of rural primary school teachers. An experimental program of teacher training
has been started at several rural primary teacher training institutes in the
region of Shaba. The new curriculum places emphasis on agriculture and health
education. Although the schools where the curriculum is offered lack
adequate practical studies facilities, the program is proving to be suitable
for training rural teachers. The Government hopes to increase the number
of these new type teacher training institutes, which will be called Ecoles
Normales a Vocation Rurale (ENVRs). Moreover, in order to attract able
students towards agriculture and education, the Government has recently
decided to raise the salaries of agricultural technicians and teachers.
39.       The reorientation of the training of rural primary school teachers
is only one of several elements required to promote rural development. For
the improvement of the agricultural extension service, an adequate supply
of well-trained personnel is also essential. At the highest level, the
Universite Nationale du Zaire (UNAZA) should be able to produce a sufficient
number of well trained graduates in agriculture, but there is an urgent
need for better trained agricultural technicians. The present liaison be-
tween the Department of National Education, which is responsible for the
training of technicians, and the Department of Agriculture is insufficient
to ensure that the ITAs meet the needs of the extension service. To ensure
coordination and cooperation in the field of agriculture between the Depart-
ments of Agriculture and Education, other organizations concerned with agri-
culture and the private sectc,r, a national committee for agricultural educa-
tion and training will be formed) with high level representatives from
these two departments and from the Office of the President. The Government
has agreed to establish such a committee within one year of signing the Credit
Agreement (section 4.05 of the Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The appraisal report for this proje-t entitled Appraisal of a Second
Education Project in Zaire (No. 864-ZR, dated March 12, 1976) is being dis-
tributed separately. The project, which would help the Zairian Government
to improve the quality and efficiency of education in the rural milieu, would
be the first sizeable government operation for the construction and improvement
of educational facilities outside the five major cities of Zaire. The Govern-
ment requested the project following a FAO/Bank in depth study of the rural
education sector conducted in 1973, and a FAO/Bank preparation mission in
1974 assisted by UNESCO and WHO. The project was appraised in February 1975,
further reviewed in the fieldl in July and negotiated in Washington the week



of December 9, 1975. The Zairian delegation was headed by Mr. Kama, Advisor,
Office of the President. A Credit and Project Summary is in Annex III.
41.       The proposed project would be the second Bank Group education prot-
ect in Zaire. The first project, financed under a US$6.5 million Credit of
December 17, 1971 (Credit 272-ZR), was designed to meet priority needs for
improvement and expansion of teacher training and technical education in five
major cities. Physical implementation is about two and a half years behind
schedule because of the delayed appointment of the architectural consultants
and inadequate implementation arrangements. Because of this delay, a cost
overrun of about US$18 million equivalent (150 percent of the total project
cost estimated at appraisal) is anticipated. Consequently, the scope of the
project is being reduced at the request of the Government by retaining four
priority schools and postponing four others. The reduced project is still
expected to cost more than the original total project and the required add-
itional finance will be provided by the Government. The manpower survey
and management study of the Department of National Education included in
the project is being implemented satisfactorily and all construction con-
tracts are expected to be signed by May 1976.
Project Description
42.       The project which is intended to provide facilities for training
rural primary teachers and agricultural technicians consists of the following
parts:
(a) the construction, equipping and furnishing of five
rural primary teacher training institutes (Ecoles
Normales a Vocation Rurale - ENVRs), each with a new
primary school for practice teaching;
(b) the rehabilitation and repair of six agricultural
technician training institutes (Instituts Techniques
Agricoles - ITAs) and of one Higher Institute of
Agricultural Studies (Institut Superieur d' Etudes
Agricoles - ISEA) and the initial operation thereof;
(c) a fellowship program to aid the efficient functioning
of the rural primary teacher training institutes and
of the agricultural technician training institutes
included in the Project;
(d) the evaluation of the new programs promoted in the rural-
primary teacher training institutes and in the agricultural
technician training institute; and



- 12 -
(e) the carrying out of preinvestment studies in preparation
for a further education project.
The ENVRs
43.       The five rural primary teacher training institutes (ENVR's) would
be built in five of the eight regions of Zaire, at Bulungu (Bandundu), Miyabi
(Kasai Occidental), Butembo (Kivu), Isiro (Haut-Zaire) and Gemena (Equateur).
In selecting the sites, priority was given to regions less endowed with teacher
training facilities; and within each region, educationally disadvantaged
areas with good agricultural potential were chosen. The schools would be
within walking distance of the rural towns mentioned above and would have a
capacity of 320 students each, with boarding places for 240. During nego-
tiations, the Government has agreed that it will provide boarding scholar-
ships for needy students in the ENVRs, in the ITAs and the ISEA (section 4.03
of the Credit Agreement).
44.       A new curriculum stressing agriculture, rural health, hygiene and
community development would be introduced in the five ENVRs. Elements of this
curriculum are already being used at several teacher training institutes in
Shaba but the ENVRs included in. the project would be the first in Zaire to
provide adequate facilities for this new curriculum (see para. 38).
45.       The staff for the ENVRs would be initially provided by ongoing
teacher training programs financed by bilateral technical assistance. Later,
it is expected that the teachers would be supplied by the Institut de Forma-
tion des Cadres de l'Enseignement Primaire (IFCEP). IFCEP is a university
institute located in Kisangani that is being assisted under the first educa-
tion project (Credit 272-ZR). Under the proposed project, an experienced
specialist in the operation of an ENVR would be appointed to each institute
for a period of two years as an adviser to the director.
46.       All five institutes wrould include in addition to the normal aca-
demic and communal facilities.
(i)  a primary school with a 480 pupil capacity for practice
teaching by ENVR students;
(ii)  a small curriculum development unit to promote regionally
oriented syllabi and instruction in the main language used
in each region; and
(iii)  a farm to be used both for instruction in agricultural
subjects and for helping to provide food for the students.
The Government has agreed that each ENVR will have at least
10 hectares of farmland (section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement).
47.       As outlined in paragraph 37, Government's plans in the education
sector are not yet finalized. The Government has agreed that it will include
in the Plan of Action for the development of its system of primary and basic



- 13 -
education, a program for the development and utilization of the teachers
trained in the project institutions (section 4.07 of the Credit Agreement).
The Government has also agreed that it will seek timely assistance from bila-
teral agencies for staff for the ENVRs (section 4.03 of the Credit Agreement).
The ITAs and the ISEA
48.       The six agricultural technician training institutes (ITAs) and the
Higher Institute of agricultural studies (ISEA) to be rehabilitated under
the project have been selected by major agro-climatic zone to provide maxi-
mum coverage. They are located at: Gombe-Matadi (Bas-Zaire), Tshibashi
(Kasai Occidental), Gandajika (Kasai Oriental), Butembo (Kivu), Isiro (Haut-
Zaire), and Mondongo (Equateur). The ISEA is located at Bengamisa (Haut-Zaire).
All seven institutes would be expanded and re-equipped to accommodate 210
students each plus 20 places in each ITA for the in-service training of
technical personnel and, since all are located in rural areas, boarding
facilities and staff housing would also be provided. The Government has
agreed that 750 hectares of land will be transferred from the INERA station
to the Gandajika ITA for livestock production purposes and that a forest
concession of between 5,000 and 10,000 hectares will be made available by the
Department of Agriculture for the use of the ISEA at Bengamisa.
49.       The ITAs would train students who had a minimum of three years of
general secondary education. The program of studies has been prepared with
assistance from the FAO and several bilateral agencies; it would last three
years and would focus on professional, as opposed to general, studies. Also,
half the weekly program would be devoted to laboratory workshop and practical
field activities. The curricula of each ITA would be designed to meet the
particular requirements of the area in which the institute is located. For
example, in those areas where livestock is raised, they would offer courses
in animal husbandry. The ISEA at Bengamisa to be assisted under the project
would produce agricultural and forestry specialists. The Government's long
term plan is to produce enough forestry graduates both to supervise the ex-
ploitation of Zaire forest reserves and to teach at the secondary level -
forestry technician training in Zaire cannot at present be developed for
lack of teachers. The staff of the ITAs and of the ISEA would be provided
under ongoing French, Belgian and Canadian technical assistance programs.
Under the proposed project, nine specialists would be recruited: two would
serve in the headquarters of the Department of National Education as advisors
and seven would be appointed as assistants to the directors of the ITAs and of
the ISEA.
50.       The majority of the graduates of the ITAs and of the ISEA are ex-
pected to be employed in government-sponsored agricultural activities. The
Government has agreed that it will take all steps necessary to ensure employ-
ment opportunities for the graduates of the institutions included in the proj-
ect and that within two years from the date of the Agreement, it will furnish
the Association with a plan showing the Government's forecast of how such
graduates are likely to be employed. The Government has a4so agreed that it
will seek timely assistance from bilateral agencies to staff the ITAs (section
4.03 of the Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Fellowship Program
51.       The project would provide a total of 39 man-years for fellowships
as follows:
(i) ENVRs: 10 man-years of fellowships for the ENVR staff;
for training abroad;
(ii) ITAs and ISEA: 29 man-years for fellowships for ITA
and ISEA staff for training abroad in organization,
administration and agricultural education.
Evaluation
52.       The new programs promoted by the ENVRs and the ITAs would be eval-
uated to assess whether a) the reorientation of primary teacher training has
an effective impact in developing primary schools as focal points for village
life and growth and b) the training of agricultural technicians is geared to
future employment requiremenls. This evaluation will be conducted by a panel
of consultants (2 man-years) who would make recommendations for changes in
curricula and the deployment and utilization of the ENVR trained teachers as
required and would also assist in the formation and training of a permanent
Zairian evaluation unit.
Preinvestment Studies
53.       The proposed project would finance the preinvestment studies re-
quired for a possible third ieducation project in Zaire. Given the needs of
the rural population, it is expected that this project will focus on rural
educational needs, and possible project items to be considered include 3
additional rural primary teacher training institutes (ENVRs), so as to pro-
vide one ENVR in each region outside Kinshasa. This third project may be
ready for appraisal in FY77. The Government has agreed that, by December 31,
1976, it will select the sites of the three additional ENVRs required (sec-
tion 4.02 of the Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
54.       The Project Unit established within the Ministry of Education to
implement the first education project would have overall responsibility for
project implementation, including liaison with the Association, other min-
istries and local authorities. At present, this Unit's senior staff con-
sists of a Director (a Zairian educator), a Deputy Director (a Belgian
architect), a part-time procurement specialist and a part-time accountant.
To permit satisfactory implementation of the project, the Government has
agreed that within one year of signing the Credit Agreement (a) the posi-
tions of procurement specialist and accountant would be made full-time and
that (b) in addition, a full-time construction supervisor and five clerks
of works would be employed as construction contracts are awarded (section
3.01 of the Credit Agreement). They would be employed by the Project Unit
but assigned to the Department of Public Works, to which they would be



- 15 -
responsible for all technical matters relating to the construction of the
project institutions. The design and construction supervision for the
Project institutions would be carried out by Zaire-based consultants.
These consultants who have already been designated by the Government would
be responsible for the plans and design of the civil works. The Project
will be constructed in phases. All design work is expected to be completed
by early 1978 and all construction by early 1981.
55.       The Government has agreed that the institutions included in the
Project would be maintained and staffed at all times with qualified and experi-
enced personnel (section 4.06 of the Credit Agreement) and that within two
years of the date of signature of the Credit Agreement, after consultation
with the Association, it will establish new procedures for the maintenance
of its schools and for the strengthening of financial and administrative
control in the school system (section 4.08 (a) of the Credit Agreement).
The Government has also agreed to review with the Association these proce-
dures and their effectiveness with a view to amending them as necessary.
(Section 4.08 (b) of the Credit Agreement.)
Project Costs and Financing
56.       The total cost of the project (including taxes and duties of about
US$7.0 million), is estimated at US$48.5 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$20.5 million, or 50 percent of total project costs
net of taxes. The proposed IDA credit of US$21 million would finance about
51 percent of total net project costs, covering the foreign exchange component
(US$20.5 million equivalent), and US$0.5 million of locally manufactured school
furniture to be procured under international competitive bidding. The Government
of Zaire would finance the remaining costs. The following table shows the principal
categories of expenditures:
In US$ Millions
Local     Foreign       Total
Civil works                             13.75      7.09          20.84
Professional services                    0.74      0.74           1.48
Furniture                                0.58      0.70           1.28
Equipment                                0.21      1.90           2.11
Technical assistance, evaluation
and project administration             0.67      2.31           2.98
Physical contingencies and
expected price increases              12.05      7.76          19.81
Total Project Cost                 28.00     20.50         48.50
(of which taxes and duties)        (7.00)    (--)          (7.00)
57.       The calculation of cost estimates in US$ in this report are based
on the exchange rate in force before the monetary realignment. The zaire



- 16 -
is now at parity with the SDR and, therefore, 1 zaire = US$1.18. Nominally,
the realignment reduces the total estimated cost to US$37 million equivalent,
of which US$5 million represents taxes.    The foreign exchange component is
unchanged at US$20.5 million equivalent. The proposed Credit of US$21 million
equivalent would thus correspond to 66 percent of total project cost net of
taxes and duties as compared with 51 percent before devaluation.
58.       The authorities attach high priority to the proposed project and
have given assurances that they can meet their share of the costs. It is a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit that the Borrower inform the
Association of the arrangements made to ensure the availability, when and
in the amounts required by the schedule of implementation of the project,
of the funds in zaires necessary for the project (section 5.01 of the Credit
Agreement). It is expected that these arrangements will involve a procedure
by which the project director will be entitled to draw the funds required for
the Project, directly and without authorization of the Ministry of Finance.
The recurrent expenditures generated by the project are estimated at US$1.2
million equivalent p.a. (in 1974 prices) which is less than half of one
percent of the recurrent expenditures anticipated by the Ministry of
Education for 1980 and which would be met from the regular education budget.
Procurement
59.       Except as noted below, procurement for the proposed project would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank-IDA guide-
lines. All tender documents relating to construction would be prepared so
as to encourage the maximum participation of local building contractors in
the bidding. Foreign-based construction firms are unlikely to be interested
in bidding for the rehabilitation works required for the ITAs and the ISEA:
the sites are widely dispersed, access is difficult and the sums involved
are comparatively small. Contracts for the ITAs and the ISEA, and furniture
and equipment contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
60.       Local suppliers and contractors who bid on contracts to be awarded
after international competitive bidding, would be allowed the following prefer-
ences:
(1) 15 percent or the existing applicable rate of import duties
(whichever is the lower), over the cif price of competing
foreign suppliers for furniture and equipment; and
(ii) 7-1/2 percent over the bid prices of competing foreign
contractors for civil works contracts.
Disbursements
61.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to meet:



- 17 -
(a) 14 percent of the cost of civil works excluding directly
imported construction materials and local transportation
of such materials;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for: directly
imported construction materials, furniture, equipment,
technical assistance (consisting of specialists and
fellowships), and consultants' services; project unit
operating expenditures and consultants' services;
(c) 90% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
furniture and equipment;
(d) 55% of the cost of imported but locally purchased
furniture and equipment; and
(e) 40% of local expenditures for: transportation services
for directly imported construction materials, furniture
and equipment, Project Unit operating expenditures and
consultants' services.
62.       Between September 1, 1975 and the date of signature of the credit,
the Project Unit is expected to make initial payments for professional archi-
tectural services. It is proposed that the Association finance retroactively
up to US$300,000 equivalent of such expenditures from the Credit.
Benefits and Justification
63.       An improvement of the social and economic conditions in rural areas
is one, if not the key, condition for the development of Zaire. This point
has been underscored by every economic mission visiting the country in recent
years and, what is more important, it has been adopted by the authorities who
have stated that agriculture is their top priority. Three quarters of Zaire's
population make their living from agriculture, a sector which has a proven po-
tential not only to feed the country, but also to be a major source of exports.
In the past, Zaire's exports were divided practically in equal parts between
agriculture and minerals. Today, due mainly to the deterioration of the
plantations, the marketing and transport system, agricultural exports are less
than 20 percent of total merchandise exports. The poor situation in the
agricultural sector has also had an adverse social impact: it has provoked a
massive migration from the rural areas to the cities with a sequel of problems
such as unemployment and malnutrition.
64.       Improving education in the rural areas and providing the farmers
with adequate technical assistance are two important elements of an overall
strategy of rural development that is beginning to emerge in Zaire. The
proposed project would be the first major effort of Zaire to improve educa-
tional facilities in rural areas. It addresses itself to two critical needs:
it would help provide well-trained teachers for rural primary schools and also
qualified agricultural technicians for the rural extension services of the
Government.



- 18 -
65.       The quantitative impact of the ENVRs to be financed under the
project would be modest since only 8 to 10 percent of the rural primary
school teachers in service in 1990 would have received their pre-service
training in them. However, the qualitative impact on the rural communities,
on other primary teachers working with ENVR-trained staff and in the devel-
opment of programs adapted to rural areas is expected to be significant.
66.       The six ITAs and the ISEA to be assisted under the project would
permit a gradual increase in the number of agricultural technicians from 650
in 1973 to about 4,500 in 19')0. An important impact: on agricultural produc-
tion and on the well-being of the rural areas of Zaire could therefore be
expected from the proposed project.
Risks
67.       The risks associated with this project fall into two main cate-
gories: (a) the uncertainties surrounding long-term educational planning
in Zaire and (b) the difficulties of executing a major construction program
in remote rural areas. With justifiable caution, thie project has been kept
small in relation to the total needs of the sector. As mentioned in para. 37,
we are requiring the Government to elaborate, within one year of the signature
of the Credit Agreement, an Action Plan for the development of Zaire's system
of primary and basic education. In the longer term, it is envisaged that a
sectorial plan for education at all levels would be prepared by the Planning
Unit in the Office of the President, in association with the Department of
Education. As to the difficulties concerning project execution, particularly
those encountered in the first project (see para. 41), attention has been
given to (i) developing a realistic schedule of implementation, (ii) ensuring
that design work would start at the earliest possible date and be entrusted
to locally based consultant firms, (iii) strengthening the Project Unit, and
(iv) developing tender documentation that would encourage the participation
of medium-size Zairian firms.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association, the Recommendatior of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.       The legal arrangements for the project incorporate the following
special features: 1) the preparation by the Government of a Plan of Action
for the development of its system of primary and basic education (para. 37);
2) the creation of a national committee for agricultural education and training
(para. 39); 3) the establishment of a plan indicating how the graduates of the
ITAS will be employed (para. 50); 4) the strengthening of the Project Unit
(para. 54); and 5) the establishment of new procedures for the maintenance
of the schools and for the strengthening of financial and administrative control
in the school system (para. 55).



- 19 -
70.       As an additional condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower is required to inform the Association of its intentions
with regard to supplying,when and in the amounts required by the schedule of
project implementation, the funds in local currency necessary for the project
(Section 5.01 of the Credit Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 31, 1976



r IWTXof 4 ga|.
TABLE 3A
LAND AREA (THOU KEJ21              zAltE              - SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHEET
-At --- -- -- -- zO Ktt1IR--E
TOTAL     2344                               2       OSTRECENTIR               REFRFNtF COU'TRIFS (19701
TOTAL     234R.4                                    t4OST RECFNT
ARAsLE        ..1 960                           1970   ESTIMATE         ETHIOPIA      NIGERIA       BRAZIL
GNP PER CAPITA fuSA)                    70.0       110.0      140.0              70.0      150.0      530.0
_  _ -- ---- _ __  ____  - _-- _
POPULATION ANt VITAL STATISTICS
POPIILATION IHID-YR, MILLIONI         16.6       21.6       23.4               24.6       66.2       92.8
POPULATION DFNSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       7.0        9.0        10.0              20.0       72.0       11.0
PER SOUARF KM. ARABLE LAND            ..          ..         .                                     34.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE B IRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         .        44.0       45.0              46.0       50.0       38.0
CRunDE nEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         ..       23.0       23.0              25.0       25.0       10.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATF (/THOUI      L04.0/        .                                                  o 110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIPTH IYRS)        ,.        41.0      44.0               39.0       40.0       61.0
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE               ..         2.8        2.9               2.9        3.3        2.6
PnPULATION GROWTH RATE (VI
TOTAL                                 ..        2.7        2.4                2.2        2.5        2.9
URBAN                                 ..          ..       6.0/               9.4 /a     5.0        5.0
URRAN POPULATION IX OF TOTAL)           ..        22.0/a     25.0              10.0       23.0       56.0
AGE STRUCTURF IPERCENT)
n Tn 14 YEARS                      39.0/b      42.0       43.0              45.5       45.0       42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.o0 5-I     .0:      54.0              42.6 b     53.0       55 0
65 YEARS AND OVER                    6.0lb8     3.0         3.0              11.9 /      2.0        3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0. s/      0.3        0.9                1.3        0 9        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9        1.Z/b      '.'Lk 19 1k                              1.5
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS ICUJULATIVE, THOI           ..          ..         .                 ..         ..      z5o.o
USERS (I OF MMRIED WOMtEN)            ..          ..         ..                ..         ..        1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAPOR FORCE ITHOUSAND)        6800.0      7900.0     0400.0           11300.0    25600.0    29600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AtRICULTURE 4:1        84.0        78.0       77.0              85.0       67.0       44.0
UNEMPLOYED IT Of LABOR FORCEI            ..         ..         ..
INCCME niSTRIBUTION
_  --__ . _-_---_------
I OF PRIVATE INCOMF REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5t nF POPULATICN             ..          ..         ..                ..         ..       35.0 /f
HIGHFST 20 OF POPULATION             ..          ..         ..                ..         ..       62.0 4k
LOWEST  2OX OF POPULATION             ..          ..         ..                ..         ..        3.0 4k
LOWEST  40s OF POPULATION             ..          ..         ..                ..         ..       10.0 LA
DISTRIBUTtIN Of LAND OWNFRSHIP
I OWNFQ BY TOP 10? OF OWNERS            ..          ..         ..                ..         ..       45.0
X nWNFD BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS          ..          ..         ..                ..         ..        1.5
HEALTH ANn NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           30000.0     30040.0    29450.0           74550.0    246o0.0/b   1950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PEPSON       3580.0      2290.0                      24040.0     4610.07T   3300.01k
POPILATInN PER HOSPITAL BED          IRO.0       320.0         .             3030.0     2220.0      260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES It OF RFOUIREMENTS)        92.0        92.0         ..              92.0       97.0      109.0
PpnTFIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             33.0        33.0         .               69.0       60.0       84.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        16.0         ..              25.0       16.0        39.0
nEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..
E DUCAT I nN
AnJUSTED ENRnLLMENT PATIO
PPIMARY sCHnOL                      72.0        86.0         .1 16.0                    34.0      130.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0       11.0         ..               4.0        4.0        27.0
YEARS OF SCHOnLING PRovinED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL I            12.0       12.0       12.0              12.0       t4.0        t3.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
It OF SFCONDARYI                    27.0        14.0         ..               5.0        8.0        17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE tX 4.                         13.0         ..                ..         ..       68.0
HOUSING
PERSCNS PER ROOM IAVERAGE)               ..              ..             ..                  ..         1.0
occuPIEn DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (31                        ..         ..         ..                ..         ..        73.01k
ACCESS TO ELFCTRICITY
If nF ALL DWELLINGS)                  .          2.0         .4 .                         ..       48.0
RuRAL DWFLLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELFCTRICITY IY)                     ..         ..         ..                ..         ..         8.0
CONSuMPTION
RAnlO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          3.0        3.0        4.0               6.0        23.0       60.0
PASSFNGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0ff      4.0        4.0               2.0         1.0       25.0
ELECTRICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)          136.0      140.0      166.0              21.0        28.0      487.0
NFSPPINT tKG/YR PER CAP)               O. fUj     0.03       0.03               0.04       0.3        2.7
SEE NnTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of I. pages.
NOTES
felons otherise noted, data for 1960 refer to roY pea    bonare  1959 and 1961, for 197f bnitre   1968 and  910, and for Moot ReCnnt Estimate bmeeven  1971
and 1973.
am  rns-  hen ben  esltted a  an obj-oti-e Couontry for faIre horie   of the c-p-rbllity c aloe and -eturn      rsuce eedeeet of the, to coutries
plus thn fact that Smell has ahigh rotth ...te and isat o1 higher leuoc level.
ZAIRS       1960     Ia1955-58;     /h1955-57,     /c  Age gEroop 15-li;  /d  91 seduce      Zt Ratio ot poylviain ceder 15 ned 99 and can     to erol
_____  ____   __Itaho   forco;    If  1963;  7g   Incl,din iRuoda end Buun,odi.
1910    Ia1965;     /4 Ratio of popu1atte ond-t 11 and h5 ed eve      to total LaOr- furor;   _K   1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTENATE:     /a  1965-73;   /6  Porno of popolanin  -,d-r 11 ned 65 ted  -nrrtr taI labor force
ETHIOPIA    1970     in.  1965-70;  lb  15-49 yearn, nod 50 e-ar and ove   r-p-ti-ely,      /0  Ratio of popolation aeder 11 and 50 and care to total labor
NItERIA      1970    In  Ratio of .poplatico -odr 15 sed 65 aed car   to octal labor force;    /b  tegle-erd, not all praseiciag in the Cooutsty.
5RAZ011.    1970     Ia  Oc-ni-olly actir- PoPoIatiue;     lb ftoepioal p-r--se ;     /t   osi   ay
R5. March 15, 1916
EEpf134TIONS 0ii 500TAL flfDCAhORq
1usd Ar.c (thou k,42/                                                               Poptnainuecno  oudraing peooig  - Population dicidad by esabee of prooti-
ou.c ae  oprisio,g land urea and inlund wutnrs.                  cing _as   o   facal  grocae nuse-sn, 'trained" or 'ner,tifind"cus,
Senile - Rnt receolcoticculnof land areo used tnoporanilvyo pericav-tly        end noxiliary r--scnnel with treining orrprine
77ccillvAclOr.,pustore, nurht ood kitc~hen gorders or tolie   alw              Popolatlon  ne beopipta1lih  - Popolation divided by nObere of hospital
bed  ~avilable In publi   and prlv-te general end ePec ieliand hospital
GflP rAcLJ)(5$( - GN51 per coybto eati-otes at nocht prices. Colon-                   and rhabi1itttivon cetred   nrludes nursing hbesan and astabliehewntn
converion eatbod as W-1cd Blanh Atlss   1971-71. So-ic.               for cus.todial nod pre-eti-enea
Per oppit, uply   Ifclois(8 of                   Colemt( - -Cteoid fe-s
Ppotice andotl otaittsr                                                                        ene    of net, food s-pplies sneilHi   l.aCoutry P.r
Popolt Ior (mdyr     Mil4n    -Ai oP July ftrot; if noct cvials      vraeopita Per day; ovaileble suppliesocrandetipcstlo
of two end-yea  estinatne.                                                           lpr5ts lea- epor,ts, aid oogee So stock; net supplier exolude
animal Peed, needs, qu;actitine used in. food pron...lIng and lossan
-     -. aciye-pc eur     i    i id-pane yapulatlo lee- :iqOar  Silo-           in distribution; requifrracrts warn estimated by PAO based on physt-
ci _oturns    of otl uso                                                     oleg-c1 ned. for     omnnri acIvnysd hna.Itt conidering     -niro-
Proioto     eniy-    -ar ogo-- hkc oP eral    lund - fumpuid us above forcta it-poratuan, bedyt.,aightn,aeged sno distebbutic-n of popu-
oruble lund enly.                                        10110,;, nod allowIng lC  fr cse at hounsehold level.
Per oupito Suppl rfpenl       (rmspe      ay) - Protein Content of per
Vital stutistins                                                                       coiovt suplyfcica         perdy; net supply of food is defined as
Pru-de birth rata peIho,sund - Annuol Ive birthn per thc--id of rid-                   above; requirnants fo,r ull1 Cunstries established by USM E.neomic
yearC rouuict. osnaol     fins-yor -oreg.a ending it, 1950, 1907. and                Rasa- k ehinepeen,ids fin a ninns       a         ooue  f 60 grase  of tortal.
75 fcrdevelopingcutis                                                              proteSt per day, and 20 grac   of anima end pulse retain, of which 10
fride death rasper touad          nnual doatic per thousand c aid-ylear               grass ehoald he a-tos> peotein; these snnardsd see lower than thone
populatin;   sull   fe-yea    uverges ending Sec 1960, 1970 and 1975                of 75 greno     ttiprti       od2    grams of anmlprotein as an aver-
for developing countries,                                                           age for lhe word, proposed by PA0 in the Third World Food Sunny.
Ir fuot  .rot.1lty eats (/thou( - irnoul deatho of irfoocto  rnndt one year          Per noolta protein IMapIy free -nital ad pilo    - Protein oupply of food
of agc Par thnooa-d lIve hirth_n..1 deie                                                     froma.  ml onPusn           rm      prday.
Life  xpvaoatbirth (cn(          - erg    nocb   of yerar of :111Pc reman-           tenth rota C/thou   gs -i-Annual deaths per thouramd in age group 1-4a
Ing at birth;usalfieyr            -cragn  endIng in 1960, 1970 and975                peers, tr children in thie ags group; suggeeted an am irdinator of   e-1
Pfor dover,PIog countries.                                                           notrition..
Gross r    crouttion rate - icerage number of line, daughters a woman will
Sear io her noralroproductina periud If nh, -pe-i-nc- prese.nt uge-                Education
opecific fertlilit  Aeusal         cive _Yorucrages -ndin, in 1960,                idutd    enroltetrto-pIayshci-5coi                     to    l   gsa
1970 and 3,975 fory deeopn    coutric.                                                ercntag   of prm.         e-aeppuain         inoludea children aged
pouaI    hIrairae()- oa        oopound annual growth s-air of rid-             6-     - yar bni ad,custed for different lengths of primary eduoation,
per povlac      tfo  1900,160t    ,  n   96   n   ot ert peer.                    for -cntrirn with unloer-1l edoracioc, wcrollmesit nay earnd 1157%
Popolaion crneth rta  8  ra    - Poaputod like grenti r-te of in-cl               oiove come pupila are below or above the official sohool age.
o Npulotn,'diffeen     deiiin      of rbao orasry affeol., ennrn-                  id/tintd enrollene   aI      eodr      school - Couputed an above; second-
illity of dab  aon.outre.ar duceicon requires al es                                                                   oryearn of approved primary irs.tno-
-Urba  pEuaio        ofttl      -t Rei  of urban to total pop,-mton;                   tien; prrnvdr   generAl. cocational or teahertraining Instruction for
dIfferen  dfilt ln     or cu-Sun Areas may affect eonpA-abIlllty ofda tu             Pupils oP 12t 17     rsar  uP  gni corcespondenro Courses are generally
-mog countrie.-                                                                      .ooladed.
Awc strcture    recent   - Children (0-li4 yearn.), working ago (15-61; pr..ro),     Years of enboolirng procided (fileet and second levnls) - Total years of
ud retired  65yneara and o-r( us perrentagee of rtd-p-nr poptolatl on.              sohooling; at secondary lanai, vocationl instructior ma he partially
Ago de.nedeeS  ratio - Rtio of Npoplation under 15 and 65 aid ovr to                   or coupletely noCiuded.
those oP ages 19 through 6i.                                                       focuttona1 euroll-net (   f ssrndary) - locastlonel inetitntiono include
Counomin dependency rutio - Rati.oaf Population under 19 und 65 and over               techni=cal,idsralo         te  programs which operate indepeodanotly
In the labor for,c inL age group oP 15641 years.                                     or on dep-etnnts of secondary inetitutiona.
Pamilo ourWing - ucc"Ptoro Coccultine. thoul -Cumulative camber of                                  rae     C-Literate ad1tn (able to read and aite( o
accepors  f bith cotntroldevices cinder, ansin  Pntoa       uiyprcnaeitin7dl                                ouaIion aged 15 years and ever.
piansing prugrun sincoe inception.
coolly clainng - useros( o,f, mrid enno     )   Parn cgo     fmrried                 Housing
cenen of child-hearing ae(iS        aar(   h   se SIrt-     to    eicofronor.roa                    (average) - Acerge en-ber of persons per roca in ocoupiad
to all mrried wonicane age group.                                                    c......tinal. duelliug  in urba  areasl daeiliuge amolad. en-pornaarnt
strct-re   and unrccopied parts.
Occupied dwellings without pinedjtwater(%) - Onoupied con-eeticual dank-
Idi.,iirforce       t c....ond( - Seononioally untiv- ternoos, inCldicti               irne in urhen nod ruralara     wtotinside or outside Piped      twae
oreed forces and uneect yrd bot .Coluding h--osiv&. atudents, et_.i                  fcilite    aserenage of all occupied dsellings.
definitionn  in -ario-o Countiries are not o..rpurable.                            ACneos to e1oniricic,, CS of all dwallings)  - Cnentional dwellings with
Lb,fore In a   i-lt,re ((-AgricultUral labor, fo-ne (10 Poring,                     electricity in 1lin-lg quarters as percest of total dwellings in urban
forestry, hunting and fishin)a pcoertageofto tal lbor Ports,                         and rural aes
dcee51l.yrd (8 oP labor fore( - lerrPloe     r   sulydfnd        npro                Rural deellines _Contentesi to electricity )%   O.puted as shove Per rural
who are able and willIng to tue a jb, ct of ajob on n gi~nn da.                      96sLionn oly
remined out of aj'ob, and reekIng work for a spen ifio-d ceinLr,en
period nt nocsadd.ccg one we.eb; tp not hr Coiparable Stw  -ccontries              CoTnsuti:on
du ,odfferent definitijons of umeiployed and souce if dt,e.g.,                Padereevrs }pho            P      Al  ty-pes of receIver  for radio bread-
sopleymnt   ffir statistics-    aelanres,snnusr            nspcyco                    et    octra      u -7  per thousand of popu.ltbonl eanludee am-
insurance.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~licacced mc nier  i coun tries and So years hbn registration of
radiosnto was in effect1 datafor recent peace map not be ounparable
intone distributIon - Percentago of private inoos (both in ct-h aend                    inc  most countries abolished licensing.
kind( rcricad by Iclhuat 5%, rlnbeot 20%, Po-,eSt 20%, and pnnr-st                Passerger oar  (Per thou pop) - Pass enger o'ar cunprise usnin  oars seat-
LEI nf population.                                                                   ing les  than eiglt~ perP5o01.. ronlude  ambulances, hearses and
military eshicles.
bitrhulnofland o-oCrnblrc - lerosotagce oP land owned by noelth-                  Eleotririty Ckhu,yr oar cap) - Annual consucption of indu-tetal, Coreno-
lest 111 and poreot 10%of landowners.                                        ila1, psiblic and private c1ectrir.iny in killowat hour per n apita;
gecer...lly based Oi prnchntio- data, without allowace for lasse in
Healtb and llutrition                                                                  gu-Iid  cc,l allinadg for imports and expects of electricity.
poultin  ecpinsiia  - Ppulation div,Ided by ouber of prcctiniu.g               lw   ruc(Sen' Per caP      - Per capita annua C-nsouptio   in kilogram
pl     _iciao  uaifed fan    ned-u- sobool at couicernity loonl.                    -stin-d frein d--otic poroduction plus net inporto of newsprint.
March II, 0976.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN i974                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%M constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1964 -69          1970-73            1974
ONP at Market Prices           3327.6      100.0                        *-                5.4              5.2
Gross Domestic Investment       804.6       24.2                                         15.0            -10.0
Gross National Saving           682.2       20.5                                         13.2              1.6
Current Account Balance       -516.4       -15.5
Exports of Goods, NFS          1474.0       44.3                        *-                7.6             11.7
Imports of Goods, NFS         1860.0        55.9                        *-                5.7              4.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                   Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
us$ Mln.                         Mln.       %                    US7
Agriculture                    522.6       15.6
Industry                      1133.4       33.8               ..
Services                      1701.0       50.6
Unallocated
Total/Average           ._   _
335?.0      100.0               8.4     100.0                              100.0
OOVERNMENT FINANCE
COneral Government                             Central Government
r      qn-)     _     %                        (     Hln.)         % of GODP
1974        1974      1971-73                  1974        1974        1971-73
Current Receipts                   538.6         30.5         29.3
Current Expenditure                558.8         31.6         25.6                   ..          .             .
Current Surplus                   -20.2          -1.1          3.7
Capital Expenditures               186.3         10.5          8.9
External Assistanes (net)          121.3          6.8          5.1
June        June
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1968         1971        1972         1973        1974        1975
(M!illion Zaire outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    151.9        213.0        256.7       356.6        460.9       464.2
Bank credit to Public Sector              88.5        133.9        157.8       188.8        261.4       364.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector             20.6         59.9         91.1       132.6        177.8       282.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         21.8         18.7         20.6        21.7         26.1        24.5
General Price Index (1970 - 100)          87.2        105.8        122.2       141.7        181.9       225.3
Annual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                       46;8          5.8         15.5        16.0         34.1        23.8
Bank credit to Public Sector              11.1         28.1         17.9        19.0        44.0         39.4
Bank credit to Private Sector             14.2         40.3         52.0        45*.7'      48.4         58.7
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
oovered.
not aYailable
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971-73)
1972      1973     1974                                             US $ Mln    X
(millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           789.0    1123.0   1474.0            Copper                          491.0      61.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          1031.4    135fi.0  1860.0            Cobalt                           59.0       7.3
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     -242.4    -23:3.0  -386.0            Coffee                           59.4       7.4
Diamonds                          44.8       5.6
Interest Payments (net)          .        -31.2    -77.1            Palm & Palm Kernel Oil           29.1       3.6
Workers' Remittances            -86.0     -28.0     66.4
Other Factor Payments (net)     -45.6       6.8    - 2.9
Net Transfers                    74.0      27.0     16.0           All other commnm.ties            119.6      14.9
Balance on Current Account     -300.0    -274.0   -516.4                Total                       802.9     100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        97.0      20.0     ..           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                234.4     368.0    496.7                                                   US $ Mln
Amortization                  87.4      61.0     97.2
Subtotal                    147.0      307.0    399.5           Public.Debt, incl. guaranteed             1296.7
Capital Grants                  23.6       1.0.0     8.0           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              10.8       ..      ..             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                11.2      -1.4    112.4                                                       ..
Increase in Reserves (+)      -   8.2    - 61.6   -220.8 3/      DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973
Gross Reserves (end year)       178.4     234.6    140.2
Net Reserves    (end year)       95.1     154.8    120.2            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               11.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fiel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        38.4      48.0    101.0
of which:  Petroleum         38.4      48.0    101.0
Exports                         2.2       2.6      3.0
of which: Petroleum           2.2       2.6      3.0    IBRD/IDA LENDING, Jan. 1976 2/    (Million US $):
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                 _
Outstanding & Disbursed              17.5       41.0
Since March 12, 1976                                         Undisbursed                          84.5        84.4
SDR 1l= Z 1                                                   Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       102.0      125.4
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
2/  After exchangeadjustments.
3/ Valuation gain realized by sale of monetary gold is included in
Increase in reserves but not in reserve Dosition.
not available
not applicable
EACP  II                           19i6
March Si ,17



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of February 29, 1976)
Loan or
Credit     Fiscal                                       Amount in US$ Millions
Number       Year     Borrower        Purpose           Bank    IDA /2 Undisbursed
Prior to      Congo and    Transport           89.8 /1
June 1960     Otraco       Infrastructure
152         1969      ZAIRE        Technical assis-       -     6.0         -
tance & Highway
Administration
190        1970       ZAIRE        DFC I                  -     5.0       0.0
255         1971      ZAIRE         River Transport        -    7.0       2.5
271         1972      ZAIRE        DFC II                 -    10.0       3.3
272         1972      ZAIRE         Education              -    6.5       5.9
292         1972      ZAIRE         Highway II             -   19.0       9.0
398         1974      ZAIRE         Livestock              -    8.5       5.9
463         1974      ZAIRE         DFC III                -   10.0       7.1
1090       1975       ZAIRE        GECAMINES           100.0      -      84.5
536         1975      ZAIRE         Highway III            -   26.0      24.6
571         1975      ZAIRE         Rail-River II          -   26.0      26.0
TOTAL (less cancellations):           189.8  124.0      168.8
- of which has been repaid:          87.8
TOTAL now outstanding:                102.0  124.0      168.8
Amount sold:                  54.4
- of which has been
repaid                 54.4
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA: /2    102.0  124.0
TOTAL undisbursed:                      84.5  84.5      168.8
/1   Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
/2   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
Fiscal                                  Type of       Amount in US$ millions
Year              Obligor              Business       Loan    Equity   Total
1970       Societe Financiere ,le
Developpement (SOFIDE)          DFC           -       0.76     0.76
Total gross commitments
less cancellations, termi-
nations, repayments and
sales:                                        -      0.76      0.76
Total commitments IIow
held by IFC:                                  -       0.76     0.76
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 255      River Transport; US$7 Million Credit of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: January 17, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project, based on UNDP-financed studies, consists of:
(a) rehabilitation of navigational aids, dredging facilities and equipment
for the Zaire River estuary; (b) improvements of navigation on the Kinshasa-
Ilebo waterway; (c) rehabilitation of the ONATRA river fleet; (d) provision
of experts to fill key positions in ONATRA, RVM and RVF; and e) a feasibility
study of the Voie Nationale, the combination of rail-river links between the
mining areas of Shaba and Zairian seaports. The river agencies have been set
up as autonomous public entities, and all contracts for goods and services
under the Credit awarded.    Success has so far been limited by delays in
procurement, and by the difficulties of recruiting technical assistance of the
right caliber. However, progress in implementing the project has improved
recently, although there are still delays in completing rehabilitation of the
navigation aids on the Kasai River and in completion of two buoy tenders. Finan-
cial constraints and management shortcomings in the Government agencies involved
in executing the project have delayed project completion, and the achievement of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
operational efficiencies and financial objectives envisaged under it. The
original Closing Date, December 31, 1973, was extended twice to provide
additional time for recruitment of technical assistance and for works related
to the rehabilitation of markings on the Kasai River and reconditioning of two
dredgers. The new closing date is December 31, 1976.
Credit 271      Second DFC; US$10 Million Credit of September 24, 1971; Effect-
ive Date: February 1, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Credit 463      Third DFC; US$10 Million Credit of February 20, 1974; Effective
Date: July 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
A first line of credit to SOFIDE was made in 1970 and was
fully disbursed. The second line of credit to SOFIDE was made one year after
the first, since SOFIDE's volume of operations was three times that forecast.
The Credit was not fully committed until December 1973, due to the availab-
ility to SOFIDE of other resources. A Zairian ,eneral Manager assisted by
an expatriate Senior Adviser replaced the Bank-seconded General Manager in
May 1973. The third line-of credit to SOFIDE is almost fully committed.
SOFIDE's operations have been conducted in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
Credit 272      Education; US$6.5 Million Credit of December 17, 1971; Effect-
ive Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: April 30, 1977.
The project consists of construction and rehabilitation of
three teacher training colleges, a demonstration school and four technical
secondary schools, a management study and a survey of manpower requirements.
Implementation of the project is more than two and a half years behind schedule
and the credit closing date will have to be extended by about the same period.
Rehabilitation work on one school in Kinshasa is nearing completion. Tenders
were received for a school in Kisangani and indicated that a large cost
overrun (150 percent over the appraisal estimate) is likely. Consequently,
the Department of Education has decided to reduce the scope of the works
to four high priority schools, postponing another four. The reduced
project would require an estimated US$7.0 million of additional financing.
The Department of Finance has expressed its readiness to sup?ly the necessarv
funds and an amendment to the Credit Agreement is being prepared. Following
the decision to reduce the size of the project, the Project Unit is proceed-
ing with the award of the furniture and equipment contracts for the schools
to be retained in the project. The management study has been completed
and the survey of manpower is proceeding well. The project is being monitored
very closely.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 292      Second Highway; US$19 Million Credit of March 23, 1972;
Effective Date: September 11, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
The project, jointly financed by IDA, UNDP, CIDA, FAC and
USAID, consists of a comprehensive program to strengthen highway adminis-
tration and maintenance and tc, rehabilitate high-priority roads. All project
components, except rehabilitation works, have been completed. The main insti-
tutional objective of the project, the establishment of the Office des Routes
(OR) as a countrywide organization responsible for highways, was achieved.
Twelve contracts, awarded in early 1974 for rehabilitation of about 1,600 km
of roads, have progressed much slower than anticipated, due to the failure or
weakening of several contractors, delays in local payments and shortage of
critical supplies. By the end of 1975, about 600 km of road had been resur-
faced, that is about 40 percent of the total. Some contracts have had to be
cancelled or revised. The OR is now preparing proposals for submission to IDA
concerning completion of the program in the light of substantial cost overruns.
OR intends to complete some road sections with its own resources and to
concentrate available IDA funcds on contracts covering 1,150 km where progress
is satisfactory. OR has strengthened field supervision as necessary to
monitor the ongoing contracts. The present Closing Date of December 31, 1977
may have to be extended.
Credit 398      Livestock Development; US$8.5 Million Credit of June 21, 1973;
Effective Date: February 14, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
The project is intended to develop three large Government
ranches in the Shaba region and to help establish a National Livestock Devel-
opment Authority. The project: also provides substantial assistance (US$1.3
million) for the preparation of future agricultural projects. The consul-
tants for the implementation of the project are in place. The project en-
countered difficulties in the first year due to extensive burning of pasture
on the largest ranch, which led to high cattle mortality; however, a number
of measures have been taken to avoid a repetition of this. Both physical
execution of the project and construction of new ranch infrastructure are
proceeding well. The training of Zairian agricultural technicians is also
on schedule.
Loan 1090       Mining Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of March 8, 1975;
Effective Date: December 2, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
The project consists in expanding the production facilities of
the state-owned Generale des Carrieres et des Mines (GECAMINES) to produce an
additional 120,000 tons per year of refined copper and 4,000 tons per year of
cobalt in form of copper cobalt alloy. Project execution is well underway.
Due to declining copper prices, the company is encountering serious financial
problems which may impede its ability to generate the project financing to which
it is committed. The Government has given the highest priority to this pro-
ject and is attempting to solve these financial difficulties by tax rebates
and other measures taken in the framework of the stabilization program. The
transfer of marketing responsibilities to SOZACOM, a Zairian state-company,
has caused delays in the financing of GECAMINES shipments. SOZACOM's acti-
vities are being closely monitored.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 536      Third Highway Project; US$26 Million Credit of March 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 31, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project, which is a continuation of the Second Highway
Project, is designed to build up an efficient highway administration, to
initiate sound highway sector planning and to assist with the rehabilitation
of a key road. It consists of the following elements: (a) provision of
technical assistance to the Bureau of Roads; (b) organization of two pilot
highway maintenance schemes; (c) establishment of a country-wide logistic
support system for highway maintenance; (d) rehabilitation of the gravel sur-
faced Kabinda Kindu road (about 600 km) (e) a highway traffic survey; and (f)
feasibility studies affecting about 1,500 km of roads. The total cost of
the project estimated at US$40 million including taxes is financed jointly
by IDA, UNDP, the Belgian and French Governments and the Government of Zaire.
Consultants are carrying out feasibility study of the Kikwit-Kananga road
and consultants have been retained to assist with the establishment of the
logistic support system for highway maintenance. The maintenance and technical
assistance   components  of the project have made a good start, and awards for
the first section of the Kabinda-Kindu road are being made.
Credit 571      Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project provides (a) technical assistance to ONATRA,
including a comprehensive training program; (b) finance for a major part of
ONATRA's 1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment,
railroad improvements and track renewal; and, (c) funds for additional river
markings on the Kasai river, port studies and a preliminary engineering study
for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. The Association is providing US$26 million
representing 100 percent of the foreign exchange component of the project.
The Government and ONATRA will finance the local costs amounting to US$26
million. Due to management changes at ONATRA, the Project was somewhat slow
in getting started, but steady progress is now being made.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ZAIRE
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:               Department of National Education
Amount:                    US$21 million equivalent
Terms:                      Standard
Project Description:        (a) Construction, furniture,equipment and technical
assi.stance for five new rural primary teacher train-
ing institutes, including five new primary schools
for practice teaching; (b) rehabilitation, repair,
equipment and technical assistance for six agricultural
technician training institutes and one Higher Insti-
tute of Agricultural Studies; (c) fellowship programs;
(d) evaluation of new programs promoted in the rural
primary teacher training institutes and in the agri-
cultural training institutes; and (e) pre-investment
studies.
Project Costs:*                                             (in US$ millions)
Local   Foreign    Total
Civil works                   13.75     7.09    20.84
Professional services          0.74     0.74     1.48
Furniture                      0.58     0.70      1.28
Equipment                      0.21     1.90     2.11
Technical assistance,
evaluation and
Project administration      0.67      2.31     2.98
Physical contingencies
and expected
price increases            12.05      7.76    19.81
Tot:al Project Cost           28.00    20.50    48.50
(of which taxes and duties) (7.00)     ( - )    (7.00)
'The zaire was adjusted from its former rate of Zl = US$2 to Zl = 1 SDR =
US$1.18 on March 12, 1976. Project costs in local currency were based on
the rate in effect before March 12.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursements:                     IDA Credit
(in US$ millions)
FY:   1976  1977   1978  1979   1980   1981   1982
Annual             0.5  0.35  0.60  4.45   6.95    6.60    2.0
Cumulative              0.40  1.00  5.45  12.40  19.00    21.00
Financing Plan:                                      (in US$ millions)
Foreign Exchange Cost              20.50
IDA                                             20.50
Local Currency Cost                28.00
Department of
National Education                            27.50
IDA                                              0.50
TOTAL                              48.50          48.50
Procurement Arrangements: Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
would be awarded on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding except in the case of the rehabilita-
tion works required for the ITA's and furniture and
equipment costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.
These items would be procured through competitive
bidding advertised locally according to procedures
satisfactory to the Association. Retroactive
financing for professional services of US$300,000
for expenditures incurred after September 1, 1975,
is included.
Technical Assistance
and Fellowships:                                                      Man-years
ENVRs
_ preparation of syllabi                         10
fellowships for ENVR staff                     10
ITAs and ISEA
- development and implementation
of a new program of studies                    20
- fellowships for ITA's and ISEA's
staff                                          29
Project Implementation                           23
Project Evaluation                                2
TOTAL                                            94



ANNEX III
Page 3
Benefits and
Justification:           The rural primary teacher training institutes would
provide 8-10% of the rural primary school teachers
in service by 1990. The six agricultural techni-
cian training institutes and the Higher Institute of
Agricultural Studies would supply 4,500 agricultural
technicians and specialists by 1990.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:         March 31, 1982.
Appraisal Report:          Report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Education
Project in Zaire" (No. 864-ZR, dated March 12, 1976)
is being distributed separately.



- rlIIJHtH IN:OIll  ur Uf  tSUIIIUULI UiML Z,Iuuits  gq  0 r OvlurluurYU  c'  >  ,iSIiro
NATIONAL CAPITAL              UBANGI                               /
( REGIONAL CAPITALS                    f
RIVERS
- -, ----SUB-REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                           /1 'I  R  E
REGIONAL BOUNDARIES                                         Bengrmisa
* INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                       f2u
(   -XVw   t7             9         t S       (  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIVU<UAD
UAT UR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~~U-IVJBRUD'
GABON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ld imi O.ao-'THUP  <u a
| rh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5  H  t0M NO P           0 uOu{_ 
~~~  KIORhOSO  - A  oO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IV                    AD
,X,Maladi _0 MatOdMa                                                              T L-,  0  R3ANZAN,A
FLEUVE ATARACTES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A tion tic  X t h 71ebot,doriet shlo'o  is m,pBdorazoz  KWANGO tv 0l andnjika u  TAN AN/KA
irnply enSorsrnent or rcr,ept He by thetp                             \      J
O   e on fl World Bank and its affilatses .w  ti   As   1  |  !          J3S   ''       \
12e  \   1; F8-  %_._n-*1*      ~~~~~      HAUJT- LOMAMI  @  >          $    v
-y>.__.* --k  CHAD  t/ SDN  < ANGO. 
b NGEIA/ Q'X,C . SUA       ANGOlAS                            H ,t   / B   A   9oi WF
~~N SIGR1 11  y-Y                   ALIALABA                             ,2 SHAUT    Z~AMBIA 
E0UATORIAL'AS-                                                                        T A ZAE  T
GUINEA  c   e*  n       i Z I RE  )                  hibas
/AnSO A           -t- tt i o  loo 2W . 3O0  W  5  _,_. KnZNA 7        ake
GABO k J REUBLC  fRANKWANGOk 
Oce      ZAIdRsEnto  accept-ce blLbutheh
Wo,rd Sunk..d its0 a00     200 3s0
ANIGER                                                        HAILESMAM
Ocean  CADGLA V-.' ~  ~   ~  10   0   0   0    0 
/     ZSUANBA-- ~    ~    KLMEESA1BA~
(                             200~~~ '   0  



