FILE C0P Y
Report No. 864-ZR
Appraisal of a
Second Education Project in Zaire
March 12, 1976
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in their performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEASURES
1 m             1.09 yd.
1 m2             1.19 sq. yd.
1 km            0.62 mi.
1 km2           0.38 sq. mi.
1 hectare   =   2.47 acres
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(up to March 12, 1976)
1 US dollar   =   Zaire 0.50
Zaire 1.00        US$2.00
(from March 12, 1976)
Zaire 1.00       SDR 1.00   =   US$1.18    (as at March 12, 1976)
US$ 1.00   =   Zaire 0.85 (as at March 12, 1976)
IMPACT OF CURRENCY REALIGNMENT ON PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
The cost estimates in US$ in this report are based on the
exchange rates prevailing prior to March 12, 1976. The Zaire is now
at parity with the SDR. At a conversion rate of SDR 1 = US$1.18, the
total estimated cost of the project becomes US$37 million equivalent,
of which US$5 million represents taxes. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is unchanged at US$20.5 million equivalent. The proposed Credit
of US$21 million equivalent would now correspond to 66% of total project
cost net of taxes and duties as compared with 51% before the currency
realignment. The percentages of reimbursement by categories of expen-
diture would be adjusted to reflect this change.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT IN ZAIRE
TABLE OF CONTENiTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSAE.Y
SUWn'JY A"iD CONCLUSIONS    .        .................... ,.,   i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION  .........         ...............................    I
II.   THE SETTING  .........................................             1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Background  ....         ........   1
Development Trends  ....................                          2
Manpower Requirements  ..........................                 3
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM  .......          ...5
The System and Its Problems.                                      5
Education Development Priorities ....................             6
IV. TIE PROJECT .10
Objectives    ...                                                 0
Project Items .                    ..                            11
V.   COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENT.                                   '4
Cost Estimates            ...........  14
Financial Plan ................ .. ....................    18
Implementation of the Project .......... .. ............    19
Procurement .        ........ ..... ..........................   20
Disbursement ..         .......................................    21
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........... ..         ..............    22
Benefits        .............................................    22
Risks    .....................    ...........................    22
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................    23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zaire in February 1975. The mission consisted of Messrs. F. Gamble (general
educator), M. Giuseppi (architect), and D. Klaus (economist) of the Bank and
Mr. D. Beal (agricultural educator, FAO). The project was further reviewed
in  the field by Messrs. Gamble and Giuseppi in July 1975 and by Messrs, Klaus
and Giuseppi in November 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLF 01F CONTENTTS (Continued)
APPENDICES
I.   The Education and Training System
II.   Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Educationa Indicators
2.   Regions:  Populations, Areas, Population Densities,
and Enrollments in Primary and Teacher-
Training Schoolt
3.   Estimated Employment by Sector, 1970-1990
4.   Agricultural Manpower - Needs and Supply, 1973-1990
5.   GDP, Government Expenditures, and Expenditures on
Education and Agriculture, 1968-1990
6.   Budgetary Implications of an Enlarged Agricultural
Service
7.   Possible Implication8 of 1990 Government Primary-
Enrollment Targets
8.   Assisted Primary Schools - Alternative Projections
of Teacher Needs, 1972-1990
9.   Capacities and Teaching-Staff Requirements of the
Project Schools
10.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
11.   Implementation Schedtule
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
Education Pyramid, 1972/73                        W.B. 9748
Structure of the Education System, 1973           W.B. 9749
MAP



Z A I R E
BASIC DATA - 1973
General
Area                                                       2,345,000 Km2
Population                                                 23.4 million
Rural population as % of total                         80%
% deriving their livelihood from agriculture           75%
Population growth rate                                  2.6% p.a.
Education
Enrollments (including over-age students)
Primary (grades 1-6)                                   3,290,000
-Ratio of enrolled to age group 6-11                   86%
cecondary (grades 7-12)                                325,000
-Ratio of enrolled to age group 12-17                  10%
Higher Education                                       17,000
-Ratio of enrolled to age group 18-21                  1%
Adult Literacy Rate in French (est,)                   15%
Department of National Education Expenditures
(1972 - not including assistance from abroad)
Recurrent    Z 64,100,000 (23.4% of government recurrent expenditures)
Capital      Z    870.000 (1.2%/ of government capital expenditures)
Total      Z 64,970,000 (5.3% of GDP)






' L 0 S S A R Y
C.O.        Cycle d'Orientation/Orientation Cycle.  The first two years
of general secondary education. Intended to provide career
guidance, the C.O. usually gives only basic secondary
instruction.
CNCS        Centre National des Constructions Scolaires/National Center
for School Construction--responsible for design of additions
to and repairs of existing school buildings; dependent upon
the DNE.
DNE         Department of iational Education
D4          Primary teacher diploma awarded after four years of secondary
studies, including at least two years of pedagogical studies.
Does not admit to higher education.
D6          National primary teacher diploma awarded after six years of
secondary studies. Admits to higher education. Holders
of this qualification who teach do so mainly in the lower
grades of secondary schools.
ENVR        Ecole Normale a Vocation Rurale/Rural Primary Teacher
Training Institute.
FED         Fonds Europeen du D;hveloppement/European Development Fund.
IFCEP       Institut de Formation des Cadres de 1'En5eignement Primaire/
Training Institute for Primary Education Personnel. A
post-secondary institute to train primary-school inspectors
and teacher trainers.
INERA       Institut National pour l'Etude et la Recherche Agronomiques/
National Institute for Agricultural Study and Research.
ISEA        Institut Superieur d'Etudes Agricoles/Higher Institute of
Agricultural Studies,
ITA         Institut Technique Agricole/Agricultural Technician
Training Institute.
UNAZA       Universite Nationale du Zaire/the National University of
Zaire.






SUMMARY AND C%C LUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in Zaire for
which a credit of US$21 million is proposed.
ii.       Zaire, a vast country three quarters the size of India, had a popu-
lation of only 23 million (10 persons per km2) in 1973. There are great
difficulties in communication and transportation. The country has great
mineral wealth, including some 15% of world copper reserves. Until very
recently, the Government's emphasis has been placed on the mining sector and
on industrial development in the country's major cities, even though only a
fifth of the population is located in urban areas. Agriculture, though
declared the "priority of priorities", has been neglected. Despite the
country's tremendous agricultural potential--while some 50% of the land is
regarded as cultivable, only 1% is presently cultivated--the country is a
net importer of agricultural products. The recent severe decline in world-
market copper prices and export earnings has heightened the Government's
awareness that agricultural production must be expanded as rapidly as
possible. The role of education and training is crucial in this development.
iii.      Since independence in 1960, the education and training system has
expanded rapidly, and enrollment ratios are comparatively high for a country
with a per capita income of about US$130. However, standards are very low
because of poor facilities, minimal maintenance, limited equipment, and a low
proportion of qualified teachers. Although the rate of advancement from
one level of education to the next is quite low, 1/ each level of education
has been largely a preparation for the next level, and the orientation of the
3ystem generally does not reflect the country's real needs. Schools intended
to produce agricultural technicians have become general secondary schools,
with little emphasis on practical agriculture. The main aim of their students
is to enter the university. The same may be said for the schools which
supposedly train primary-school teachers.   These attract the weaker students,
who have not qualified for entrance into general secondary schools and who
take the teacher-training course as an alternative route to higher education.
Partly as a result, only one fifth of the existing primary-school teaching
force is qualified, and even these have received an overly literary training.
Thus, the whole education system rests on an extremely weak base. Although
socio-economic planning in general and educational planning in particular
are still at an embryonic stage, it is clear that the training of rural primary
teachers and of agricultural specialists and technicians is of high priority,
granted the emphasis on agricultural and rural development to which the
Government is committed. This commitment is reflected in the mid-1975 decision
to improve salaries for agricultural staff and lower-level teachers despite
salary reductions in other sectors and levels.
iv.       The first education project (1971) is being assisted by an IDA
Credit of US$6.5 million. It concentrates on development in the major cities
1/   Less than two-fifths of primary school entrants co;.piete the course and
less than a half of those completing proceed to fo:rthet educatien.



- ii -
and is aiding technical education, secondary-teacher training and the training
of staff for primary-teacher-training institutes. The project is about two
and a half years behind schedule, partly because of inadequate implementation
arrangements. 1/ Due to serious cost overruns, the project is being reduced
in scope. Tenders have been invited for the institutions remaining in the
project, and it is expected that all contracts will be awarded by May 1976.
v.        The second education project now proposed would concentrate on
meeting the needs for rural-primary-school teachers and for agricultural
technicians, in line with the Government's emphasis on agriculture and rural
development.   In all the institutions, the stress would be on practical
courses leading directly to employment. The proposed project would include
related technical assistance as well as pre-investment studies for the devel-
opment of a possible third project. Specifically, it would consist of:
(a) buildings, furniture, and equipment for five new rural-
primary-teacher-training institutes, each including a
primary school for practice teaching;
(b) rehabilitation of, and extensions to, six agricultural-
technician-training institutes and one higher institute
of agricultural studies;
(c) project-related technical assistance;
(d) pre-investment and management studies; and
te) evaluation.
vi.       The five rural-primary-teacher-training institutes (Ecoles Normales
a Vocation Rurale - ENVRs) would each have a capacity of 320 places with 240
boarding places, of which 120 would be for girls. The attached primary
schools would each have a capacity of 480. The ENVRs would be built in
educationally disadvantaged areas in five Regions within about 3 km of rural
towns. The minimum entry qualification would be a primary-school certificate.
A four-year terminal course stressing comunity development techniques,
agriculture, and rural health would be given. Also, in-service teacher-
training courses and the development of regionally oriented curricula would be
carried out in the ENVRs, which would thus have a crucial role to play in the
effort the Government is making to re-orient the content, functions, and
organization of primary education. Each ENVR would have a ten-hectare farm
to be used for instruction in agriculture and to supply food for the students.
1/   These included (1) the late nomination of the architectural consultants
(almost two years behind schedule); (2) the choice of architectural
consultants whose head office is located in Athens and equipment consul-
tants whose head office is located in Brussels, with consequent delays
in communication; and (3) the fact that the director of the Project Unit
was not full-time early 1975.



- iii -
Teachers for the ENVRs would be trained in the IFCEP 1/, the post-secondary
institute which is being assisted under the IDA first education project.
Because of delays in the first project, key teachers would initially be
provided under bilateral technical-assistance programs and through technical
assistance provided under the proposed project.
vii.      The six agricultural-technician-training institutes (Instituts
Techniques Agricoles - ITAs) and the higher institute of agricultural studies
(Institut Supe'rieur d'Etudes Agricoles - ISEA) to be rehabilitated and repaired
under the proposed project would give technician and specialist training
appropriate to the respective agro-climatic zones in which they are situated.
Most institutes suffered damage during the civil strife of the 1960s, and
equipment is lacking. The new programs to be offered in the ITAs would em-
phasize technical as opposed to general studies and would allot half of the
weekly timetable to laboratory, workshop, and practical field activities.
In the short term most of the instructors would be provided, as at present,
under bilateral technical assistance programs. In addition, the proposed
project would supply substantial technical assistance for curriculum development
and training of instructors, as well as fellowships for Zairian teachers.
viii.     The proposed project would also provide technical assistance for
project implementation, together with funds for (1) management studies, (2)
pre-investment studies for a possible third project, and (3) evaluation of
the new programs in the ENVRs and the ITAs.
ix.       The project implementation unit already established in the Depart-
ment of National Education for the IDA-assisted first education project would
be responsible for supervising the implementation of the proposed second
project. The project would provide funds for the employment of additional
project unit staff and operational expenses. Contracts would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. However, all tender documents relating to construction would be
prepared so as to encourage the maximum participation of local contractors in
the bidding. Furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each, local transportation services, and contracts for the civil
works for the ITAs and the ISEA would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. In those cases where
international competitive bidding is used, (i) domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% over the
c.i.f. price of competing imports or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is the lower, and (ii) domestic civil works contractors
would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices from their
foreign competitors. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Association
prior to award would be required only for contracts above US$50,000. The
total project cost is estimated at US$48.5 million equivalent and the foreign
exchange component at US$20.5 million equivalent. The proposed IDA Credit of
US$21.0 million equivalent would finance the foreign-exchange component (US$20.5
million equivalent) and US$0.5 million equivalent representing the difference
1/   See Glossary.



- iv -
between 90% of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured furniture and
equipment which are expected to be procured locally after international com-
petitive bidding and their estimated foreign exchange component.
x.        Though small in relation to Zaire's total needs, the project is
designed to provide impetus to the present thrust for agricultural and rural
development.   Teachers trained in the project ENVRs, in both pre-service
and in-service courses, should, by their teaching and example, have a pro-
portionally much greater influence on improving standards in rural schools
than would be expected from their comparatively small numbers. With regard
to the ITAs and the ISEA, the project would, by 1990, enable Zaire to have one
practical agricultural technician per 800 farming families and one university
graduate in agriculture for every five agricultural technicians. Although
the former ratio (1:800) may be increased in the long term to provide more con-
centrated coverage, it seems an appropriate target, given projected development
needs and financial constraints.
xi.       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Develop-
ment Credit of US$21.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Zaire.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Bank Group is presently assisting the Government of Zaire with
an IDA Credit for US$6.5 million equivalent signed in December 1971, to
improve and expand facilities for teacher training and for technical educa-
tion. It also provides technical assistance for studies aimed at improving
the organization and management of the Department of National Education (DNE).
All the project institutions are located in the major cities of the country.
Implementation is some two and a half years behind schedule, due mainly to
the belated appointment of two firms of consultants and partly to the fact
that they were located in Greece and in Belgium, with consequent delays in
communication. It is expected, however, that contracts for all project in-
stitutions will be awarded by May 1976. Because of rapid cost increases due
to various international and internal factors, a cost overrun of about US$18
million equivalent (150% of the total project cost estimated at appraisal)
was anticipated. Consequently, the scope of the project is being reduced
by eliminating improvements to three technical secondary schools and the
construction of a demonstration secondary school in Kinshasa. The construction
and rehabilitation part of the project will now comprise three teacher train-
ing colleges and a technical secondary school. Nevertheless, the reduced pro-
ject is expected to cost some US$7 million equivalent more than the original
total project cost as estimated at appraisal. The required additional finance
will be provided by the Government.
1.02      The second education project now proposed would concentrate on
improving education in rural areas. In the absence of clearly defined educa-
tional policies and plans, it would be restricted to the priority areas of
rural-primary-teacher training and the training of agricultural technicians
and specialists, together with related technical assistance and funds for
evaluation and pre-investment studies. The original government request,
developed with the support of a 1973 FAO/Bank study of the rural education
sector and an FAO/Bank preparation mission in 1974 assisted by UNESCO and WHO,
was for a wide-ranging investment program for rural-teacher training, health
education, and agricultural education estimated to cost over US$130 million.
Before appraisal the health-education component was eliminated by the Government,
and during appraisal the other elements were reduced, having regard to the
limited funds and implementation capacity. The project was appraised in
February 1975, by a mission comprising Messrs. P. Gamble (general educator),
D. Klaus (economist), and M. Giuseppi (architect) of the Bank and Mr. D. Beal
(agricultural educator, FAO), with assistance from the Bank Resident Mission
in Zaire. The project was further reviewed in the field by Messrs. Gamble
and Giuseppi in July 1975, and by Messrs. Klaus and Giuseppi in November 1975.
II. THE SETTING
2.01      Geographic and Socio-Economic Background.  Zaire, with an area of
2,345,000 km/, is almost three quarters the size of India, yet its population
was estimated at only 23.4 million in 1973 (Annex 1). Huge areas of the
country are thus very sparsely populated (Annex 2). Nation-building and socio-
economic development have been difficult for this reason, and these difficul-
ties have been accentuated by the great diversity of the country's inhabitants.



-2-
The population comprises over two hundred tribes, with an even greater number
of languages and dialects. Four principal languages are used in different
parts of the country. The literacy rate in French, the "lingua franca" spoken
by all educated people, is estimated at only 15%. Although current development
efforts strive to overcome these differences, they continue to pose serious
problems for any program undertaken on a national scale.
2.02      One-eighth of the population lives in five large cities, and a great
part of development funds, both domestic and foreign, has been devoted to
facilities in these urban areas. Employment opportunities and social services
are also concentrated in these cities. If the rate of population increase in
urban areas registered during the 1960s (9.5% p.a.) were to continue through-
out the 1970s, then over 30% of the population would be urban in 1980. Such
rapid urbanization is resulting in unemployment, excessive strain on social
services and food supplies, and growing discontent in the cities.
2.03      Although more than three-quarters of Zaire's population make their
living from the land, agriculture accounts for only about 19% of GDP. A mere
10X of agricultural labor (Annex 3) is employed on large, modern, commercial
plantations, yet these produce fully one-half of the country's total agricul-
tural output. The remaining 90% of the country's agricultural labor force
or nearly 70% of the population cultivate small subsistence holdings and
produce only about 9% of the country's GDP: per capita income among this
group was estimated in 1970 at only $25, compared to the then national average
of about $90. Secondary activities (mining, industry, and construction) ac-
count for over a third of Zaire's GDP but for less than 8% of the country's
employment. The country is exceptionally rich in mineral resources, possess-
ing 15% of the world's copper reserves. It is also the world's argest producer
of cobalt and industrial diamonds. Mining and metal processing alone account
for some 22% of GDP but for less than 2% of employment. The tertiary sector
(services, commerce, government), very large in relation to the other sectors,
accounts for almost half of Zaire's GDP yet for only about 15% of employment.
The Government, the largest single employer in Zaire, alone accounts for
almost one-seventh of GDP. Almost half of those on the government payroll
work in education.
2.04      Development trends.  During the period 1968-1973, GDP grew at an
average annual rate of about 7% in real terms. The leading growth sectors
were construction, government, and industry. Agricultural output grew at
only 2.4% per annum, more slowly than population (2.6% p.a.). In 1959, on
the eve of independence, the plantations employed a million people, and agri-
cultural exports earned the country US$160 million equivalent (in 1959 dollars)
in foreign exchange (about 40% of the total value of exports). In 1968, at
the end of the civil strife, agricultural exports had dropped to only US$89
million equivalent (in current dollars), representing 15% of the total value
of exports, and employment on plantations had dropped to 270,000. By 1972,
agricultural exports, at US$120 million equivalent in current dollars (18%
of the total value of exports), had recovered somewhat, but employment on
the plantations probably declined even further. The stagnation of the
rgricultural sEctor is the result of several factors:  the abandonment



- 3 -
of many plantations during the disturbances of the 1960's; the collapse of
civil order, transport facilities, and agricultural marketing networks in
many parts of the country; the massive exodus of rural people to the cities;
the departure of foreign managers following the Zairianization of the planta-
tions; a shortage of qualified agricultural personnel; and, finally, the
Government's policy emphasis on the modern sector, specifically, on industry,
mining, and related activities. At present, only about 1% of the land of
Zaire is cultivated, although it is estimated that fully 50% of the country
is potentially cultivable. Zaire is thus one of the potential land- and
food-surplus countries of the world; yet, in recent years, it has become
increasingly dependent on food imports.
2.05      As long as the copper price was high, the Government could rely on
the mining sector to furnish the revenues needed for development. Although
agriculture was declared in 1970 to be the "priority of priorities", the
sector was in fact neglected. The sharp drop in copper prices at the end of
1974, however, combined with the decline in the production of some important
agricultural sources of foreign exchange (palm oil, rubber, cotton, timber)
and ever-higher food imports, 1/ heightened the Government's awareness that
agriculture could no longer be neglected. In policy statements made at the
beginning of 1975, agriculture was declared to be the "absolute priority",
and the President promised to attack the problems of unemployment, inflation,
and maldistribution of income by emphasizing increased agricultural produc-
tion and productivity. In mid-1975 he announced increased salaries for agri-
cultural personnel so as to attract and retain qualified staff. With UNESCO/
UNDP/FAO/IBRD assistance, the Government is preparing short- and long-term
plans in line with these recent policy pronouncements.
2.06      Manpower Requirements.  Detailed data on manpower requirements
are not available, although a UNDP/UNESCO/ILO-assisted Human Resource Unit
in the Planning Service of the Bureau of the Presidency has begun to conduct
a manpower survey. In 1970, modern-sector wage employment was estimated at
about 24% of total employment. The modern sector suffers from a scarcity of
managerial and technical capacity, in both the government and private sectors.
This scarcity has led to a heavy dependence on foreign experts: over half of
modern-sector managers were non-Africans in 1970, and over one-third of super-
visory labor was provided by expatriates. The IDA-assisted first education
project in Zaire is designed to address these needs by supporting technical
education and educational planning. In the short and medium terms, however,
reliance on expatriates will continue.
2.07      During the period 1970-1973, non-agricultural employment is esti-
mated to have increased at a rate of 6.3% per annum. Even if this high rate
of expansion were to continue until 1990, some 3.6 million workers (over 60%
of the estimated labor force in 1990) (Annex 3) would still have to make a
living on the land. Some of these will find jobs on the plantations, as these
1!   In 1974, Zaire had to Import US$18 million worth of maize, and the
Go;erniment began emergency maize production programs.



are progressively revived; the rest will continue to depend on subsistence
agriculture for a living.
2.08           Sustained agricultural growth will not be possible unless the
requisite numbers of trained personnel are available. A feasible agricul-
tural extension program to reach the 3.6 million farmers predicted for 1990,
within projected financial and training constraints, would involve, at the
crucial technician level, a gradual increase from 650 agricultural technicians
in 1973 to about 4,500 in 1990 (Annex 4), and the proposed project would
supply them. About 900 university graduates in agriculture would be needed to
supervise these technicians. Each technician should be assisted by about
four field assistants, for a total of 18,000.
2.09           At present, there are two constraints to an expansion of the agri-
cultural extension service: (a) the budgets appropriated to the Department
of Agriculture have been consistently inadequate for the Department to under-
take the needed agricultural development program (including an expanded
extension service) to which the Government has committed itself; and (b) more
importantly, the present output of professional manpower for agriculture at
all levels is grossly underqualified for the tasks to be performed. The
Department of Agriculture considers most of the graduates of the Higher Ins-
titute of Agricultural Studies (Institut Superieur d'Etudes Agricoles - ISEA)
and of the agricultural-technician-training institutes (Instituts Techniques
Agricoles-ITAs) inadequately trained. Thus, because adequately trained per-
sonnel are not available for employment, in some years the Department has not
spent even the minimal funds allocated to it. In the period 1968-1972, its
recurrent expenditures amounted to less than 1% of Zaire's recurrent budget
(Annex 5).  Given the Government's intention to emphasize agricultural and
rural development, it would not be unreasonable for Zaire to be spending some
12-15% of the recurrent budget on agriculture by 1990. Annex 6 shows that
this amount would be adequate to pav for the extension service outlined above,
as well as for other necessary inputs.
2.10           An effective agricultural extension service with full supporting
services could bring rapid results in terms of greater production, especially
of plantation crops. The long-term process of increasing productivity and
incomes of all rural people, however, depends on a gradual raising of the
skill level of the whole rural population. The key to such a process is
basic education, at once highly practical and directly relevant to the rural
situation. Such basic education will be necessary for both rural children
and their parents. Well-trained rural primary teachers and technical agri-
cultural personnel are the key cadres for reaching both target groups. This
is realized by the Government: in mid-1975 the President, while announcing
salary reductions generally, approved increased salaries for lower-level
teachers and agricultural staff.
2.11           To sum up, although the mining sector will continue to be Zaire's
main foreign exchange earner for some time, more attention must be given to
agricultural and rural development in order to increase food production and



- 5 -
decrease food imports, raise agricultural exports at least to their pre-
independence levels, improve income distribution, slow the rural exodus, and
integrate the majority of the population into the development process. The
development of other sectors must be coordinated with the new emphasis on
agriculture: transport infrastructure, for example, must continue to receive
high priority, but the transport investment program must be more closely linked
to the agricultural investment program. The education investment program must
also be geared to such a long-term development strategy.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
3.01      The System and its Problems.  The system is described in Appendix I
and Charts 1 and 2. Formal education consists of six years of primary educa-
tion, officially beginning at age six; various secondary-education programs
with a duration of four to six years; and higher education courses lasting
from three to seven years. In 1973, 85% of primary-school and 62% of
secondary-school enrollments were in schools subsidized by the Government but
run by religious groups. Enrollments, particularly at the secondary- and
higher-education levels, have risen very rapidly in recent years: secondary-
school enrollments doubled between 1968 and 1973, as did those at the higher
level between 1970 and 1973. In 1973 primary-school enrollments represented
some 86% of the 6-11 age group; however, due to the large number of overage
pupils, only 63% of the children in this age group did in fact attend primary
school. Secondary-school enrollments represented 10% of the 12-17 age group,
and higher-education enrollments 1% of the 18-21 age group. Enrollment ratios
vary widely from one Region to another; Annex 2 shows that children in
Kinshasa have twice as much chance of attending primary school as those from
Equateur or Kasai Occidental. The percentage of girls enrolled is steadily
increasing, but they still account for less than 10% of higher education
enrollments.
3.02      Primary-school teaching in Zaire is not an attractive profession
because of the poor conditions, and only one-fifth of the country's 80,000
primary teachers have had teacher training. Furthermore, the entrants to the
primary-teacher-training courses are usually those who have failed to gain
admission to the general secondary courses, who merely wish to continue their
studies and go on to higher education if possible. In addition, even the
qualified teachers have received their training in schools which are not
equipped for teaching practical subjects. They cannot cope with the condi-
tions they find in the primary schools, which usually have poor physical
facilities and lack books and the simplest teaching equipment. For these
reasons, primary-school standards are low, particularly in rural areas, and
the whole educational system has a weak base. Repetition and drop-out rates
are high: of the 3.3 million in primary schools in 1973, some 0.9 million
(27%) were overage. Finally, the programs of study in primary education
have been geared principally to preparation for entry into secondary school
and have taken little account of the needs of the large majority of primary-
school pupils (over 70%) who do not proceed to further education.



3.03      At the secondary level, about a third of the teachers are expatriate,
and only one-third Of the Zairian teachers are qualified. Most secondary-
level instruction is geared to the needs of higher education; this applies
to the existing two-year "orientation cycle" (C.0.) 1/ as well as to the
technical and agricultural institutes, which by and large offer only general
education programs with a limited practical bias. More emphasis on terminal
programs directly geared to employment needs is required;isuch an orientation
is particularly important in agriculture, in view of the country's potential
(paras. 2.04 and 2.10). At the higher-education level, most of the professors
are expatriates, and the National University of Zaire (UNAZA) receives a
great deal of foreign aid for technical assistance and other purposes.
3.04      Education and training in Zaire are financed by the Government (70%
of the total), by external assistance (25%), and by the private sector (5%).
In the period 1968/73, the average annual growth rate of the DNE's recurrent
expenditures was nearly 9%, amounting to an average of 20% of the government
recurrent budget, and to nearly 5% of GDP (Annex 5). 2/ Recurrent costs per
student-year in 1971/72 were about US$19 equivalent in primary schools, US$70
in secondary schools, and US$2,100 in higher education. Using an exchange
rate which reflects the scarcity of foreign exchange in Zaire, these figures
become US$15 in primary schools, US$56 in secondary schools, and US$1,680 in
higher education. These costs are lower than in most neighboring countries,
reflecting low primary- and secondary-teacher salaries and the fact that the
substantial aid received from abroad is not reflected in the figures. Al-
though one-fifth of the recurrent education budget is allocated for maintenance
and equipment, schools generally are very poorly maintained and equipped be-
cause of lack of adequate financial and administrative control. The Govern-
ment has given assurances that within two years of signing the Credit Agree-
ment it will establish new procedures for the physical maintenance of its
schools and for the strengthening of financial and administrative control in
the school system.
3.05      Education Development Priorities.  An Education Reform Commission
has been active in Zaire since 1974. At the end of 1974, the Political Bureau
of the Government announced important policy decisions relating, among other
things, to education, agriculture, and the construction industry. These de-
cisions included:
(i) the establishment of government control over the entire
education sector, including those schools founded and/or
owned by religious orders;
(ii) the achievement of universal basic education of six years
by 1980;
1/ See Glossary.
2/ In recent years, however, recurrent expenditures of the DNE have declined
in real terms, reflecting government budgetary stringency.



- 7 -
(iii)  the requirement that all students who were to enter
higher education in September 1975 would have to do
a year's national service beforehand; and
(iv) the replacement of religious instruction in schools with
political and civic education.
Following these decisions, the DNE held seminars in Kinshasa attended by all
major national and regional education officials in order to discuss the
implementation of these measures. Education policy is thus in a phase of
transition.  The emphasis is being placed on the development of terminal pro-
grams at both the primary and the secondary levels which would prepare students
for direct entry into the labor force.
3.06      Since the new policies are still being elaborated, there is no long-
term education plan, and even medium-term programs are yet to be formulated.
Target figures for primary-school enrollments up to 1990 have been developed
by the DNE, but no such targets have yet been set for secondary and higher
education. These primary-education targets have been used in developing
Annex 7; in each case, 55% of total education expenditures have been al-
located to primary education (against 54% in 1972). Secondary education may
then account for 20% of total expenditures (17% in 1972) because more emphasis
than in the past is expected to be placed_on technical and agricultural
training, with resulting higher costs. Higher education could account for
25% of total educational expenditures (29% in 1972) because the rapid expan-
sion of higher education of recent years is expected to level off in the
medium term.
3.07      More significant than the purelv quantitative growth of the educa-
tion sector is the qualitative improvement and the reorientation of the
content and objectives of education, which are important elements of the
new policy being elaborated by the DNE. This reorientation-cum-improvement
is being started at the first level of education, but it is hampered by the
lack of an adequately trained teaching force (para. 3.02). Qualitative
educational improvement through the upgrading of the teaching force must be
geared to the availability of funds. Expenditures on education equivalent
to 5% of GDP are reasonable for a country at Zaire's level of development.
It can be expected that the Government will raise teachers' salaries in real
terms about as rapidly as the predicted 3% p.a. increase in overall per capita
real incomes, 1971 to 1990. At present, a highly-trained (D6) primary teacher
is paid more than twice as much as an unqualified teacher and about 1-1/2 times
as much as a less-well-trained (D4) teacher. If these ratios are retained
and if teachers are allowed a 3% p.a. salary increase in real terms, 100%
of the teaching force could be qualified by 1990, compared with 18% now;
the ratio of D4s to D6s would depend on the class size (pupil-teacher ratio)



- 8 -
chosen (Annex 7). 1/ Annex 8 indicates the annual output of D4 teachers
which would be necessary to meet these targets.
3.08      For decades primary education in Zaire has been predominantly a
preparation for entry into secondarv schools, with emphasis placed on
academic subjects. Rigid rules have governed promotion from one grade to
the next. Repetition and drop-out rates are high (para. 3.02), and the
system has tended to alienate rural children from their environment. Following
the increased emphasis on agriculture (para. 2.05), a concerted effort is
being made to change the content of primary education, with the aim of
making the primary school a major factor in village development. These
changes involve (a) the implementation of more relevant and hence ultimately
more productive programs, particularly in rurally oriented practical subjects
such as agriculture and health; (b) the re-introduction (in 1974) of the
major local languages as media of instruction; and (c) the reorientation of
studies to take local traditions and needs into account.   Also, as the
primary school is intended to be the focus of village activities, community-
development and civics programs for youth and adults are increasingly becoming
part of its functions.
3.09      This need for new expanded functions for the primary school is
fully realized by the Government, together with the need for a new type of
primary-school teacher. An experimental program of teacher training has been
started at five institutesl/ in the Region of Shaba. The curriculum places
emphasis on agriculture and health education and community development. Al-
though the rural-primary-teacher-training institutes (Ecoles Normales a
Vocation Rurale - ENVRs) where the new curriculum is offered lack adequate
practical-studies facilities, the program is proving to be suitable for
training rural teachers. It will, of course, be many years before these changes
affect the whole school system.
1/   These estimates are based on the new salary scales resulting from the
President's decisions of July 1975. Salary reductions were announced
for all government employees earning more than Z150 per month (with a
salary ceiling of Z1,000 per month instead of the previous Z4,000) and
graduated increases for staff earning less than Z150 per month. Edu-
cational and agricultural staff were to be substantially exempted from
the provisions relating to salary reductions. In fact, however, the
new salary scales presently in effect in the DNE represent salary
reductions for all staff above the D4 level (with a few exceptions
for top-level posts) and increases for staff at the D4 level (or
equivalent) of about 5% over the old salaries. Since most primary
teachers are concentrated at or near the D4 level, the bulk of them
have received salary increases. The change in the total of all salaries
was however very small.
2/   Kyondo Kambidi, Kapoloe, Bunkeya, Mufunga, and Kongolo.



- 9 -
3.10      It will also be necessary to provide in-service training for the
primary teachers already in the system. It is essential that, at the indi-
vidual school level too, these teachers receive guidance from teachers
trained in practical subjects and community development, who also know how
to develop teaching aids related to the pupils' environment on the basis of
materials available locally. Finally, in order to ensure that the regionally
based curricula are relevant to local conditions, the development of these
curricula should take place in collaboration with practising teachers and
in the same institutions where the new type of teacher is being trained.
At this stage of development, one ENVR with these functions is to be estab-
lished in each Region of Zaire except Kinshasa, but financial and other con-
straints require that a phased program be adopted.
3.11      The reorientation of the training of rural-primary-sclhool teachers
is only one of several elements required to promote agricultural and rural
development. The improvement of the agricultural extension service and an
adequate supply of well-trained personnel are also essential. At the highest
level, the Higher Institute of Agricultural Studies will be able to produce
sufficient numbers of graduates in agriculture, but these are presently poorly
trained due to the lack of proper facilities and equipment. At the field-
assistant level, on-the-job and in-service training are expected to meet most
of the requirements. It is at the technician level, however, that the most
pressing needs will be felt shortly. The existing agricultural-technician-
training institutes are not equipped to supply the type of technician needed
(para. 2.09). They need rehabilitation and improvement to make possible an
adequate supply of trained personnel. The ITAs to be rehabilitated have been
selected by major agro-climatic zone and their curricula changed from programs
of general education with a limited agricultural bias (para. 3.03) to pre-
service courses for agricultural technicians with a greater practical content.
including farm experience relating to regional needs.
3.12      The present liaison between the Departments of Agriculture and
National Education is insufficient to ensure that the ITAs meet the needs
of the extension service, the parastatal organizations working in agriculture,
and the private sector. While an interdepartmental committee exists, it
meets infrequently and appears to have little influence. A National Commit-
tee for Agricultural Education and Training is to be formed, with high-level
representation from these two Departments and from the Bureau of the
Presidency, to initiate and coordinate action in this field. This Committee
will also need to advise on the future of the lower-level agricultural schools
(Appendix I, para. 14). The Government has agreed to establish the Committee
within one year of signing the Credit Agreement.
3.13           It will be several years before these measures to produce better-
trained personnel will have much effect. In the meantime, consideration
must be given to the provision of the other inputs necessary to the efficient
functioning of an agricultural extension service and to increased agricul-
tural development, such as improved seeds, fertilizers, and transport facili-
ties. At present, these other inputs are almost completely lacking, and the



- 10 -
Department of Agriculture is beginning to reactivate its agricultural centers
to correct these deficiencies. But, since the process of training personnel
takes more time than to supply these other inputs, the rehabilitation of the
ITAs, and of the ISEA and the changes in curriculum should be undertaken as
soon as possible.
3.14           Programs at other levels and in other types of secondary and higher
education are generally not sufficiently developed to be assessed for their
development impact. However, over US$50 million equivalent has already been
committed by various multilateral ancd bilateral agencies to promote high-
priority improvement in the Zairian education sector (Appendix I, para. 28).
At the present time, a UNDP project with ILO and UNESCO as executing agencies
is helping the Government formulate long-term plans which would include tar-
gets and programs for education (para. 2.05). In addition, as part of a UNDP
human-resources study, a manpower suivey is being carried out (para. 2.06).
Moreover, a detailed inventory of school facilities has been completed under
a management study financed as part of the IDA-assisted first education project
(para. 1.01).   Finally, an overall survey of the education sector was conducted
by UNESCO in late 1975 under the Cooperative Agreement with the Bank, which
will provide an additional input for policy formulation and programming. In
the late 1970s, on the basis of these studies, the Bank Group could provide
further assistance for various elements of the overall education plan, once
formulated. Depending on the progress of the first and second projects, a
possible Bank Group third education project might include the completion of
the program of establishing one ENVR per Region, the provision of textbooks
for primary schools, and assistance to various types of specialized education.
To avoid delays in project preparation, the second education project would
provide funds for feasibility and architectural studies for the possible third
project.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01           Objectives.  The proposed project would assist in meeting the high-
priority needs in rural areas for trained teachers and agricultural techni-
cians (paras. 3.06-3.11). It would comprise:
(a) buildings, furniture, and equipment for five new rural-
primary-teacher-training institutes (Ecoles Normales a
Vocation Rurale - ENVRs), each of 320-student capacity with
240 boarding places, together with five new primary schools
for practice teaching, each with a 480-pupil capacity;
(b) rehabilitation and repair of six agricultural-technician-
training institutes (Instituts Techniques Agricoles - ITAs)
and of one higher institute of agricultural studies (Institut
Superieur d'Etudes Agricoles-ISEA);



- 11 -
(c) project-related technical assistance (Appendix II);
(d) pre-investment and management studies; and
(e) evaluation.
Details of student places and staff requirements in the project schools are
given in Annex 9.
4.02      Project Items.  The five ENVRs would provide, for the first time
in Zaire, adequate facilities for the training of rural-primary-school teachers
in the new curriculum which is being used on an experimental basis at five
schools in the Shaba Region (para. 3.09).  This curriculum stresses com-
munity-development concepts, agriculture, and rural health and hygiene, which
subjects account for 20% of the weekly timetable, as against less than 7%
in the curriculum generally used.   A farm of about ten hectares would be
part of each ENVR; the farm would be used not only for instruction in
agriculture-related subjects but also to improve nutritional standards and
reduce boarding costs. The ENVRs would be located within walking distance
of rural towns, so that some of the students would not need boarding facili-
ties 1/ and so that there would be a sufficient number of pupils for the
primary schools for practice teaching. Housing would be provided for six key
staff in each ENVR. A four-year terminal course directly following primary
school would be offered. Since the course would be terminal, students
undertaking it would be more interested in going into teaching than those
who now take the present teacher-training course after the "orientation cycle"
(Appendix I, paras. 12-13). Each ENVR would include a small curriculum-
development unit to promote regionally oriented syllabi and instruction in
the main language used in each Region (paras. 2.01 and 3.08). Also, students
at the ENVRs would be instructed in the development of simple teaching aids
from local materials.
4.03      On the assumption that primary-school enrollments in rural areas
would reach some 4 million in 1990, at most 10% of rural-primary-school
teachers would then be graduates of the ENVRs. However, if, during the
next few years, an orientation cycle can be introduced which succeeds in
its intended purpose of providing effective career guidance (for teaching
as well as for other occupations), then the ENVRs would give a two-year
course, and their output would be doubled. The ENVR-trained teachers would
be expected to provide on-the-job training for their colleagues who have
received less relevant or no training. They would take the lead in the
introduction of more relevant programs in the primary schools and in com-
munity-development activities (para. 3.08). The ENVRs would also be used
for in-service training during vacation periods. The Government is preparing
a Plan of Action for the development of Zaire's system of primary and basic
education which includes a program for the deployment and utilization of
the ENVR-trained teachers. The Government has confirmed that this plan will
1/   It is estimated that the rural towns will not be able to provide
housing for more than one-fourth of the student body.



- 12 -
be presented to the Association within one year of the signing of the Credit
Agreement. The Government has alsc confirmed that it will provide boarding
scholarshIps for needy students in the five new ENVRs.
4.04      The Government wishes to build one such ENVR in each of the eight
Regions outside Kinshasa (para. 3.10). Financial and implementation con-
straints precluded the inclusion of all these Regions in this project. The
locations of the proposed ENVRs are shown on the map; they have been selected
so as to give priority to those Regions less endowed with primary-teacher-
training facilities (Annex 2). Furthermore, the ENVRs are intended to
be located in educationally disadvantaged areas with good agricultural
potential within the Regions concerned. Staff for the ENVRs would eventually
be provided by the IFCEP (Institut de Formation des Cadres de l'Enseignement
Primaire) - the higher pedagogical institute in Kisangani for the training
of primary-school inspectors and teacher trainers which is being assisted
under the IDA-assisted first education project. Because of delays in this
project, the output of the IFCEP may not be ready in time for the second
project; nevertheless, in view of the priority attached to teacher training
by bilateral technical-assistance agencies, it is not expected that there
will be undue difficulties regarding the supply of teacher trainers. How-
ever, the Government has given assurances that it will seek timely assistance
for staff from bilateral agencies, should the output from the IFCEP not be
available in time.   To complement this bilateral assistance, and to ensure
that funds are available to employ key staff, primarily for assistance as
to the methodology for preparing regionally oriented syllabi, the project
would supply some technical assistance (10 man-years of specialist services)
for the ENVRs and 10 man-years of fellowships for their staffs, as detailed
in Appendix II.
4.05      Six ITAs and the ISEA at Bengamisa would be assisted under the
project. The ITAs would be rehabilitated, moderately expanded to reach an
economically optimum size, and re-equipped, so that they would have the
facilities required to teach a full technician course (paras. 2.08, 3.03,
and 3.11). At present, there are 15 ITAs in Zaire (Appendix I, para. 15),
many of which are too small to operate efficiently. Many of them were
severely damaged during the civil strife of the 1960s. The six to be assisted
under the project have been selected to serve the major agro-climatic zones
and so provide a comprehensive coverage of Zaire's main agricultural areas.
All the six ITAs included in the project would offer technician courses; two
would include animal husbandry. Three of the six ITAs would be coeducational
and would include programs geared to the development of an effective extension
service for women, to meet the needs of those areas of Zaire where women play
a prominent role in agricultural production. The ISEA at Bengamisa to be
assisted under the project would produce agricultural and forestry specialists.
The Government's long-term plan is to produce enough forestry graduates both
to supervise the exploitation of Zaire's vast forest reserves and to teach
at the secondary level. Forestry technician training in Zaire cannot at present
be developed for lack of teachers.



- 13 -
4.06      The capacity of the institutes, the present enrollments of which
vary between 110 and 280, would be standardized at 210 student places, plus
an additional 20 places for the in-service training of technical personnel
in specialized fields and in the management of projects or enterprises.
The ISEA at Bengamisa would not have these additional 20 places. Since all
seven institutes are located in rural areas, boarding places must be con-
structed where they do not already exist. The Government has confirmed that
it will provide boarding scholarships for needy students. Housing would be
provided for all staff (to bring the available accommodation up to 15 staff
houses per institute) in the cases where acceptable housing is unavailable
in nearby towns. The revised program of studies at the six ITAs would last
three years (instead of the present four) after a minimum of three years of
secondary education. The outline of the program has been developed with
assistance from FAO and bilateral agencies, and syllabi for some subjects have
been prepared. The new program emphasizes technical as opposed to general
studies and devotes half of the weekly timetable (instead of less than 20%
as at present) to laboratory, workshop, and practical field activities. Al-
together, the whole network would have a capacity commensurate with the
estimated need for trained technicians (para. 2.08) and would provide for
some regional specialization. The Government has confirmed that it will
make all necessary efforts to ensure the employment of the graduates of the
ITAs and the ISEA and that it will furnish the Association, within two years
of the signing of the Credit Agreement, with a plan showing how the estimated
output of the ITAs and the ISEA is likely to be employed.
4.07      Staff for the ITAs and for the ISEA during the next few years would
be provided under technical assistance programs. Belgian technical assistance
is already being provided to the ITAs at Gombe-Matadi, Mondongo, Butembo,
Gandajika, and Tshibashi, and Canadian and UNDP technical assistance is as-
sisting the ISEA at Bengamisa. Although Belgian aid to Zaire is steadily
diminishing, the Belgian Government regards agricultural education as of the
highest priority in Zaire and there is every indication that it will continue
to assist its development. The Government has confirmed that it will seek
timely technical assistance from bilateral sources. To complement this
assistance and to ensure that funds are available to employ key staff, par-
ticularly for the development of the new programs of studies, the project
would provide technical assistance (20 man-years) and fellowships (29 man-years)
for the institutes, as detailed in Appendix II.
4.08      Pre-investment and management studies would be included in the
project, in order to bring a possible third education project to an adequate
stage of preparation and in order to continue the studies designed to aid the
DNE in increasing its financial and administrative control over the school
system (begun under the IDA-assisted first education project to Zaire).
It is expected that a third education project would continue to emphasize
rural education in view of its neglect up to the present. Thus, the three
additional ENVRs required to establish one ENVR per Region (para. 4.04) might
be included in a third project, and the Government, in consultation with
the Association, has agreed to select the locations and the sites of the
three by December 31, 1976. Upon selection of the sites, the Government will



- 14 -
engage consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion to prepare designs, equipment and furniture lists, and tender documents.
Outside the area of rural-teacher training, it is more difficult to be
specifir As mentioned in para. 3.14, long- and medium-term plans for edu-
cational development are being worked out, and it is likely that by early
1977, areas for priority investment will be identified. Any project which
may emerge from the studies currently under way would, if accepted by the
Association for appraisal, be prepared using the pre-investment funds in-
cluded in this project.
4.09      Evaluation.  The new programs promoted by the ENVRs and the ITAs
would need evaluation to assess whether (a) the reorientation of primary-
teacher training has an effective impact in developing primary schools as
focal points for village life and growth and (b) the training of agricultural
technicians is geared to future employment requirements. This evaluation
would be conducted by a panel of consultants (2 man-years) selected on the
basis of terms of reference developed in consultation with the Association.
It is expected that the panel of consultants would visit the country three
or four times during the course of project implementation, visiting the ENVRs
and the ITAs and remaining in the country six weeks to two months each time.
The panel would review on-going operations including those of the rural-
primary teacher-training institutes using the new curricula in Shaba (para.
3.09) and formulate recommendations for changes in curricula and in the
deployment and utilization of the ENVRs-trained teachers, as required. They
would also assist in the formation and training of a permanent Zairian
evaluation unit.
V. COST ESTJMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENr, AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01      Cost Estimates.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$48.5 milliori equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign-exchange compo-
nents of the various project items are given in Annex 10. The costs by category
of expenditure are summarized below:



- 15 -
Zaires (million)          US$ (million)       Percentage
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   of Total
(i)   Civil Works
Site development         1.15    0.59   1.74    2.29    1.19    3.48          12
Academic & communal    2.24    1.16   3.40    4.49    2.31    6.80            24
Farm buildings           0.45    0.23   0.68    0.90    0.46    1.36           5
Student boarding         1.36    0.70   2.06    2.72    1.40    4.12          14
Staff housing            1.68    u.86   2.34    3.35    1.73    5.08          18
Sub-Total             6.88    3.54  10.42   13.75    7.09   20.84           73
(ii)  Professional Services  0.37    0.37   0.74    0.74    0.74   1.48               5
(iii) Furniture                0.29    0.35   0.64    0.58    0.70   1.28             5
(iv)  Equipment                0.10    0.95   1.05    0.21    1.90   2.11             7
(v)   Technical Assistance
Evaluation, and Proj-
ect Administration       0.33    1.16   1.49    0.67    2.31   2.98           10
Total Base Cost
(October, 1975)       7.97    6.37  14.34   15.95   12.74  23.69           100
(vi) Contingencies
Unforeseen events (8%)  0.75    0.45   1.20    1.49    0.91   2.40
Estimated price
increases       (61%)  5.28    3.43   8.71   10.56    6.85  17.41
Sub-Total               6.03    3.88   9.91   12.05    7.76  19.81
Project Total                 14.00   10.25  24.25   28.00   20.50  48.50
5.02      Cost estimates for civil works were based on information obtained
from private contractors, government agencies, and religious organizations
which have been involved in school construction, as well as on recent tender-
ing for educational institutions assisted by various multilateral and bilateral
agencies. Tne average cost for construction of new schools is estimated at
about US$400 per square meter at the official exchange rate. However, at an
exchange rate which reflects the scarcity of foreign exchange, the cost per
square meter is about US$350. 1/ These estimates take into account maximum
use of local construction materials, locally available skills and expertise,
1/   In most African countries, construction costs per m2 for institutions
similar to those included in the proposed project are around US$200-300
equivalent at mid-1975 prices.



- 16 -
and the participation of medium-sizecl Zairian contractors in competitive
bidding. Through the intermediary of the Public Works Department these
enterprises are to be suitably strengthened with financial assistance from
organizations such as OPEZ (Organisation pour la Promotion des Entreprises
Zairoises - Organization for the Pronotion of Zairian Enterprises) and SOFIDE
(Societe Financiere de Developpement, a Bank Grouip-assisted development-
finance company). The high level of construction costs in Zaire is due to:
(i) heavy duties and taxes on imported materials; (ii) very high internal-
transport costs, because of the distances involved, the disruption of the
rail line through Angola, and the extensive losses and damages incurred in
transit; (iii) the economic and political conditions prevailing in Zaire after
independence, which permitted a small. number of major building contractors to
control sources of supply and prices; and (iv) the very high rate of inflation
in recent years.  Recent government measures to control the building industry
are intended to have a stabilizing effect on building costs, and this factor
has been taken into account in the cost estimates. Cost estimates for furni-
ture and equipment are comparable to those in nearby countries; detailed
lists wqould be prepared during the design stage.
5.03      Unit Costs per student place in the new institutions (ENVRs) to be
provided under the project are estimated as follows:
Gross area per Median gross
student place  area per student
in Zaire        place for all           Unit cost per student place
Second          Bank-Group-    Site                                Total
Education       assisted        Develop- Build- Furni- Equip- (Oct. 75
Type of Facility  Project           projects        ment      ings   ture   ment   Prices)
--   --  mL - -------- ---------      ---US$--
a) Academic &
communal        5.0             5.9            430      2,150  170    300    3,050
b)  Farm buildings  1.4               n.a.           58         290   -      150       498
c)  Boarding         5.1              7.3           474       2,370  190      66    3,100
d) Primary schools
for practice
teaching        2.3             3.1            190         954   76      30    1,250
At an exchange rate which reflects the scarcity of foreign exchange, these unit
costs are as follows:



- 17 -
Unit cost per student place (US$)
Site                                               Total
Type of                Develop-                                   Equip-  (Oct. 75
Facility               ment        Buildings    Furniture         ment   Prices)
a) Academic and
Communal          373         1,860           156          294      2,683
b)  Farm buildings       50           250            -            147        447
c)  Boarding            412         2,060           173            65     2,710
d) Primary schools
for practice
teaching          165           830            70            29     1,094
These estimated costs per student place are high; however, they compare
reasonably with unit-cost estimates for Bank Group-assisted education projects
in neighboring countries.  These reach nearly US$3,000 per student place in
similar institutions.  In order to contain costs within reasonable limits,
the Government, in collaboration with Bank Group staff, has taken special care
to ensure that the schedules of accommodation are economical: e.g., utiliza-
tion factors in the ENVRs are estimated at 90% for classrooms and 70% for
specialized facilities, and double-bunking boarding would be provided both
in the ENVRs and in the ITAs and ISEA, where single bunking prevails at present.
In addition, only minimal communal facilities would be provided: e.g., the
functions of the gymnasium, auditorium, and dining area would be served by a
single multipurpose hall. The cost of boarding and staff housing would be
equivalent to 32% of the total project cost. This high proportion is justified
for the reasons outlined in paras. 4.02 and 4.06.
5.04      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Materials imported directly for educa-
tional purposes as well as for government buildings are exempt from customs
duties and taxes. To reduce costs and assist local contractors, imported
construction materials will be bulk procured, to the extent feasible, by
the project unit and supplied to the contractors for use. However, some
construction materials would be purchased by contractors in the open market
and hence would be taxed. The amount of import duties and taxes, including
taxes on locally procured goods and services, is estimated at US$7.0 million
equivalent, or 14% of the total project cost.
5.05      Contingency Allowances.  For unforeseen events, 10% has been added
to the base costs of civil works and professional services (architectural/
engineering) and 5% for furniture and equipment. Estimated price increases
are based upon the application of the following annual rates of price escala-
tion to base cost prices in accordance with the implementation schedule
(Annex 11):



- 1 8-
Furniture
and        Professional Services,  Project
Civil Works    Equipment   and Technical Assistance  Administration
1975        16%            12%                7-1/2%                101%
1976        15%            10%                7-1/2%                10%
1977-79     14%             8%                7-1/2%                10%
1980-82     10%             7%                7-1/2%                10%
5.06      The foreign-exchange component has been calculated as follows:
(a) civil works, 34%; (b) professional services (architectural/engineering),
50%; (c) furniture, 55%; (d) equipment, 90%; (e) technical assistance, 80%;
and (f) project administration, 40%. Including contingencies, the foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$20.5 million, or 42% of the total
project cost, including taxes.
5.07      Financial Plan.  The total project cost of US$48.5 million equiva-
lent would be financed as follows:
(in US$ million)
Government of Zaire           IDA         Total
1.   Civil Works                       21.35                   11.00        32.35
2.   Furniture & Equipment              0.48                    4.00          4.48
3.   Professional Services              0.90                    0.90          1.80
4.   Technical Assistance               0.32                    1.30          1.62
(Specialist Teachers &
Fellowships)
5.   Project Administration 1/          0.45                    1.70          2.15
6.   Unallocated                        4.00                    2.10          6.10
Total                        27.50                  21.00         48.50
of which Taxes                7.00                   0.00          7.00
The proposed IDA Credit of US$21.0 million equivalent would finance the
foreign exchange component (US$20.5 million equivalent) and US$0.5 million
1/   Evaluation and pre-investment and management studies; construction and
procurement specialists and Project Unit operating expenses.



- 19 -
equivalent representing the difference between 90% of the ex-factory costs
and the estimated foreign exchange component of locally manufactured furniture
and equipment expenditures which are expected to be procured locally after
international competitive bidding. The proposed IDA Credit would be equiva-
lent to 43% of the total project cost including taxes and to 51% of the
total project cost net of taxes. The government capital counterpart funds
of US$27.50 million equivalent would be phased over six years with
a maximum contribution of US$10.0 million equivalent in any one Zairian
fiscal year. The Government attaches high priority to the proposed project
and has given assurances that it can meet its share of these capital costs.
The impact of project-generated recurrent costs on educational expenditures
would not be significant since the emphasis of the project is on qualitative
improvement and reorientation of the content of education rather than on
quantitative expansion of the system. The recurrent costs of running the
project institutions are estimated at some Z 0.6 million (US$1.2 million
equivalent) p.a. in 1974 prices, less than a half of one percent of the
estimated annual recurrent expenditures for education in 1980. 1/
Implementation of the Project
5.08      Administration.  Implementation of the project is expected to
require six and a half years from Credit effectiveness, including six months
for completion of payments and withdrawal from the Credit accounts. The
proposed Closing Date is September 30, 1982. This long implementation
schedule for a comparatively simple project takes account of transportation
and administrative difficulties peculiar to Zaire. The existing Project
Unit in the DNE, established as part of the IDA-assisted first education
project, would be responsible for overall implementation of the project,
including the procurement of educational equipment, furniture, and bulk-
imported construction materials, and for liaison with the Association, the
Department of Public Works, the Department of Agriculture, and other government
agencies concerned with the project. The Project Unit presently consists
of a full-time Project Director (an educationalist), a full-time Deputy Director
(an architect), and a part-time accountant. Arrangements which were pre-
viously made to replace the former part-time procurement specialist were
not entirely satisfactory. The Project Unit would need strengthening in
order to undertake the additional work involved in the proposed project.
The Government has confirmed that within one year of the signing of the
Credit Agreement, it will employ full-time a procurement specialist and an
accountant, both acceptable to the Association, and that, in addition, it
will employ full-time, a construction supervisor and five clerks of works,
at times to be recommended by the architectural consultants, before construction
contracts are awarded. The construction supervisor and the five clerks of
works would be employed in the Project Unit but assigned to the Department
of Public Works (DPW). They would work within the organization of the
1/   No operating costs for the farms attached to the ENVRs, the ITAs,
and the ISEA have been included since they would be self-supporting
(as most of the ITA farms already are).



- 20 -
DPW, to which they would be responsible for all technical matters relating
to the construction of the project institutions. The proposed Credit would
provide the funds necessary to meet the costs of employing the procurement
specialist, the construction supervisor, and the five clerks of works under
its technical assistance component (Appendix II).
5.09      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  Design and
supervision of the five E4VRs, the six ITAs and the ISEA would be carried out
by a Zaire-based consulting firm on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. The firm was selected in consultation with the Associatio7n
prior to negotiations; the Credit would provide US$300,000 equivalent of
retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after September 1, 1975 for
their services. The firm will be responsible for the planning and design of
project institutions (including the c:oordination with any other specialist
consultants), preparation of tender documents including those for construc-
tion materials to be bulk-procured by the Project Unit, analysis of tenders,
and supervision of construction work
5.10      Sites.  Sites for the five ENVRs have been proposed by the Govern-
ment.  The Government has confirmed that at least 10 ha of farm land will be
made available for each ENVR (para. 4.02). With regard to the ITAs and the
ISEA, sites are available for the minor additions proposed in the project.
Adequate farm land is available for all of the ITAs except for that at
Gandajika, and in this case the Government has agreed to transfer 750 ha of
land to the institute for livestock-production purposes. For the ISEA at
Bengamisa, a forest concession of between 5,000 and 10,000 ha for forestry
production purposes is to be made available by the Department of Agriculture
through its regional office in Kisangani; these transfers have been confirmed
by the Government.
5.11      Procurement would follow international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines.  However, contracts for the civil
works for the rehabilitation of the ITAs and the ISEA, which are not lilael;
to interest foreign-based construction firms because of their geographical
dispersion, difficulty of access, and the comparatively small sums involved,
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory
to the Association. Furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each and contracts for local transportation services
would be awarded in the same manner, to minimize administrative delays, and
also since foreign suppliers not represented in Zaire are not likely to be
interested in tendering because of the diversity of the small lots involved.
5.12      Sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master lists of con-
struction materials, furniture, and equiPment would be reviewed bv the
Association. Items would be grouped in packages to the extent practicable
to encourage competition and to permit bulk procurement. Most instructional
equipment is expected to be procured abroad and most furniture locally. All
tender documents relating to construction would be prepared so as to encourage
the maximum participation of local building contractors in the bidding (para.
5.02); in particular, they would allow separate bids to be submitted for one



- 21 -
or more institutions or for components (e.g., housing, boarding) of each
institution, as technically appropriate.
5.13      Where international competitive bidding is used, (i) domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of
15% or the existing applicable rate of import duties, whichever is the lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (ii) qualified
domestic civil-works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2% over the bid prices of competing foreign contractors. Review of tender
evaluation documents by the Association prior to contract award would not be
required for contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.
5.14      Disbursement.  The proposed Credit of US$21.0 million would be
disbursed to meet:
(a)  14% of the cost of civil works excluding directly imported
construction materials and local transportation services of such
materials;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for: directly imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment, technical assistance (consisting
of specialists and fellowships), and consultants' services;
(c) 90% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture and
equipment;
(d) 55% of the cost of imported but locally purchased furniture and
equipment; and
(e) 40% of local expenditures for: transportation services for
directly imported construction materials, furniture, equipment,
Project Unit operating expenditures and consultants' services.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for disbursements for project
administration, which would be made against statements of expenses, documen-
tation of which would not be submitted to the Association but retained by
the Borrower and available for review during the course of project super-
vision. The above percentages would be adjusted as necessary to spread
disbursements over the implementation period of the project. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 12. Any funds remaining would be
used for project-related items.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project would provide technical and financial
assistance to support the gradual reorientation of the Zairian education sys-
tem, so that it would be able to play an active role in increasing agricultural



-- 22 -
production and promoting rural development (para. 2.10). In spite of the com-
plex problems faced by the educatiort system in Zaire and the lack of an overall
policy and a comprehensive plan for the sector (para. 3.06), the Government
has already begun this reorientation of the education system. It has (1) be-
gun to re-introduce local languages as the media of instruction at the primary
level (para. 3.08); (2) initiated arn experimental teacher-training program
in the Region of Shaba (para 3.09); and (3) begun including agricultural,
health, and community-development components in primary education and teacher-
training curricula (para. 3.09). The proposed project is intended to enhance
and support this reorientation and would provide the following benefits:
(a) an improved supply of agricultural technicians; (b) a beginning of the
long process of strengthening the education base, through the development and
application of teacher-training methods for primary education geared to the
rural environment; and (c) increased government capability to develop educa-
tion facilities in rural areas.
6.02      The six ITAs to be assisted under the project would, by 1990,
produce a sufficient number (4,500) of agricultural technicians to provide
a comprehensive coverage of Zaire in the ratio of one technician per 800
farming families (para. 2.08). More importantly, it is expected that with
improved physical facilities and the introduction of new programs of studies,
the ITAs and the ISEA would turn out more effective agricultural technicians
and specialists than at present (para. 4.06). The quantitative impact of
the ENVRs would be modest, as only 8 to 10% of the rural-primary-school
teachers in service in 1990 would have received pre-service training in them
(para. 4.03). However, the qualitative impact of the ENVRs on primary
education is expected to be significant due to (i) the development of rural-
and-regionally oriented programs in the major languages of Zaire; (ii) the
in-service training of practicing teachers; and (iii) the community-development
activities the ENVRs-trained teachers are intended to undertake in the villages
where they would be assigned (para. 4.02). Finally, the project would be
the first sizeable government operation for the construction and improvement
of educational facilities outside the five major cities of Zaire. All
project expenditures would be devoted to rural areas, and the strengthening
of the government machinery undertaken to ensure satisfactory project im-
plementation would help establish efficient procedures for financial and
administrative control of the DNE activities in the Regions (para. 3.04).
6.03      Risks.  There are considerable risks associated with the project.
Most of these fall into two main categories: (a) the uncertainties surrounding
long-term educational policy in Zaire, and (b) the difficulties of carrying
out a major construction program in remote rural areas. With justifiable
caution, the project has been kept small in relation to the total needs of
the sector.
6.04      Regarding planning uncertainties, although targets for agricultural
and educational development are still under discussion, the project is based
on a thorough survey of rural and agricultural education in Zaire conducted



- 23 -
by FAO with Bank participation, the conclusions of which have been accepted
by the Government because they are in line with the concerted effort the
Government is making to improve rural and basic education (para. 3.08).
Also, the recent policy statements on universal basic education and on the
role of education in rural development indicate that the thrust of the
project accords with the education policy which is now emerging in Zaire.
In addition, the difference in emphasis between the IDA-assisted first educa-
tion project--which is geared to the development of the modern sector--and
the rural orientation of the proposed second project reflects the "absolute
priority" which the Government now gives agriculture. The proposed second
project thus complements the first and anticipates the changes which should
emerge from the planning of the sector being assisted by the Bank Group,
UNDP, Unesco, and other agencies (para. 3.14).
6.05      As to the difficulties concerning project implementation, care
has been taken to (i) develop a realistic schedule which takes full account
of possible delays resulting from transportation and similar problems (para.
5.08); (ii) ensure that design work would start at the earliest feasible
date (para. 5.09); (iii) strengthen the government services responsible for
carrying out the project (para. 5.08); and (iv) develop tender documentation
which would encourage the participation of medium-sized Zairian firms in
tendering (para. 5.12). These measures would minimize the implementation
risks, and it is expected that the recent reorganization of the Department of
Public Works and the construction industry will also assist in alleviating
implementation problems.
6.06      In spite of these risks, the proposed project's objectives and
potential benefits emphasize its suitability as an integral part of an
overall strategy to achieve the agricultural potential of Zaire, reorient
the content of education, increase participation in development, and bring
about a more equitable distribution of social infrastructure between the five
largest cities, on the one hand, and the rest of the country, on the other.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION
7.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:
(a) maintenance, financial and administrative control for the school
system, coordination between the Department of Agriculture and the
Department of Education, and the development of primary and basic
education (paras. 3.04, 3.12, 4.03 and 4.06);
(b) boarding scholarships, staffing, and sites for the project institu-
tions (paras. 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08 and 5.10); and
(c) project implementation arrangements (paras. 5.07 and 5.08).



- 24 -
7.02      Retroactive reimbursement of a sum not exceeding US$300,000 is
recommended for expenditures incurred after September 1, 1975, for consulting
services (para. 5.09).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a credit of
US$21.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Zaire on standard IDA terms.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration and Structure
1.        Until the end of 1974, schools in Zaire were of four kinds:
(a) public or state schools, founded by the state and
administered by civil servants;
(b) public congregationist schools, founded and subsi-
dized by the state, but managed by local missionary
congregations;
(c) subsidized private schools, founded and run by private
religious groups, usually missionaries, but subsidized
by the state if they followed government programs of
studies; and
(d) private schools neither supervised nor assisted by the
state.
The last category was very small in numerical terms. The schools depending
on religious groups accounted in 1973 for 85% of primary and 62% of second-
ary pupils. Recent government pronouncements have reduced the authority
of the religious groups and have brought the last three categories of schools
more directly under state control.
2.        The administration of public and subsidized schools is highly
centralized in the Department of National Education in Kinshasa. The
Department approves the recruitment of teaching staff and deals with all
planning, financing, curricula, secondary-school inspection, and general
administration. The eight Regional directorates supervise teachers,
administer national examinations, monitor school examinations, and inspect
primary schools. At both national and Regional levels, administrative
and inspectoral staff are poorly equipped and accommodated, coordination
is weak, and there is an overabundance of underqualified administrative staff.
3.        The education system consists of (i) six years of primary school,
officially beginning at age six; (ii) secondary-level education comprising
a four-year "post-primary" terminal course (grades 7-10) or a two-year
lower-secondary "orientation cycle" (grades 7-8) followed by two to four
years of general or technical education; and (iii) three- to seven-year
higher-education courses in the National University of Zaire (UNAZA), which
is composed of 18 specialized institutes and three campuses. Since 1974, local
languages are being reintroduced as languages of instruction in the first
primary grades but otherwise French is the language of instruction throughout
the system. The enrollment of girls is steadily rising, although at the
higher levels the proportion is still very small (see Education Pyramid chart).
After having been abolished in 1968, fees were reintroduced at the primary



APPENDIX I
Page 2
and secondary levels in 1972, but students in day schools are not excluded if
they cannot pay the fees. Most students in higher education receive a bursary.
Primary Education
4.        The basic data for the school year 1972/73 were as follows:
Number of                     Teacher/Pupil
Enrollment  Teachers  Classes  Schools  % Girls        Ratio
Assisted &
Government
schools     3,175,648    77,686   74,472    5,050       38           41
Private
schools       116,372      2,795    2,792       274     42           42
Total     3,292,020    80,481   77,264    5,324       38            41
5.        Of the 3,300,000 pupils enrolled, some 2,400,000 were aged 6-11
(about 63% of this age group) and the rest were overage. The system is
very inefficient, and repetition and drop-out rates are high; 20% of the
total enrollment are repeaters, ard 10% of students drop out annually.
Some of this drop-out is forced, particularly in rural areas, where some
schools do not give the full six-year course and the children cannot find
places elsewhere. Grade 6 enrollments are less than 40Z of those in
Grade 1 five years before, and most of those in Grade 6 have repeated
one or more classes.
6.        This inefficiency is mainly due to the underqualification of many
of the primary-school teachers; of the 80,000 teachers, only one in five has
been trained. Other contributing factors are the use of a foreign language as
the medium of instruction; an academic curriculum poorly adapted to the rural
environment; half-day schooling in many schools; 1/ and poor school facilities.
In the major centers, basic equipment is poor; in rural areas, it is generally
non-existent. There is virtually no maintenance of buildings.
7.        The Government is aware of these deficiencies and is attempting
to remedy some of them; it is emphasizing the development of a new type
of teacher training in a four-year terminal rurally-oriented post-primary
course rather than the full six-year secondary course, few of the graduates
of which become teachers. The use of a local language as the medium of in-
struction in the first grades is being encouraged, together with a more
1/   One group of students attends these schools in the morning and another
in the afternoon. Each pupil has only 15-1/2 hours instruction per week,
as aAalnst 31 hours in the whole-day schools.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
relevant curriculum. The development of primary schools offering the full
six-year course is being given priority. However, taking into account all
the difficulties, improvement is likely to be slow.
Secondary-Level Education
8.        The structure and the organization of secondary-level education
are particularly complex. Total enrollments in 1972/73 amounted to 325,000,
of which 19,000 were in private unaided schools. From 1963 until 1970 almost
all secondary students entered a two-year "orientation cycle" (Grades 7-8)
before being channelled into two- to four-year courses in literary, scientific,
or technical subjects or primary-teacher training. The Government reintroduced
in 1970 four-year post-primary terminal courses in technical subjects and in
primary-teacher training. In 1972/73, enrollments in these courses were
12,700 and 13,000, respectively.
9.        In 1972/73 the total enrollment in the "orientation cycle" was
191,000. In the "sections" (grades 9-12) following the orientation cycle,
the enrollments were as follows:
Section     Scientific   Literary    Teacher Training        Technical   Total
Enrollment     23,600       14,800           43,000             26,700   108,100
A division of the technical enrollment is available only for the government
and assisted schools, and is as follows:
Agricultural
Section    Industrial  Commercial   Social  Paramedical & Veterinary  Total
Enrollment       7,000       8,300    2,800       3,100         2,700    23,900
10.       Secondary-school enrollments have risen extremely rapidly: in
1972, there were 2-1/2 times as many pupils in the schools as there were in
1966. These increases in enrollments have been made possible by operating
schools in two sessions per day in several cases, often using primary-school
facilities. The schools lack equipment, maintenance is virtually non-exist-
ent, and standards are low. The course content is academic and geared to
entry into higher education. Repetition and dropout rates are high, though
not as high as in the primary schools. In the technical schools, some em-
phasis is placed on practical work, but since 1967 the final diploma from
the four-year course after the "orientation cycle" has been accepted for
entry into higher education, and the practical content of their curricula
has declined. Because secondary standards are low, a preparatory year is
often needed before higher studies.
11.       These rapidly rising secondary enrollments have caused increased
dependence on poorly qualified teachers and a continuing need for expatri-
ate teachers. Of the 13,800 secondary teachers, 4,200 are expatriates. Over



APPENDIX I
Page 4
three quarters of the expatriate teachers are qualified, and these are mainly
employed at the upper-secondary level. Only a third of the Zairian teachers
are qualified; however, this proportion is steadily rising. Efforts are
being made to make the curriculum more relevant to the environment, but
instructional equipment is lacking and too few local teachers have been
suitably trained.
Primary-Teacher Training
12.       This is carried out in three programs:  (i) the reintroduced
four-year post-primary course already mentioned (para. 7), with an enroll-
ment of 13,000; (ii) a two-year course in secondary schools following the
orientation cycle, enrollment 4,300; and (iii) a four-year course in secondary
schools following the orientation cycle, enrollment 38,000. The special
one-year course following general secondary studies is numerically unimportant;
it enrolled only 245 in 1973.
13.       Teaching is not an attractive profession in Zaire because of poor
pay 1/ and conditions, especially in the rural areas. The teacher-training
sections of secondary schools enroll the weaker students who were not able
to enter the literary or scientific sections. They wish to continue their
education rather than to become teachers; it is said that they would rather
be unemployed in an urban area than teach in a rural area. Furthermore,
the training in these sections differs little from that in the literary or
scientific sections of secondary schools. For these reasons the Government
is emphasizing the development of the four-year post-primary course in
Ecoles Normales a Vocation Rurale (ENVRs)--rural-primary-teacher-training
institutes. At experimental schools at Kyondo Kambidi, Kapoloe, Bunkeya,
Mufunga and Kongolo, in Shaba, a new four-year curriculum placing greater
emphasis on agriculture and public health is being used. This new curriculum
is proving very successful, in terms of providing well-prepared and well-
motivated rural primary teachers, although the practical-training facilities
of the existing schools are inadequate. The Government hopes to increase the
number of teacher-training institutes in which this new curriculum is offered,
and the ENVRs included in the project would be the first in Zaire to provide
adequate facilities for this new curriculum.
Secondary Agricultural Education
14.       Twenty-six vocational agricultural schools had a combined enrollment
in 1972/73 of 1,600; they offer either a two-year program after the "orienta-
tion cycle" or a four-year post-primary program under the system reintro-
duced in 1970. Originally intended to train agricultural field assistants,
or veterinary assistants in the case of two of the schools, they now provide
a vocational type of post-primary education with a view to their students
remaining in rural areas and in agricultural work.
1/   A fully qualified (D6) teacher is paid, on the average, Z 63 per month,
a D4 teacher, Z 43, and an unqualified teacher, Z 29. These salaries
are so low that teachers, especially in urban areas, often have other,
part-time jobs.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
15.       Fourteen agricultural and veterinary Instituts Techniques
Agricoles (ITAs)--agricultural-technician-training institutes--existed
in 1972/73, with an enrollment of 1,735 students in a four-year program
after the orientation cycle. One new institute was started in 1974. The
study program has two objectives: entry to higher education and some profes-
sional training in agriculture. However, it is predominantly concerned with
theoretical and general courses; only one sixth of the weekly timetable is
allotted to practical work. The institutes thus are not geared to satisfying
the need for practical agricultural and livestock technicians for the Depart-
ment of Agriculture or other technical agencies. The Government now intends
to make these courses more practical and terminal, and the project would
assist this reorientation.
Secondary Technical Education other than Agriculture
16.       This consists of (i) the post-primary four-year course reintro-
duced in 1970, (ii) two- or three-year 'short' courses after the orientation
cycle; and (iii) the four-year 'long' course after the orientation cycle
which can lead to higher studies.  In addition to the official and government-
assisted schools, there were in 1972/73 fifty private unaided schools offering
this type of education to 5,070 students; it is not known how they were
divided by specialty. As in some of the government schools, individual-
school enrollments are often too low to permit efficient and economical
operation.
17.       The main sections in the official and government-aided schools
include:
(a) Industrial education, offered in 112 schools, with an
enrollment of nearly 16,000, of whom 9,000 in the four-
year post-primary course, 3,000 in the short, and 4,000
in the long course after the "orientation cycle". Enroll-
ment in these schools has increased rapidly in recent
years, and the Zairian staff lack training; this situation
should improve when the technical-teacher-training college
at Likasi included in the IDA-assisted first education
project begins functioning. Most schools lack small tools,
spare parts, and raw materials, and their maintenance budgets
have been cut to a bare minimum.
(b) Commercial and administrative education, offered in 31
schools with an enrollment of over 8,000, 90% of whom
were in the 'long' course. Many teachers of commercial
classes are part-time.
(c) Training in social work, offered in 14 schools with
an enrollment of nearly 3,000.
(d) Paramedical training, offered in 51 schools with an
enrollment of over 3,000, divided evenly between the
short and long courses.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
Higher Education
18.       Higher education was nationalized in August, 1971, by a law which
created the National University of Zaire (UNAZA). UNAZA comprises the
formerly separate Universities of Kinshasa, Lubumbashi, and Kisangani
together with eleven higher institutes of pedagogy (i.e. secondary-teacher-
training institutions) and seven higher institutes of technology. The
underlying idea in the formation of UNAZA was to improve control, ration-
alize the higher-education system, and avoid unnecessary duplication of
facilities. Many problems are being encountered, but some progress has
been made. In 1972/73 the three university campuses enrolled 11,100
students; the pedagogical institutes, 3,300; and the technological ins-
titutes, 2,500, of whom 900 were in private institutions. UNAZA employed
1,400 full-time teaching staff in 1972/73, of whom 600 were Zairian, and
a small number of part-time staff.
Other Training Programs
19.       The Department of Youth and Sports runs centers for unemployed
rural youth in which training in fields such as agriculture, mechanics,
masonry, carpentry, home economics, etc. is offered. Students with a
primary-school certificate who are at least 15 years old are admitted
to the four-year course; older students with more education complete the
course in three years. Lack of facilities and limited employment possi-
bilities have restrained development of the system; detailed statistics
are not available. A similar system for unemployed adults (over 17 years
old) is administered by the Department of National Education; training is
offered in building, electrical, and mechanical trades. The adult educa-
tion programs formerly under the Department of Social Affairs which con-
centrated largely on training programs for women have recently been
placed under the personal direction of the President's wife, Mama Mobutu.
20.       Vocational training outside the formal education system is given
by the Institut National de Preparation Professionnelle (INPP - National
Vocational Training Institute), created in 1965 with UNDP assistance.
Nearly 10,000 workers have been trained at centers in Kinshasa, Boma, Kisangani,
and Lubumbashi. The programs comprise on-the-job training for upgrading
employees' skills and training at the INPP's own facilities for workers and
for limited numbers of school leavers. This training has been successful and
is closely coordinated with the needs of industry and commerce, which finance
the operations of the INPP through a 1Z tax on payroll. Certain large enter-
prises such as Gecamines also run individual in-plant training programs to
satisfy their specialized needs.
Education Finance
21.       Education and training in Zaire are financed by the Government,
by the private sector, and by external assistance. Most of the funds are
channeled through the Department of National Education. Very little is
recorded about expenditures on education and training activities outside



APPENDIX I
Page 7
that Department. The team for human-resource and education planning under
the Planning Service of the Bureau of the President is in the process,
however, of collecting data on such activities and expenditures so that more
information should be available in the future. The estimated expenditures
on education and training in Zaire in 1973 are summarized in the following
table:
(million of
current Zaires)
Recurrent expenditures by the Department
of National Education                                  61.4  (66%)
Recurrent expenditures by other Departments                1.7   (2%)
Central government capital expenditures
on education                                            1.8   (2%)
Private expenditures on education                         5.0   (5%)
External assistance for recurrent
expenditures                                           17.9  (19%)
External assistance for capital.
expenditures                                            5.2   (6%)
TOTAL                                          93.0 (100%)
22.       Budgetary procedures of the Department of National Education have
been weak in the past. Under the IDA-assisted first education project in
Zaire, a consultant firm has been active in aiding the Department in this
respect, and information on expenditures by type and level should become
increasingly available. In the school year 1971/1972, expenditures on
education by level were estimated as follows:
(millions of current Zaires)
Primary Education                                  29.9  (54%)
Secondary Education                                 9.4  (17%)
Higher Education                                   16.0  (29%)
TOTAL                                         55.3 (100%)
23.       Unit costs (expenditures per pupil-year) in 1971/1972 were about
US$19 in primary schools, US$70 in secondary schools, and US$2,100 in higher
education.  Using an exchange rate which reflects the scarcity of foreign
exchange in Zaire, these figures become lower:  US$15 in primary schools, US$56
in secondary schools, and US$1,680 in higher education. Comparative figures
are given in the following table:



APPENDIX I
Page 8
Unit Recurrent Costs, 1971 (in US$ Equivalent)
Primary   Secondary   Higher
Kenya                                  30          190      3,000
Uganda                                 25          220      2,200
Zambia                                 45         390       3,700
Zaire                                  15           56      1,680
It is noted that the figures for Zaire are consistently lower than for the
other three countries.  For primary education this difference is probably
due to the very large proportion of unqualified (and therefore low-paid)
teachers in Zaire. For secondary and higher education the data are not
fully comparable because of differences in the structure of education and
since the figures for Zaire do not include the large foreign assistance
component.
24.       The following table gives an estimated breakdown of the Department
of National Education's recurrent expenditure by type in 1973.
Recurrent Expenditure by Type, 1973
(Millions of current Zaires)
Salaries (including administration)       43.0        (70%)
Bursaries                                  4.9         (8%)
Maintenance and Equipment                 11.7        (19%)
Boarding                                   1.8         (3%)
TOTAL                                61.4       (100%)
25.       In the period 1968/73, the recurrent expenditures of the Depart-
ment of National Education grew at an average rate of 8.7% per year, in
real terms. 1/ During this period, they varied between 15.6% and 23.4% of
the general government recurrent budget, and between 3.4% and 5.5% of
GDP. Annex 5 shows past and projected recurrent expenditures of the
Department of National Education, and their relation to the general govern-
ment recurrent budget and to GDP. Since other sectors will continue to
exert pressure to retain their present shares of the government recurrent
budget and GDP, it is considered unrealistic to expect that education could
receive more than 22% of the total recurrent budget (5% of GDP). In this
case recurrent expenditures on education would grow about as fast as GDP
over the next 15 years, at average annual rates between 5% and 6%.
1/   In the period 1971-1973, however, they declined in real terms, reflecting
budget stringency.



APPENDIX I
Page 9
26.       The Department of National Education's capital expenditures
show erratic yearly changes, and their part in total educational expendi-
tures is extremely low, since by far the largest part of capital expendi-
tures on education in Zaire has been financed by foreign aid. In fact, over
the period 1968-1973, capital expenditures for education by the Government
of Zaire dropped in real terms and appear to have been inadequate.
27.       Foreign Aid to Education.  Estimated foreign assistance to recur-
rent expenditures in the Zairian education system is given in the following
table:
Recurrent Educational Expenditures
Provided under Foreign Assistance Programs, 1973
(Millions of Zaires)
Belgium                                        15.0
UNDP                                            1.0
France                                         0.8
Others (Germany, Canada, USA)                   1.1
TOTAL                               17.9
The Belgian program provided about 830 teachers (including several teachers
of technical subjects) and educational administrators, some 900 scholarships,
and direct subsidies to the university. The UNDP contribution was mainly for
the National Mining Institute, the National Building and Public Works Insti-
tute, the Higher Agricultural Institute at Bengamisa, the Upper Secondary
Teacher Training College, the Training College for Primary Teacher Trainees
and Inspectors, and the Human Resources and Education Development Project,
which is aiding the planning of human-resource and education development in
the Planning Service. The French program consisted of 110 teachers (mainly
teachers of French and mathematics) and 60 scholarships. Canadian aid has
given substantial assistance to the Higher Institute of Agricultural Studies
at Bengamisa.
28.       Foreign capital assistance to the Zairian education system is
given in the following table:



APPENDIX I
Page 10
Foreign Capital Assistance to Education (as committed by 1974)
(Millions of Zaires)
FED                                            17.8
IBRD                                            3.3
USAID                                           3.2
The Netherlands                                 0.8
Others                                          3.0
TOTAL                                     28.1
The FED program consists of construction and equipment for seven Secondary
Teacher Training Colleges, each with a capacity of 250-300 students. USAID
and the Netherlands have been mainly assisting construction at the univer-
sity. Disbursements were 5.2 million Zaires in 1973.
29.       USAID has recently chosen three rural development areas in which
it intends to provide integrated rural development projects, including
training elements. Recent FED projects have a similarly integrated nature,
with emphasis on increasing production and with training limited to new
production techniques.



APPENDIX II
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Most of the technical assistance needed in connection with the
project, i.e., qualified specialist teachers, is expected to be provided
by bilateral donors, in particular, Belgium, Canada, and France. It is
not expected that any UNDP funds will be available for this purpose.
2.        To complement this bilateral assistance, to ensure that funds
are available for essential staff, and to give the government of Zaire
greater flexibility in seeking qualified staff, in the initial stages of the
project, technical assistance would be provided as part of the proposed project.
Where possible the technical assistance should be provided in teams by
specialist institutions rather than by the appointment of individual experts.
Detailed terms of reference for technical assistants would be approved by the
Association. The distribution of specialists and fellows is provisionally
as follows:
A.   Ecoles Normales a Vocation Rurale (ENVRs) -
Rural-Primary-Teacher-Training Institutes
3.        An experienced specialist in the operation of an ENVR would be
appointed to each institute for a period of two years as an adviser to the
director. Total: 10 man-years.
4.        Fellowships of one year each would be provided to two Zairian
staff in each ENVR, who would each spend one year abroad and one year with
the specialists above. Total: 10 man-years.
B. Instituts Techniques Agricoles (ITAs) and Institut Superieur d'Etudes
Agricoles (ISEA) Agricultural-Technician-Training Institutes and Higher
Institute of Agricultural Studies
5.        Two specialists, each to serve for three years in the headquarters
of the Department of National Education. One would advise the Division Chief
of Technical and Vocational Education on the reorganization of the ITAs and
the ISEA and on planning agricultural education, including liaison with the
Department of Agriculture. The other would develop detailed programs of
studies in the ITAs and the ISEA in collaboration with the staff of the schools
and in collaboration with the evaluation team provided under the project.
Total: 6 man-years.
6.        An experienced specialist in the operation of an ITA would be
appointed to each institute for a period of two years as an assistant to
the director. An experienced specialist would also aid the director of the
ISEA. Total: 14 man-years.
7.        Fellowships of one year each for the following Zairian staff:



APPENDIX II
Page 2
(i) for visits to practical technician-training institu-
tions for the Zairian Director of Agricultural Education
and Training. Total: 1 man-year.
(ii) for additional training in the organization and admin-
istration of an ITA for the Zairian directors of the
six project ITAs and the ISEA. Total: 7 man-years.
(iii) for accelerated training in agricultural education and
extensive methodology for three Zairian staff from each
project ITA and the ISEA. Total: 21 man-years.
C. Project Implementation
8.        A qualified construction supervisor (4 man-years), a procurement
specialist (4 man-years) and five clerks of works (3 man-years each) would
be financed under the Credit. Total: 23 man-years.
D. Summary of Costs for Technical Assistants, Fellowships, Evaluation, and
Pre-Investment Studies
Man-
Years  US$          US$
(i)  ENVRs         --   Specialist services 10 x 40,000        400,000
Fellowships          10 x  7,000       70,000
(ii)  ITAs and ISEA --   Specialist services 20 x 40,000        800,000
Fellowships          29 x  7,000      200,000
(iii) Project
Implementation --  Construction
Supervisor            4 x 35,000      140,000
-- Procurement
Specialists           4 x 35,000      140,000
--  Clerks of Works      15 x 30,000      450,000
(iv) Evaluation, pre-investment and
management studies                                        600,000
Total estimated costs (excluding contingency
allowances): US$2,800,000 or Z 1,400,000



COMPARATtVE EDUCATION tNDICATORSb                                              ANNEX I
JANUARY 9, 1974 
I       I    I  I          a         I               I         I       Ia         I      I           I           I        a      I       I
I       i GNPI I I IMP  t% TOTALIR  Of PUBLtC a                aI      I          aPRt. IAV.PRI.  I              a        $$11C   I      I
I       aCAPI7Aa OEVOTEDOPUSLIC I EDUCATION    ILITER. I PRI. SCOMPLE% aSTU. tGCW.TfACMsPRO6RESS.a  SEC. tSTU. I 
I       a  AT  I TO EDU.s  EXCP. a RtCURRENT    SACY           aENROLLITIOM1    tIDNTSiSALAR   INtiION RATE tEN4OLLDfTSiM1vA%
I       iMARKETI  (PUSLICoOEVOTEDaEXP ALLDCATED,   RATE $RATIO $RATE FORaPER   #RELATION #FROM PRI.tQATIO aPER  SENROLL4
I pop. IPRICteS  COP,    a  TO    a         TOt      M0  of; a MET  aPISo,TEAOHa  TO aNP,I iTO SEC.  I NET  STEACH- RATIO,
7R0(000) I (US$)$ ONLY)   a  EDU, aPRI. SEC. 41.IADULTS)t (X)  IcpCYLE;ccROSER    i CAPtTA  i                 a    (2) a     E aI   I CS)  I
a (10 ~~.  (2) a  (3)    a  (4)  Is     (5)      a (6)   aI(7)  a  (8)    a (9) a, (10)    a (10)            aOl?)  a(131 I(I1)
kOAD NC CD
AUSTRIA         73   7.50 2,41CC        4.3      9.9     470  250  200    99         96       93        24       2.0        99        S1      19       5.00
CANADA          72  20,5   4,440        7.7    19.4      30   38    19      98       so       98        24       2.0        99        62      07       9.08
GERMANY P.REP.72  40,4  3,390           4.2    14I,2     ..   74*4 24       e9       9a       99        33       ...        99        91      22      17.0607
JAPAN           71 104.9C 2,32CC        4.3    20.7      39   35   012    99         990      990       250       ?.0       99C       94D    20C    28.000
NtTHERLANDS   72  13.3  2,540           5.5    19.10    32   49S   to    99          95       95        29        3.0       97        73      29      11.00
NEN rEALAND    73   2.90 2,510C         5.2    ..        39   24   29       99       99       99        26       ...        99        47      19     24.00
NORtWAY         72   3.9  3.340         7.0    05.2      56   23    13      99       99       96        20        1.9       99        71      14      11.00
SWEDEN          73   5.10 4,8600        6.9    01.0      31    14    13    99        99       99        17      ...         90        55      tC      30.00
U.K.            70  55.80 2,100C        5.6    03.8.        .     .         97       98        ....so 5                                        to    O...
U.S.A.          72 t0o.s  sis9C         1.0    15.4            7     27     99      99        99        25U       2.0       ...       93      19u   29.0
EUROPE
GREECE     ~~~~71    6.V90  1,4b00  2.2    1t.1      SOY  29V  147    SEA       957       ...       327     ...         bOA       SOY    43Y       10
IRELAND         72   3.0  1,9580        5.1    13.90   43Y  41Y  t4y   '9            97       q99       35       ...        95A       7S      19       7.O
PORTUGAL        72   9.7       730.         ....sx ..                                                   ..       .            ..      40       ...    7.407
spAiN           71  34.3c  1.0000        .6 1.A          49    2      6      4       9904A    ..         5       ..                   219A    30       4.004
AFRICA
ALGERIA         73  t.4.?    430C-   9.OA    ..          43   32    16    iSA        17       54        43        4.0        37       lax    26        3.60
SENIN           73   2.q0    1000       5.3    32.0      47   23   to       It       32X6     708       s0e     25.06        436       76      398     0.4407
BOTSWANA        74    0,7      300      5.0    20.0      38   20    is    25         7eX      75        35        5.0       24        030      1a      0.30v
BURUNDI         72   3.1        4 b      ..      ...2.7067                                    .         34!Y    .             .        2057   ClAY    O.0567
CA4ERDON         73   6.1.C    2.60    -.9    a'o 2'O    3'a '29"Y  1 77 'v          74         .       SIDY    .,C     23C7    0.900Y
0.4.9.          T0    0.IC    teaC      4.0W  20.0       54i   19 ..       . ..      4C0Y     25        IsCY    ..                      0      2767    0.077
CHAD0           75   1.0c       80c      3.0   10.0      78   22       0    15       29fl7    30        65BY    15            8         2XBY  30       0.0O107
CONGO(S)        73    1.30    3000      4.8   26.4       455Y 3S0Y 156Y  SO?    038X           ...      63      .             .       29      437      2.44CV
ETH4IOPIA       73  25.90       80      3.1    20.0      42   29   15         7      17n      42        50        3.0       43         2        0      0.20
BARON           73   O.SC    6641       6.0    20.b      25     9   It      ...    084087    26C        440       5.0        ISA      2cC    210       I.*0OC
SHVAMA          71   9.10.   3000       4.7    MO.4R  38G  159  230    ...           SIxcy    42        30CY    ,            14       014      1407    0,745y
IV39Y COAST    72   S.4        340      6.3    24.7      2767 335V 137       94      St       574       446      ....                  0       25      02S
MEN7A      ~~~~~73  12.00    170    4.     27.0      631 I 111           0      15                  40        8:0       04        12       3       0033
LESDTWO         73   0.9C       900     4.7    22.0      450  iIC  240    40         45        ...      45         .         ..        I       22       .3
LIBERIA         74    0.40    333C      2.7    13.9      25'  03   22       ...      Se       ...       39         .e         .       20       20      1.IOAY
MALAWI          74   470C   0ocC    3.1   20.9..... ..*                     25       sIx       0        s0        ',2        40        40      20      0.26C7
MALI            74   6.10       700     4.&N  32.3       348  526   126    to        1o       2z        40       08.0       37         4       I?      0.16A7
MAURITANIA      70    0.20.  1600       4.5    20.0      .. ..... 010                150       ...      22        ...        ...       3       24       .
MAJOIRT0US      72   0,5       300      3.7    IL.7D    71   t0       4    80        66       99        31        ..         .        30       30      1.4,7C7
MOROCCD         74  01S.6      2740C    5.00   14.5      44    47     9    24?       Sax      21        ST        ..1S                iso     22       2.0
MIGERIA         71  49,30    130C       3.2N  ...        404  14A  iDA    ...        39007    ...       34CY      ..   ...             4       2ac7    0.37Ev
RWANDA          73   3,7C       IONO    3.20   26.00    ...  ...  ...   23           52        ...      S1        ...        ...       2       13      0.230y
SE4EGAL         71    4.00    2500      4.ON  22.SD9  354  421    54    to           360       ...      41        ..         ..         l     25       1.7007
SIERRA LEONE   73   ~~2.70    1900  3.8    23.4    it   34    50       15?     34         6       3         4O          6       16        0      0f6
SOMALIA         73   2.90       SOC      ...     7.0     57    14    13       5      0s       90        35      05.0         45        3       to      1.0
SUDAkN          72  14.5       020      4.S   13.2       43   29   an       1s       36       75        45        4.0       25        11      20       1.237
SWAZILAND       72    0.40    240       4.3A  19.7       37   24    t6      28       44       22        38        7.0        ,.*      040     20       0.0
TANZANTA        74  13.20    0100       5.0N  17.0       34    ...  02      43       440       ...      49        a.                          200      0.3
TUNISIA         73   5.30    3oCC    4.3   23.4          37   43    18      Ss       72       51        as        4.0       30        14       21      Soo
UGANDA          70  10.4C    0500       S.2N  17.4CR   40G  220  250    iSA          4SXCY    .         36        ...        144       6007  21        0.6887
UPPER VOLTA    72    5.4        44      4.0   23.9       45    10     &       5      t0o       .        45       16.0       20         2      23       0.6167
ZAIRE           73  23.4       12?      S.2CN 20.30    540   17C, 240    1s          43       38        4SA       4.0       43         a      24       0.945y
ZA48IA          73   4.50    3600       5.4    04.5      44   22    t0      43       954       ...      s0        ...       20        054     20       0.44A7
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIRSEAN
COS    ICA      7       .0     40       5.2   22.7       57   25    12       69      8407     45s       29         3.0      Ss        2207    as      12.1l0y
00OM14ICAN REP,72    4.2.    460        2.5    t5.509   42   24   22    S1           to        17       54         3.00      63       13      24       7.00
EL SALVADOR    75    3.70    3460       3.4    23.6      b0      5   22      SsAY    70007    ...       3907       ...       ..       144CY  21CY    4.318y
SU4TMMLA         73   S6.4     4200      0.9    14.0     SS   23    04       47       46       24       35         3.0       49        S      25,      4.097
HAITI           la   9.9       030      0.9      b*40    61   1t    8    206         22       25?       45         5.0       sC        3      23       1.00?
H0ONURAS        72   a,?       320      3.9   26.50    44    13    as       52       six       08       37         4.0       75       14X      14      3.00
JAMAIC4         72    1.9'    510       4.67Y  09.7      337  227    77    64       10407      ...      52         ...       ...      32X7   19        4.79V
MEXICO          70  54.10    7S00       2.6      9,3     54   24    1s    74         70       31        46         3.0      43        29      23       4.3207
NICARAGUA       74   t.vIC    430       2.5    04.2      40    is   03      ST       45       21        37         2.0      93        I7      24       7.0
TRINIDAD a 7. 71    0.90t   9400        5.1    16.9      53.   27    12     90       950      67        35         4.0       Is       .9      25       2.5447
SOUTH AMtERIA
SPAZIL     ~~~~78  98.20    5300    4.3    12.00    42   20       37   79        600      ...       2707       ...      ...       186     1507    4.006
CHILE           72  00.0       gCo      4.47   10.47    3407 0507 4007   ...   101007    ...            3707       ...       ...      46007Y  ...      ..
COLUMBIA        70  13.90    400C        4.0    00.9     is   to   20        73      67       26        36         4.4       90       17       14      .600
ECUAkDOR        72    4.5.   344        3.7   27.7C   4507 4207 1007  49             72        ...      36is                  ..      I        14      4,9757
GUYANA     ~~~~74    0.70    400C   5.8N  04.70    47   35    14        53A      920      39        33         4.0'     19        42               00
PARAGUAY        79    2.40    3200       0.5    17.9     57   15   26        St      as       24        29         1.9      45        15K      10      4.00
PERU            71  14.lo-   5200       4.5    24.00    gC   22    05        72      s0        36       3907       3.0      70        30       2307   12.00
VENEZUELA       73  01.10   12900       4,6   19.9       30o  260  350    ?7A        St       ...       33         2.4       ...      33       ..     12.63ty



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTD)                                    ANNEXI  PAGE 2
(JANUARY 9. 1976)
*    C NP,/, I S GNP  II TOTLUS   O  PUBLIC I             I       IPI1. jAV.PRI.                            I       ISEC  I 
a  IAPvAI SEOtEo::UT0IC  a  DCTON    gLTR      PSI, OCOMPLE- :iSTU% iSCH.TEACHiPROSRESS-i SEC. tSTU- i                            I
I  AT  s To IDU..  EXL7. IRECUeRTEINY   :gAC.Y    sENROLLITIDN           IDENTSiSALARY INjION RATE iEPAROLLjDEMTSsHIGHERi
*    MARMET`I  (PUSLICoDEVOTEDoEKP ALLOCATEDIl  RATE IRATID IRATE PORIPER  URELATION tFROM PRt.iRATIO tPER  IENROLL,
I pop, iPRICMS  EXP           TO)   I      TO:      ig(: OF  i NET  tPRI.SCMHdTEACH,  TO GNP/~ ITO SEC.  I NET  sTEACH- RATIO.
YRI(OO0) I CUSS)I ONL;)  a  EU. IPRI. SEC. 414.rADULV3)s (K)  ICYCLE(R)UER    o CAPITA  I K W                         (I)  tER    I tz)  I
I (1) I:  (2) I  (S)    a(4)  I            (52         (A)    I C?)  I        CS)   * (9) a  (ID)   I (31)      8(12)  1(13) aMRa)  a
ASIA AND OCEANIA
BANGLADESH;    13  72.SC        7CC     I.2   20.2........    25                   561        .        45        ...       ...      134      28
CHINA(rAIWAN) 13  jS.ICf  490C          1.3    14.0    26    41   22       at       96       94        40       14.0       84       Ss       26     35.00
INDIA           T1 563.SC    hiOC       2.bVY ..          .. .. .. 29               790      ...       43A       W.         .       25K      20AY   'aOAY
INDONESIA       13 t23.OC    12CC       3.8   11.0      bI   23   14       be      63        40        32        S.0;      1        12       1       2.0
IRAN            13  29.&C.   5oCC    3.3   12.6         506    3Be  12B    5o      77        7ISA      32        5.06      BOA      24       32      4s.32CY
IRAQ            72  10.1      370       6.7    16.3DR.... ...              26      AlY       *...     22         ...       ...      26xcy  26.       6.28CY
JDRDAN          73   2.6c   2701        7.0     8.6     52   is   23       59       911      76        35        5.00      54       sox    22        4.00
KOREA           73  32.3C   310C    2.9    19.3         64   26      a    92        97       90        53        3.00      71       5t       39      6.00
LEBANON         72   2.9      700       3.5    36.0     39   40   10    66          86       65        39        2.00      63       26U      25     23.00
MALAYVSIA       72  11.4      4 30      6.4   22.7D0.. ... ... 60                   904      ...       32        ...       *...     33X    26        ...
OMAN            72   0.6    930         2.3    3.6      96          *      20       24X      99        33        1.00      ...        0.4X   9       ...
PAKISTAN        T5  66.7c'   030C       1.6     6.2     45   25    Is    21         414      so        39        2.00      ...       174     1a      6.00
PHILIPPINES   74  39.0C   2201          2.5    14.9     73   IS   12    S?         104X      ...       34        35        ...      46X      ...   21 .00
SINGAPORE       12   2.1    1204        3.1W  26.2    44   32    35I    75A    1074          72        33        ...       99       47       24      6.25Y
THAILAND        13  36.5      22CC      3.oN  16.7      65     9   is    62         674      93C       32        3.OOU   91C        234      24      2.00
TURKEY          72  31.0      370       ...    13.00D ..                 .     . OSICY    ...          34DY      ...       ...      22KV    27DY   S.31BY
YE MEN          73   6.3      0 00      0.5     4.0     45P  21P  23P      30       15       la        36        5.00      is         24     39      0.056Y
YEMEN P.D.R.  72    1 .5.    3 00       2.3A  13.6      79   12            30       700      31        29       10.00      99        12x    20       0.0SAY
RNJIER OF COUNTRIESI                    67     61      61t   59   59      62      73        Al       72          38       41       73      69        67
RANOCI                    ~~~~~~~~~(0.S-  (3.6-  (25- (0-  Co.    CS-  clo-     (17.      (19.       (1.8-    (1-       (.4-    (9-     (.01-
9.0 )  32.3)  96 I 52)  40)    96)         1640)    99        66         25.0)   99)        75.0)  43)       23.0)
DUARTILEBIUPPER 1                    4.7   21.0       57   36   20       68      91        76       45          7       76        26      26       4.79
MEDIANs                  4.0    16.2      sC   27    Is    so        11        56       36          4       63        16      23       2.00
LOwER a                   3.0    34.0     42   11   11       20      46        25       33          3        as        a       39      0 .53
SYMSOLSa... DATUM UNA AILABL            0590o   EOERCRETPIE                                                    OURCES,
*  MAGNITUDE- NIL DR NEGLIGISLE 653973                           N.#DP....
?  QUESTIONABLE                     C81972                      P6INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNSII AND 2 WORLD BANK
*INCLUDES PART-TIRE STUDENTS Dm1913                            ONCENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                          ATLAS
COMOINED AITTH PRIMARY           Em1974                      RoMINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 34 ISRD MISSIONS
SUNGE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
T.EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATISTICAL
URPUSLIC ONLY                                                YEARBOOK
VaINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XSINCLUDtNG OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y.UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OFr VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSB-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE' HAVE BIEN COLLEcrED LARGELY BY THE SANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCESI THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS ANO WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
AiCCURACY OF THE DATAk. NEVERTHELE8S,3UCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PR3G6EBSIVELY ON THE 2CCA87ON OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MINDIt
CI)"EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL. EDUCATI3N AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALI
(2)PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVE. AND "SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICJLTURAL) I
CSI.LITERACY RATESB(COL46) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY :ENSUSES. IN MANYCOUMTRIEB THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATION$ AND IT IS
ODUATFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF OLITERATE- HAS BIEN FOLLOWED CONSISTEMOTLY,
(4)'PUBLIC E4PENDITURE IN EDUCATTON'CCOLB.3#4 AND S) REFER ro ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIESI
W5)ENRDLLMENT RATIDSO(COLS 7. It AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DAIACI,E. AOE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ZAIRE
RE&IONS: POPULATIONS, AREAS, POPULATION DENSITIES, AND ENROLLMENTS IN PRIMARY AND TEACHER-TRAINING  SCHDOLS
Primary-
Primary-   Teacher-
Total            PopUation  Primary-  Primry        Teacher-   Training
Total               Popelation   School    Enrol-    Training  harollenbt
Popu-       Area      Density    Ehrol-    lufet        Enrol-   Per 10,000
Administrative Division        PoPulation    lation                  +I/KM2)    lments    Ratioat/  Klmento   Population
k1 973)          -l (n9737                     (1973)   (1 9737)      1973) j    r97r
Region of Kinshasa              1,420,000       6.1         2,000      710       285,000    122         5,600       39
Region of Bas-Zaire             1,630,000       7.0        62,000       26       301,000    112         6,800       42
Region of Bandundu              2,800,000      12.0       296,000        9       428,000     93         5,850       21
Region of Equateur              2,620,000      11.2       403,000        7       269,000     63         4,050       15
Region of Haut-Zaire            3,620,000      15.5       503,000        7       490,000     83         7,300       20
Region of Kivu                  3,620,000      1 5.5      257,000       14       434,ooo     73         4,350       12
Region of Shaba                 2,970,000      12.7       497,000        6       438,000     90         6,450       22
Region of Kasai Oriental        2,030,000       8.7       168,000       12       378,000    113        10,550       52
Region of Kasai Occidental      2,640,000      11.3       157,000       17       269,000     62        14400        17
Zaire                     23,350,000     100.0     2,345,000       10     3,290,000     86        55.350       24
,j  Primary Enrollments as % of 6-11 age group
SOURCE: Administrative Census, 1970; Statistical Yearbook of the DNE, 1972-73; Bank Group Staff Population
Estimates.
September 1975



ZAIRE
ESTIMATED EMPLOYMENT BY SECTOR, 1970-1990
(In thousands)
Assumed            Assumed           Assumed
Av. An. %  Av. An.              Av. An.            Av. An.
Growth     Growth              Growth            Growth
1970              1973        70-73       73-75      1975    75-80    1980    80-90    1990
Primary Sector
Traditional Agriculture                                2,300             2,430          1.97,                                           0.6%       2,600
Plantation Agriculture                                   269.5              270         0  %                                            6.8%       1.000
Subtotal                                          2,569.5           2,700         1.77;       1.77.    2,800    1.7%    3,000   1.77         3,600
Secondary Sector
Mining                                                    59.8               66.5       3.67.
Industry (Large & Medium Scale)                          117.0              150.3       8.7%
/2
Industry (Small Scale)                                    23.0               29.6       8.8%
Construction                                              19.5               19.7       0.37.
Subtotal                                           219.3              266.1       6.7%       6.7.         300    6.5%       415   6.3%         760
Tertiary Sector
Electricity, Gas, Water                                    6.2                7.3       5.67.
iransport & Communications                                70.0               71.0       0.52
Finance, Banking, Insurance                                5.2                5.6       2.5%
Education A                                               75.6               98.1       9.1%
(4
Government (except Education)                            136.1              106.0      -8.07.
Private Services /5                                       47.1               75.8      17.1%
Commerce A                                               105.6              170.1      17.2%
Subtotal                                           445.8              533.9       6.27        6.17.       600    5.57;       785   5.5%      1,340
TOTAL                                                 1,234.6             3,500.0       2.7%       2.87.     3,700    2.6%    4,200   3.1%         5,700
/1   1968 estimates.
/2   Including owner-workers.
/3   Including small-scale construction enterprises.
/4   Excluding retired personnel and fellowship holders.
/5   Including self-employment, but excluding part-time, casual, and non-wage labor.
/6   Including self-employment, but excluding women engaged in part-time retail trade.
/7   15% of population.
/8   1970-1975.
/9   1970-1990.
SOURCE: Bank Group Staff Estimates
December 1975



ANNtt 4
ZAIRE
AGFaCULTURAL MANPOWER - NEDS AND SUPPI, 1973-1990
1         2             3           4             5            6            7
sti3ated
Vntage    Eti mted
Estimated   kpnaicn    on  the          Total                      Needs
Stock in   need in       Ned        Stock of       Needs      R             not met
1973       1990        (2-1)       1973/1        (3+4)        &TPlP  L2  t6'3
University Graduates
1. Agriculture                      30          900         870           12           882          958        - 76
2.  Livestock and Veterinary        14          120         106            6           112         424         -312
3. Forestry                          8          120         112            3           115         158         - 43
Technicians
L!
1.  Agricultural                   651        4,500       3,849          263        4,112        3,900          212
2.  Livestock                      106          600         494           43           537          745L       -208
3. Forestry                         11          600          589           4           593          552          41
rield Jasisxtnta
1. Agricultural                  3,402       18,000      14,598        1,376        15,974
2.  Livestock                    1,052        2,400       1,348          426         1,774
3. Forestry                        491        2,400       1,909          199         2,108
t1 Estimated at 3% per year.
72   Including an annual loss estimated at 3% per year.
/3   Minus sign indicates surplus of supply over needs.
|4   Including both the 3-year "gradue" course and the 5-year "Ingenieur Agronome" course.
|5   The output of agricultural graduates is estimated at 20 per year through 1985 and 170 per year thereafter
(due to planned future expansion of facilities).
|6   The output of Veterinary Faculty is estimated at 4 graduates per year in 1973 and 1974, at 10 per year
in 1975 and 1976, at 30 per year, 1977 through 1982, and at 40 per year, 1983 through 1990.
7   Estimated at 17 graduates per year, 1973 through 1977, and 10 per year, 1978 through 1990.
|8   Estimated as follows:
1973 - 196 graduates
1974 -239 
1975 - 314     "
1976 -237      "
1977 - 245     "
1978 -260
1979 -295
1980 through 1990 - 300 graduates per year.  This series reflects the expansion or closing of various
schools, as well as their transformation into schools of other sorts. It also assumes that the project-
assisted schools will begin to graduate technicians in 1980.
L   Estimated as follows:
1973 through 1977 - 45 graduates per year
1978   and   1979 - 40 graduates per year
1980 through 1990 - 60 graduates per year.
This series reflects the expansion or closing of various schools as well as their transformation into
schools of other sorts. It also assumes that the project-assisted schools will begin to graduate
technicians in 1980.
ZW   Estimated at no graduates until 1980, when reoriented existing schools will
begin to graduate 60 technicians per year.
/11 A small part of this need will be supplied by the graduates of lower secondary schools. It is assumed,
however, that such schools will gradually be phased out and that the major portion of the projected need
will be met through the training of local farmers by the technicians. Since the ratio of auxiliaries to
technicians is 4 to 1, it is believed that this goal should be easiLv reached.
SouRCEt Bank Group staff Etimates
December 1975



ZAI RE
GDP, GOVERNNENT EXPENDITURES, AND EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION AND AGRICULTURE, 1968-1990
(Millions of Zaires, 1968-1969 Constant Prices)
Averape Growth Rates per Annum
1968-   1973-   1980-   1985-
1968    1969    1970      1971      1972      1973          1980         1985        1990        1973    1980    1985    1990
1.   GDP                                                811.7   884.5   977.3   1,030.1   1,030.7  1,135.5          1,686.4     2,166.3      2,896.4       6.9     5.8      5.1     6.0
/1
11. Total Government Expenditures                       244.4   272.4   340.5       362.4     355.7    388.5                                               9.7
/1
A.    Capital Expenditures                          46,9    64.0    80.3        90.6     100.8   128.4                                               22.4
/I
B.    Recurrent Expenditures                       197.5   208.4   260.2       271.8     254.9    260.1          421.6       541.6        724.1       5,7     7.1      5.1     6.0
-  as % of GDP                                24.3    23.6    26.6       26.4      24.3    22.9            25           25           25
/2
III. General Budget Expenditures
/2
A.    Total                                        207.7   240.7   301.0       310.2     292.9    310.4                                               8.4
B.    Capital Expenditures                          27.8    48.8    58.7        62.2      61.0     58.7                                              16.1
/2
C.   Recurrent Expenditures                        179.9   191.9   242.3       248.0     231.9    251.7          387.9       498.2        666.2       6.9     6.4      5.1     6.0
-  as 7. of I                                 22.2    21.7    24.8       24.1      22.1      22.2          23           23           23
- ias % of IIB                                91.1    92.1    93.1       91.2      91.0    96.8            92           92           92
/2
IV.  Dept. oft NHt-onal EBductiznxpe-diLufes
/2
A.    Total                                         29.8    44.1    50.6        57.5      54.9    43.3                                                7.8
-  as % of IIIA                               14.3    18.3    16.8       18.5       18.7    13.9
/2
B.    Capital Expenditures                           1.8      0.8     1.6       0.4        0.7      0.9                                             -12.9
/2
C.    Recurrent Expenditures                        28.0    43.3    49.0       57.1       54.2     42.4           84.3        108.3       144.8       8.7    10.3      5.1     6.0
-  as % of I                                   3.4     4.9      5.0       5.5       5.2       3.7           5            5            5
-  as % of IIIC                               15.6    22.6    20.2       23.0      23.4      16.8          21.7         21.7         21.7
/2
V.   Dept. of Agriculture Expenditures
/2
A.    Total                                          2.6      5.1     3.0        4.1       2.3      6,0                                              18.2
-  as % of IIIA                                1.3     2.1      1.0       1.3       0.8       1.9
/2
B.    Capital Expenditures                           2.0      3.4     1.6        1.8       1.3      1.2                                              -9.7
C.    Recurrent Expenditures                         0.6      1.7     1.4        2.3       1.0      4.8                                    86.9      51.5                     18.6
-  as % of I                                   0.1     0.2      0.1       0.2        0.1      0.4                                     3
-  as % of IIIC                                0.3     0.9     0.6        0.9       0.4       1.9                                    13
/1   Including foreign assistance.
T7   Not including foreign assistance.
/3   1973-1990
SOURCE: Budgete, National Accounts, and Bank Group Staff Estimates
January 1976



ANNEX 6
ZAIRE
BUDGETAIY IMPLICATIONS OF AN ENLARGED AGRICULTURAL SERVICE
1973            1990
i/
I.    GDP                                                 1,3.             2,1896.4
II.   % of GDP spent on Dept. of Agriculture                  o.4%             3.0%
recurrent expenditures
III.  Dept. of Agriculture recurrent expenditures             4.8             86.9
IV.   Total estimated personnel expenses /1                   2.2             20.1
- as % of III                                          45.8%           23.1%
A. No. of university graduates                         52           1,140  a-
Median salary/2                                  1,060.8         1,753.3
Total expenditureLi                                  0.1             2.0
B. No. of technicians                                 768           5,700  a
Median salaryL2                                    532.8           880.6
Total expenditureL                                   o.4              5.0
C. No. of Field Assistants                          4,945          22,800  a
Median salary/2                                    3h6.8            573.2
Total expenditureLi                                  1.7             13.1
V.    No. of farmers                                  2,569,500        3,600,000
VI.   Farmers/technician                                  3,346              632
VII.  FarmerE/field assistant                               520              158
ll    In millions of constant 1968-1969 Zaires.
Assumes that each is married with two children.
Salaries are allowed to rise at 3% per annum in real terms, or as
fast as GDP per capita.
Calculated at ratio of 4 field assistants per technician.
SOURCE: Bank Group Staff Estimates
September 1975



ANNEX 7
Z A I R E
IMPLICATIONS OF 1990 GOVERNMENT PRIMARY ENROLLMENT TARGETS
ACTUAL                  PROJECTED
School Year
1971172                    1990
GDP                                    1,043.8                   2,896.4
% of GDP spent on National
Education recurrent expenditures           5.3                       5.0
National Education recurrent
expenditures Li                           55.1                     144.8
% af National Education recurrent                                      /2
expenditures devoted to primary           54                        55-
Recurrent expenditures on
primary education Li                      29.8                      79.6
Unit recurrent cost per
primary pupil-year /3                       9.6                      10.8
'5
Primary Enrollment (000s)              3,097                     7,350
- as % of estimated
6-11 age group                         84                       116
- as
-  as % of estimated
6-12 age group                         74                       102
- as 7% of estimated
7-15 age group                         62                        86
Alt. 1           Alt. 2
Pupil/teacher ratio                       44              -44               40
/4
No. of teachers (000s)                     70.3           167.0            183.8
- of which:
Unqualified (000s)                     57.8 (82%)        0                0
D4 (000s)                              11.3 (16%)    126.9 (76%)        179.2 (97%)
D6 (000s)                               1.2 ( 2%)      40.1 (24%)         4.6 ( 3%)
/1 In millions of Zaires, 1968-69 constant prices.
2  90% of this sum is assumed to be available for salaries.
L3 In Zaires, 1968-69 constant prices.
/4 Official and government-subsidized schools only.
/5 Department of National Education projections.
SOURCE: Bank Group Staff Estimates
January 1976



ZAIRE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ASSISTED PRIMARY SCHDOLS - ALTERNATIVE PROJECTIONS OF TEACHER NEEDS, 1972-1990
1972                   1990                    D4 Teacher Needs           Total Needs
Actual                Proiected             Expansion   Replacement          1972-1990        Annual Needs       Output (1972)
Primary Enrollment                                     3,097,000              7.350,000 /1
I. Alternative 1:  Constant Pupil/Teacher Ratio
Pupil/Teacher Ratio                                           44                      44
Teachers Needed                                           70,300                 167,000
2% v.a. Teacher Loss Rate
Unqualified Teachers                                  57,800  (82%)                0
D4 Teachers                                           11,300  (16%)         126,900  (76%)         115,600        24,900           140,500             7,800             2,500
D6 Teachers                                            1,200  ( 2%)          40,100  (24%)
3% o.a. Teacher Loss Rate
Unqualified Teachers                                  57,800  (82%)                0
D4 Teachers                                           11,300  (16%)          126,900  (76%)        115,600        37,300           152,900              8,500            2,300
D6 Teachers                                            1,200  ( 2%)          40,100  (24%)
II.  Alternative 2:  Lowered Pupil/Teacher Ratio
Pupil/Teacher Ratio                                       44                      40
Teachers Needed                                       70,300                 183,800
2% p.a. Teacher Loss Rate
Unqualified Teachers                                  57,800  (82%)                0
D4 Teachers                                           11,300  (16%)          179,200  (97%)        167,900        34,300           202,200             11,200            2,5W
D6 Teachers                                            1,200  ( 2%)            4,600  ( 3%)
3% v.a. Teacher Loss Rate                                                              0
Unqualified Teachers                                  57,800  (82%)                0
D4 Teachers                                           11,300  (16%)          179,200  (97%)        167,900        51,400           219,300             12,200            2,500
D6 Teachers                                            1,200  ( 2%)            4,600  ( 3%)
Li Department of National Education projection
SOURCE: Bank Group Staff Estimates based on Annex 7
January 1976



ANNEX 9
ZAIRE - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CVPACITIES AND TEACHING-STAFF REQUIREMENTS OF THE PROJECT SCHOOLS
Student       Boarding   Teaching        Staff
Places         Places       Staff        Houses
Existing/New Existing/New Required Existing/New
E N V R s
(1)  Bulungu                     -      320      -     240      18          -      6
Practice School                   -     480      -        -     13           -     -
(2)  Butembo                     -      320      -     240      18          -      6
Practice School                   -     480      -        -     13           -     -
(3)  Gemena                      -      320      -     240      18          -      6
Practice School                   -     480      -        -      13          -     -
(4)  Isiro                       -      320      -     240      18          -      6
Practice School                   -     480      -        -     13           -     -
(5)  Miabi                       -      320      -     240      18          -      6
Practice School                   -     480      -        -      13          -     -
iI T A s
(a) Agricultural
(1)  Gombe Matadi              230             230        -     15         11      4
(2)  Isiro                     230             230        -     15          9      -
(3)  Mondongo                  230             150       80     15         10      5
(4)  Tshibashi                 200       30   150        80     15         15      -
(b) Agriculture/Livestock
(5)  Butembo                   230             230        -     15         15      -
(6)  Gandajika                 230             230        -     15           3     6
I E LA
Bengamisa                    210             210        -     14         18      -
September 1975



s0~~~ ~ ~ ~ oo~  2o o2                                     o o o o                           0     
"8    o  _             -<                    Rt4-                                     ag        z  ;                                                   l     t      a<
H~~~ _                                  - r0         00                          -                                    -  o  0     0   K     
  4   g   S  uz g   2  2      3i0 0o0                                 0  0'8  0                                               0
2~~~    5;  S                                                                                                                           g . ~~~~~2 
t   o     "  S         o $  o  w       s  s 0  0  0  0E0i0e0_0                         0      0      0_0
o~~~~~8                                                        (                      8222   iSeWa -Ea~|     



Z A I R E
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SChEDULE 1/
QUARTERS                   1    2    3    4    5    6             8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24
Construction
Rural Teacher Training Colleges   ###   ###  4**  ***  ***  ***  *++  +$$  $$=  ==o  ooo  xxx  xxx  xxx  XXX  Xxx  Xxx  xxx  xzx  xxx  wv    wv  ww  Xvv
Technical Agricultural Institutes and
Higher Institute of Agriculture
Phase I   -  2 Institutes                 #  #*   ***  ***  ***  *++  +$$  $$' .-o  000  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  vvv  vw X    vv  vwv
Phase II  -  5 Institutes b                     *  4L#  ***  ***  ***  ***  +++  $$  =    000  xxx  Xxx  xxx  xxx  Xxx  XXX  XXx  Xxx  vvV  VVV  VVV  VVw
Furniture                                             **  ***  *       +   $$$        xxx  xxx  xXx  Xxx  xxx  xxX  xXx  zzz  zzz  zzz  zzz  zzv  vw   wv
Instructional Equipment                               **  a**  ***  ***  *++  4$$  $==  =xx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  zzz  zzz  zzz  zzz  zzz  zzz  vvv  vwv
Technical Assistance
Rural Teacher Training Colleges
Specialists                   120  /m                                                                                               1.5   1 5   19   1S   15   15   15   15
Fellowships                   120 m/m                                                                                               15   15   15   15   15   15   l5   15
Agricultural Technician
Training Institutes and Higher
Tnstitute of Agricultural Studies
Headquarters Specialists    72 m/sii                             6    6    6    6    6    6    6    6    6    6    6    6
Field Specialists             168 m/|                                                                                               21   21   21   21   21,  21   21   21
Fellowships                   346 ms/r    3    3    3    3                                                   84   84   84   84
|Project Administration                                                                                                                                                      3    3
Construction Supervisor        48 ir/s                                                  3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3
Clerks of Works               180 si/|                                                      15   15   15   15   15   15   15   15   15   15    6    6    6    6    6
Procurement Specialist         48 m/m    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3
1/  ro. Credit effective date
Legend:    i#  Selection and Surveys of Sites                                     -  Review of Bids and Recormendation of Award                       s/n  Men Months
*  Design and Construction Document Stage                           o  Contract Award and Mobilization
+  Review of Design and Construction Documents                       x  Construction or Manufacturing Phase
S  Tender Period                                                    v  Warranty Period
z Delivery of Furniture and Equipment
SOURCE: Bank Group Staff Estimates
September 1975



ANNEX L.
Z A I R E
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$000's)
Accumulated               Undisbursed
Quarter .1/         Disbursement              Disbursement                 Balance
1                                                                     21,000
2                      -                         -                    21,000
3                   150                        150                     20,850
4                    150                       300                     20,700
5                   100                        400                    20.600
6                    100                       500                     20.500
7                    100                       600                     20,400
8                    150                       750                     20,250
9                    150                       900                     20,100
10                    150                     1,050                    19,950
11                    150                     1,200                    19,800
12                    250                     1,450                     19,550
13                  1,200                     2,650                     18,350
14                 1,600                      4,250                     16,750
15                  1 200                     5,450                     15,550
16                  1,100                     6,550                     14,450
17                  1,200                     7,750                     13,250
18                  1,700                     9,450                     11,550
19                  2,950                    12,400                      8,600
20                  2,700                    15,100                      5,900
21                  2,400                    17,500                      3X500
22                  1,000                    18,500                      2,500
23                    500                    19,000                      2,500
24                    300                    19,300                      1,700
25                    600                    19,900                      1,100
26                  1,100                    21 000
1/ Starting from date of credit effectiveness
January 1976






ZAIRE
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1972/73
Enrollment as
GRADE                                                             BOYS                                                                                GIRLS                                                        % of age groop
HIGHER
19                                                                                                    49        1
His   GH                                                                                          52        1_
17                                             Total eorollment   r     329000 (38% girls)           340        9
Secoedaty 325,000 125% q,4s)
16                                                              H,ghee 17.000 (8% g.rls)            1,550      68                                                                                                        1%
15                                                                                                  2,570      194
14                                                                                                  3,670      344
1 3                                                                                                  5.840     700
SECONDARY
& VOCATIONAL
12                                                                                                 11,700    1,900                                                                                                 7
11                                                                                                 17,900     3,520
10                                                                                               239002        6,540
10%
9                                                                                             35,200           12,300
s 64,200                                                                                                         21,200
7                                                                                     90,300                       36,500
PRIMARY
6                                                                       [13,000                                    83-000    _                                                                                      _
5                                                                FE249,000                                              116,000
4                                                           292,000                                                            162,0001            .                                                                    66
3                                               363000,00
2                       _                406,000                                                                                                   284,000
508,000                                                                                                                                     3S7,000
500,000         400,000          300,000          200,000          100,000             0             100,000         200.000           300,000          400,000          500,000
World Bank-9748






ZAIRE
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
1973
PRIMARY                                               SECONDARY & VOCATIONAL                                                   HIGHER
H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDICINE
1H 2            3        4       5        6VETERINARY MEDICINE
zc
to labor Ioc                                                                                                                              AGRICULTURE f
(i)  e-arirrations admi-rster-d by school                                                                                                                                                                            H
(iOnt,on I ecamloatlon
1o      2       3s 4} {CSCIENCE, EDUCATION, LETTERS, LAW, THEOLOGY
LONG
CYCLE )
|GENERAL. ARTS & SCIENCES               |
SENIOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
ORIENTATION        SENIOR PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING                                                    ENGINEERING. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
TEACHER TRAINING
WE   EODARY TEACHER TRAINING                        o
MMERCE
SHORT        _       _       _          JUNIOR TECHNICIAN TRAINING
CYCLE   _        3      _               JUNIOR PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
POST-PRIMARY COURSES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING IN CRAFTS &
VCJUNIOR PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
GRADE   1         2        3       4       5        6               7        8           9       10           11      12           13      14       15      16       17       18      19
AGE       7       8        9      10       11      12               13      14           15      16           17      18           19      20      21       22       23      74      25
1/ The short cycle in being replaced by post-rimary courses In rew schools.
2/ In some cases, secondarv school stodents take a sevnsrh year to acqn to
professional training as teathers ot to complete entrance requiremencs fSoc higher edocation.                                                                                                               itorld B:   .749
3/ This secanth year has been eliminated si.ce 1973.






| * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gemeno                                                                                              OVAZ   W HAUT- UELE /
a   =gWtTgS3R3etWn5R^E6 ins:::uineibi>-ir        1 o'1      Mondongo                                                                 .
,   :]  ;   :. ,;  _j; ; r r       UBANGI                                                                           _      r     :  i
___ _Z.N t | : 0;1,, ---" H s~~~~~~~~~A  UT 'I,Z  ,l R E 
~~~~~~~~m 'J                                                                                           0fh[,X? ,.0.d4a r tX  CATU ,  isangoni   ., ,
a  r,      [r  ,-;-,SLtEr A0 jriri LIw   rMan;kg                                                                                Bueb*uew,r,
g  Eg  W~~~~~~~~~~~~2m1r    ,r06ELst   *tIttLlIEr /  > J52iopOtIsL  < 
l 'r glnn~~~~~~~~~~~~St'l   ]1EX:U:1vNklVU'gAG
s  ......   '.le('LMirS  -- r;ro . 2 S 7 A ................  t i\ ( 6L'N
Et~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~6 K-.i-in T#  4   ) ifii0,   ,;    5\r               SUP                                              J[-D#U-
4V                        11 ,       G 4o/M/V-\~a  A$i ;
l mi09; f gf', T / ( g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUD KIVU 4
;4 Mi:: ,r'0- lit: ~~~~~~~ Ji 2 e I Sonhuru~~~~ A    M SANKR     ir 
kT-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               <4
0 g > CU ) X Y Kanan>v/ getA B/NDA 9g \ \ jtge7t :. I u n 
|Actlantic     ,rwkz,vi              "4      ,t       KWANGC                                                                 T  NGANiiab    daia < ? \8    tKAia;f 
|Oce a  r>t v s1  !  
;;>    t    0, u ,; w   ; iX >  2,r;  i~              /_ t_ 1     HAUT- LOMAMt             ,      ,                       i 
= 2 0 0       SMphtV~ ~~~~~~~~~~i MgI'fm;smliaitX                                                                                                 , rSA..
CulN ^ 4, r-< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHABAX 
1"''~~RPULI   x i,.



