0
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 624-ZR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 28, 1976
-0


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1976, between the REPUBLIC OF
ZAIRE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all, the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Project Unit" means the Project Unit established in
the Borrower's Department of National Education pursuant to the
Development Credit Agreement (Education Project) dated December 17,
1971 between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿*                            -3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-one. million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for ex-
penditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services (other than consultants' services) for the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a ser-
vice charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on eAch June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1986, and ending December 15,
2025, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Unit with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilitiz3, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) In order to strengthen the Project Unit, the Borrower
shall (i) employ full-time within one year from the date of this
Agreement, a procurement specialist and an accountant acceptable
to the Association, (ii) at times recommended by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 hereof, employ full-time in the Proj-
ect Unit but assigned to the Department of Public Works a con-
struction supervisor and five clerks of works, and (iii) employ
such other experts in the Project Unit as the Borrower and the
Association shall agree are necessary for the implementation and
administration of the Project,
(c) In order to ensure the efficient initial operation of
the institutions included in Parts A and B of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ such qualified specialist teachers for such
neriods of time as shall be agreed by the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the design
of civil works, preparation of tender documents, analysis of bids,


﻿-6-
supervision of construction and in carrying out Part E of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ architectural, engineering
or other consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications there-
of or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in


﻿()                                    -7-
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
or rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that (i) each in-
stitution included in Part A of the Project be provided with at
least 10 ha of farming land, (ii) 750 ha of land be transferred
to the Agricultural Technician Training Institute at Gandajika
for livestock production purposes and (iii) a forest concession
of between 5,000 and 10,000 ha be made available by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture to the Higher Institute of Agricultural
Studies at Bengamisa.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the op-
erations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. By December 31, 1976 or by such later date
as the Association may agree, the Borrower shall select the
sites for the three Rural Primary Teacher Training Institutes,
which, together with those included in Part A of the Project,
will provide one such Institute for each Region.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (i) request, as necessary,
assistance from bilateral sources in staffing the institutions
included in Parts A and B of the Project and (ii) provide board-
ing scholarships for needy students in such institutions.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps neces-
sary to ensure the employment of the graduates of the institu-
tions included in Part B of the Project.
(b) Within two years from the date of this Agreement, or
such longer period as the Association may agree, the Borrower
shall furnish the Association with a plan showing the Borrower's
forecasts of how such graduates are likely to be employed.


﻿*)                                     -9-
Section 4.05. In order to ensure coordination and cooperation
in the field of agriculture among the Departments of Agriculture
and of National Education, other organizations concerned with agri-
culture and the private sector, the Borrower shall establish, with-
in one year from the date of this Agreement or such longer period
as the Association shall determine, a national committee for agri-
cultural education and training, comprising high-level representa-
tives from such Departments and from the Office of the President,
with such powers and duties as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the institutions
included in the Project be maintained and be staffed at all times
with qualified and experienced personnel.
Section 4.07. Within one year from the date of this Agreement
or such longer period as the Association shall determine, the
Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association a Plan of
Action for the development of the Borrower's system of primary and
basic education which shall include a program for the deployment
and utilization of the teachers trained in the institutions in-
cluded in Part A of the Project.
Section 4.08. (a) Within two years from the date of this
Agreement, or such longer period as the Association shall deter-
mine, the Borrower shall, after consultation with the Association
and on the basis of the current studies, establish new procedures
for the physical maintenance of its schools and for the strengthen-
ing of financial and administrative control in the school system.


﻿-10-
(b) The Borrower shall review from time to time with the
Association said procedures and their effectiveness with a view
to amending them as may prove necessary.


﻿*                           -111-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement.within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has informed the Associa-
tion of the arrangements made to ensure the availability, when
and in the amounts required by the schedule of implementation
of the Project, of the funds in zaires necessary for the
purpose.
Section 5.02. The date March 31, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Commissioner of State responsible for
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Boite Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                     Telex:
DENFIN                             298 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:    440098 (ITT),
248423 (RCA) or
INDEVAS                                 64145 (WUI)
Washington, D.C.
01


﻿-13-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By /s/ Asal B. Idzumbuir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Arrica
01


﻿-14                                       0
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Construction,              11,000,000
Parts A & B of
the Project
(a) Civil works                             14%
(b) Construction                            100% of foreign
materials direct-                       expenditures
ly imported
(c) Local transporta-                       40%
tion of construc-
tion materials
(2) Furniture and               4,000,000
Equipment
(a) Directly imported                       100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Locally manufac-                        90%
tured (ex-factory
cost)
(c) Imported, purchased                     55%
locally


﻿*  15-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(d) Local trans-                            40%
portation
(3) Consultants' Ser-            900,000          100% of foreign
vices (Architec-                             expenditures or
tural and Engi-                              40% of local
neering; Parts A                             expenditures
and B of the Proj-
ect)
(4) Specialist Teachers        1,300,000         100% of foreign
and Fellowships                              expenditures
(Parts A, B and C
of the Project)
(5) Project Unit                                 100% of foreign
expenditures or
40% of local
expenditures
(a) Operating               900,000
costs; studies
(Parts D and E
of the Project)
(b) Building con-           800,000
struction and
procurement
specialists
(6) Unallocated                2,100,000
TOTAL     21,000,000


﻿-16                                    0
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000 in respect of
Categories (3) and (5) on account of expenditures incurred prior to
such date but after September 1, 1975.


﻿-17-
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursemont percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 18- -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to provide facilities for training
rural primary teachers and agricultural technicians. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A    The construction, equipping, and furnishing of five
new institutes for the training of rural primary
teachers, each with a new primary school for prac-
tice teaching, located near Bulungu, Butembo, Gemena,
Isiro and Miyabi and the initial operation thereof
employing specialist teachers.
Part B    The rehabilitation, repair, equipping and furnishing
of the six institutes for training agricultural tech-
nicians located near Gombe-Matadi, Isiro, Mondongo,
Tshibashi, Butembo, Gandajika, and of the Higher
Institute of Agricultural Studies at Bengamisa and
the initial operation thereof employing specialist
teachers.
Part C    Fellowship Program:
1.   About 10 man-years of fellowships to aid the
efficient functioning of the institutes con-
structed under Part A above; and


﻿- 19 -
2.   About 29 man-years of fellowships to aid the
efficient functioning of the institutes reha-
bilitated under Part B above.
Part D    The evaluation of the new programs promoted in the
institutes for the training of rural primary teach-
ers and in the institutes for the training of agri-
cultural technicians, utilizing about 2 man-years
of consultants' services.
Part E    The carrying out of preinvestment studies in pre-
paration for a further education project and of
studies designed to aid the Department of National
Education in increasing its financial and adminis-
trative control over the school system.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Items of construction materials, furniture and equipment
shall insofar as practicable be grouped in packages to encourage
competition and permit bulk procurement. Prior to such procure-
ment, the Borrower shall prepare master lists of such groupings
and, together with the related designs, specifications and draft
tender documents, shall furnish them to the Association for its
approval.
3.   Tender documents for construction contracts shall invite
bids for one or more institutions or for components of each in-
stitution, as technically appropriate.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the civil works for the rehabilitation and
repair of the institutions under Part B of the Project as well
as those for the procurement of furniture and equipment packages


﻿*  21-
estimated at less than $50,000 equivalent, may be awarded fol-
lowing competitive bidding advertised only locally following
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) cus-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be ex-
cluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Zaire may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:


﻿-22-
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Zaire if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Zaire equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in Zaire.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿-23-
such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works;
Preferences for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) ,f the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit
Agreement and to which paragraph A.1 of this Schedule 3 applies,
the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domes-
tic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the follow-
ing provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be requirLd to submit together with
their bids, such information, including details of ownership, as
shall be required to determine whether, according to the classi-
fication established by the Borrower and accepted by the Associa-
tion, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the pre-
ference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:


﻿-24-
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids re-
ceived under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and fina2
contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, toge-
ther with a description of the advertising procedures to be fol-
lowed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to


﻿- 25 -
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommen-
dations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract sh,- ',l not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommen-
dations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it deter-
mines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


